---
title: "LL 1-2025: TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ADD A NEW CHAPTER 186 EN"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2025-01-23
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 1-2025: TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ADD A NEW CHAPTER 186 EN"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-01-23
---

Local Law 1-2025
Filed: 2025-01-23
TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ADD A NEW CHAPTER 186 ENTITLED RENTAL HOUSING AND TO ADD ARTICLE 1 "GOOD CAUSE EVICTION" THERETO

New York State Department of State

Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Wastiington Avenue

Local Law Filing

J:'ZZT.°Z

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FIL'^D
•County

DCity

DTown

^Village

8TATE

REOORDS

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

^

of the year 2 0 2 5 ^ ^ — .

_

Local Law No.

01

n r / T r " ^>*^

A local law

AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON- HUDSON TO ADD
ilnsBtt Title)

A NEW CHAPTER 186 ENTITLED RENTAL HOUSING AND TO
ADD ARTICLE I "GOOD CAUSE EVICTION" THERETO

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

DCity

DTown

(XjVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local tegislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ^
the (County)(Clty)(Town){Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

on January 08

of 2 0 ^ ^
^^j,y ^^^^^^

of

2 0 2 5 _ , in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by locai legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of
was duly passed by the
—
(Name of Legislative Body)

on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer )

on

3.

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

„_

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legisiative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of 20

20_

- and was (approved)(not approved)

.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as iocal law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20__

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, In accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New Yortc, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20_^
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(if any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that 1 have compared the preceding local law with the onginal on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally^adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
by local legisiative body
(Seai)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

/^V^^-^S"

Page ** of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 01-2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ONHUDSON TO ADD A NEW CHAPTER 186 ENTITLED RENTAL HOUSING AND TO
ADD A R T I C L E I "GOOD CAUSE EVICTION" THERETO
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows;
Section One. There is hereby added to the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson a new
Chapter 186 entitled "Rental Housing".
Section Two. Chapter 186, Rental Housing, of the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
Article I entitled "Good Cause Eviction" is hereby added to read as follows:
Article I; Good Cause Eviction
§ 186-1. Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to establish good cause eviction protections in the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Article 6-A ofthe
Real Property Law of the State of New York.
§ 186-2. Protections established.
A. Except as otherwise provided in this Article, all provisions set forth in Article 6A of the Real Property Law and any amendments thereto are hereby adopted by
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
B. Pursuant to Section 213(2)(a) of the Real Property Law, for the purposes of this
Article and notwithstanding any default provision to the contrary, any unit on or
within a housing accommodation shall be exempt from the provisions of this
Article i f such unit has a monthly rent above 345% of fair market rent, as
calculated as provided in Article 6-A of the Real Property Law.
C. Pursuant to Section 213(2)(b) ofthe Real Property Law, for the purposes ofthis
Article and notwithstanding any default provision to the contrary, the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson defines "small landlord" to mean a landlord of no more than
one unit anywhere in the state of New York.
D. This Article shall be enforceable as set forth in Article 6-A of the Real Property
Law.
Section Three. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent

portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Four. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect inunediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #1-2025
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson seeks to amend the Code of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson by adding a new Chapter 186 entitled "Rental Housing" to
implement the provisions of the Good Cause Eviction Law enacted by the State of New
York; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 15 of2024 was drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was opened and closed on January 8, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 15 of 2024, adding a new Chapter 186 entitled
"Rental Housing" to the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to implement the
provisions of the Good Cause Eviction Law enacted by the State of New York, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 1 of 2025.
Dated: January 8, 2025

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the OS'*' of January 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
ofthe saidV4fege-this-l^ day of January 2025.

.^.P^^
VillageClerk'U
(Seal) ' -


