---
title: "LL 19-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 204 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING SE"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2023-11-29
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 19-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 204 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING SE"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-11-29
---

Local Law 19-2023
Filed: 2023-11-29
TO AMEND CHAPTER 204 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING SENIOR CITIZENS TAX EXEMPTION

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminatedarid do not use
Italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
STATE RECORDS
•County

nCity

•Town

|XjViliage

NOV 2 d 2023

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.
A local law

DEPARTMENT OF STATF

of the year 2023

19

TO AMEND CHAPTER 204 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON(Insert Title)

ON-HUDSON REGARDING SENIOR CITIZENS TAX EXEMPTION

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

QCity

GTown

[XlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW 19 OF 2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 204 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTONON-HUDSON REGARDING SENIOR CITIZENS TAX EXEMPTION
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, §204-16
Income eligibility, is hereby amended to read as follows:
§204-16 Income eligibility.
In order to be eligible to apply for a partial exemption in the amount of 50% ofthe assessed
valuation, the income ofthe owner or the combined income of the owners must not exceed
$50,000 from all sources as set forth in such § 467, as amended, for the second-latest
calendar year prior to the date that the application is filed. Where title is vested in one
spouse, the combined income may not exceed such sum. Any such income shall be offset
by all medical and prescription drug expenses actually paid which were not reimbursed or
paid for by insurance.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in frill force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

{Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 1 ^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
,
Village Board of Trustees
on November 13
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^-^
of
y^as (j^ly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive OfTicer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 2 0 _ _ _ _ of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on .

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

- and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20^

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

^
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of

was duly passed by the
20_

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20^

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
bfe none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l {Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5, (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was fjpaHiLadQpted in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
Clerf< of tKrf'coiAitv legislative hndy. Citv. Town nr Village Clerk or
-j
emcer ^tesighated by local legislative body'^R-oVo^r-^
^•=5^^*^'^^

(Seal)

DOS--0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

// y / z

5

^^9^

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #230-2023
WHEREAS the 2023-2024 Enacted State Budget amended the tax law to clarify
which income tax year applies when determining income eligibility for the senior
citizens tax exemption, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson must amend Chapter 204 ofthe Village
Code, Taxation, to reflect the state's amendment, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 20 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 20 of 2023, which was opened and closed on November 13, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 20 of2023, amending Chapter 204 of the Village
Code, Taxation, to clarify which income tax year applies when determining income
eligibility for the senior citizens tax exemption, which upon adoption becomes Local
Law No. 19 of 2023.
Dated: November 13, 2023
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on the 13^"^ of November 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal ofthe said
Village thirS 17"" day of November 2023.


