---
title: "LL 10-2015: AMEND CHAPTER 204 "TAXATION" TO ADD A NEW ARTICLE VIII ENTITLED TAX ABATEMENT FO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2015-10-26
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 10-2015: AMEND CHAPTER 204 "TAXATION" TO ADD A NEW ARTICLE VIII ENTITLED TAX ABATEMENT FO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2015-10-26
---

Local Law 10-2015
Filed: 2015-10-26
AMEND CHAPTER 204 "TAXATION" TO ADD A NEW ARTICLE VIII ENTITLED TAX ABATEMENT FOR RENT-CONTROLLED AND RENT-REGULATED PROPERTY OCCUPIED BY SENIOR CITIZENS OR PERSON WITH DISABILITIES

. '
,
y

••

New York State" Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ n r p / / PM/P/7/nr7

Albany, NY 122310001

L - a v v I IIIIIKJ

,

,

www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
• C o u n t y DCity DTown DVillage
STATERECORDS
(Selectone:)

. ,

o f Croton-on-Hudson

. OCT 26 2015
DEPART^ylENT OF STATI
Local Law No. 10
A local law

Of the year 2015

Chapter 204 "Taxation" to add a new article VIII entitled Tax Abatement
(Inseil Title)

'

'

~

':

for Rent-Controlled and Rent-Regulated Property Occupied by Senior Citizens or
Persons with Disabilities.

'•

. Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

DCounty DCity
(Selectone:)

DTown

^^^^
-,

•

.

DVillage

-•

o f Croton-on-Hudson

asfollows:

see attached

(If additionatspace Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 10 of the year 2015

A ideal law to amend Chapter 204 "Taxation" to add a new article VIII entitled Tax Abatement
for Rent-Controlled and Rent-Regulated Property Occupied by Senior Citizens or
Persons with Disabilities.
^
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1.

New Article VIII shall be added to Chapter 204, "Taxation," to read as follows:
Article VIII
Tax Abatement for Rent-Controlled and Rent-Regulated Property Occupied
"
by Certain Senior Citizens or Persons with Disabilities

§ 204-29

. Legislative findings and intent.

The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson finds that it is in the public interest to
adopt legislation in accordance with Real Property Tax Law § 467-b, the enabling legislation
enacted by the State Legislature with respect to abatements of real property taxes, where rentcontrolled and rent-regulated property is occupied by persons age sixty-two years of age or older
and of limited means, or persons with disabilities..
§204-30

Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
DWELLINGUNIT
•
'
That part of a dwelling in which a head of the household resides and that is subject to
either the emergency housing rent control law or the emergency tenant protection act of
nineteen seventy-four.
HEAD 0 ¥ THE HOUSEHOLD
'
. A person who: (i) is sixty-two years of age or older, or (ii) qualifies.as a person with a
disability pursuant to Real Property Tax Law § 467-b; and is entitled to the possession or
to the use or occupancy of a dwelling unit.
INCOME
Income from all sources after deduction of all income and social security taxes, and
includes social security and retirement benefits, supplemental security income and

12231

additional state payments, public assistance benefits, interest, dividends, net rental
income, salary or earnings, and net income from self-employment, but shall not include
gifts or inheritances, payments made to individuals because of their statiis as victims of
Nazi persecution, as defined iri P.L. 103-286, or increases iri benefits accorded pursuant to
the social security act or a public or private pension paid to ariy member of the
household which increase, in any given year, does not exceed the consumer price index
(all items United States city average) for such year that take effect after the date, of
eligibility of head of the household or any other member of the household.
INCOME-TAX YEAR
A twelve month period for which the head of the household filed a federal personal
•'
income tax retum, or if no such return is filed, the calendar year.
INCREASE IN MAXIMUM RENT OR LEGAL REGULATED RENT
"
Any increase in the maximum rent or the legal regulated rent for the dwelling unit in
question pursuant to the applicable rent control law of to the emergency tenant
protection act of nineteen seventy-four, respectively, or such classes bf increase
thereunder as may be specified in.a local law, ordinance, or resolution enacted pursuant
to real property tax law section 467-b, over such'base period rent as shall be provided
therein or an exemption from the maximum rent or legal regulated rent as specified in
paragraph 204-31 (B) and section 204-33 of this article.
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSEHOLD
The head qf the household and any person, other than a bona fide roomer, boarder, or
subtenant who is not related to the head of the household, permanently residing in the
dwelling unit.
!:
§ 204-31
'

Abatement of taxes; deductions.

'

A. All taxes of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson imposed on real property containing a dwelling
unit are hereby abated by one of the following amounts:
(1) where the head of household does not receive a monthly allowance for shelter pursuant
to the social services law, the'taxes shall be abated by an amount not in excess of that
portion of any .increase in rnaximum rent or legal regulated rent that causes such
maximum rent or legal regulated rent to exceed one-third of the combined income; of all
members of the household; or
(2) where the head of the household receives a monthly allowance for shelter pursuant to the
social services law, the taxes shall be abated by an amount not in excess of that portion of
any increase in maxirnuin rent or legal regulated rent that is not covered by the
maximum allowance for shelter that such person is entitled to receive pursuant to the
social services law.
,
B. Upon issuance of a tax abatement certificate as hereinafter provided, the amount of increase
in maximum rent or legal regulated rent set forth in said certificate shall be deducted from
the legal maximum rent or legal regulated rerit chargeable for the dwelling unit of a head of
the; household.

§204-32

Exceptioris. •

A. For a dwelling unit where'the head of the household is a person sixty-two years of age or
older, no tax abatement shall be granted if the combined income of all members of the
household for the income tax year immediately preceding the date of rhaking application
exceeds the maximum allowable income provided below:
Beginning Date
July 1,2009
July 1, 2014

• y

Maximum Allowable Income
$29,000
$50,000

provided, however, that when the head of the household retires before the commencement of
such income tax year and the date of filing the application, the income for such year may be
adjusted by excluding salary or earnings and projecting his or her retirement income over the
entire period of such year.
B. For a dwelling unit where the head of the household qualifies as a person with a disability
under this article, no tax abatement shall be granted if the combined income of all members
of the household for the current income tax exceeds fifty thousand dollars beginning July
first, two thousand fourteen.
C. Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs (A) and (B), in the event the maximum allowable
incomes established.under Real Property Tax Law § 467-b for dwelling units where the head
of the household is a person sixty-two years of age or older or a qualified person with a
disability is reduced by operation of law or by action of the state legislature to an amount less
than fifty thousand dollars, the maximum allowable incomes under this section 204-32 shall
automatically reduce to said statutory maximum allowable incomes.
§ 204-33.

Change in principal residence.

A. Notwithstanding any bther provision of law, when a head of the household to whom a then
current, valid tax abatement certificate has been issued moves his or her. principal residence
from one dwelling unit to a subsequerit dwelling unit located within the Village, the head of
the household may apply for a tax abatement certificate relating to the,subsequent dwelling
unit, and such certificate may provide that the head of the household shall be exempt from
paying that portion of the maximum rent or legal regulated rent ier the subsequent dwelling
unit that is the least of the following:
i;
• (1) the ainount by which the rent for the subsequent dwelling unit exceeds the last rent, as
reduced, that the head of the household was required to actually pay in the original
dwelling unit;
•-< (2) the last arnount deducted from the maximum rent or legal regulated rent pursuant to this
section in the original dwelling unit; or
1
(3) where the head of the household does not receive a monthly allowance for shelter
pursuant to the social services law, the amount by which the maximum rent or legal
regulated rent of the subsequerit dwelling unit exceeds one-third of the combined income
of all members of the household:

B. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a head of the household to whom a then
current, valid tax abatement certificate has been issued moves his or her principal residence
from one dwelling unit subject to the pfpvisions of articles II, IV, V or XI of the private
housing finance law to a subsequent dwelling unit subject to either the local emergency
housing rent control law or to the emergency tenant protection act of runeteen seventy-four
that is located within the Village, the head of the household may apply for a tax abatement
certificate relating to.the subsequent dwelling unit,, and such certificate may provide that the
, head of the household shall be exempt from paying that portion of the maximum rent or
legal regulated rent for the subsequent dwelling unit that is the least of the following:
(1) the amount by which the rent for the subsequent dwelling unit exceeds the last rent, as so
reduced, that the heiad of the household was required to actually pay in the original
dwelling unit;
(2) the most recent amount so deducted from the maximum rent or legal regulated rent in
the original dwelling unit; or
i
(3) where the head of the household does not receive a monthly allowance for shelter
pursuant to the social services law, the amount by which the iriaximum rent or legal
regulated rent of the subsequerit dwelling unit exceeds one-third of the combined income
of all members of the household. .
§204-34.

Application for redeterrriination in case of; decrease in income.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, where a head of the household
holds a current, valid tax abatement certificate and, after the effective date of this paragraph,
there is a permanent decrease in the combined income of all members of the household in an
amount that exceeds twenty percent of such income as represented in such head of the
household's last approved application for a tax abatement certificate or for renewal thereof,
such head of the household may apply for; a redetermination of the amount set forth therein.
Upon application, such amount shall be redetermined so as to re-establish the ratio of;,
adjusted rent to income that existed at the time of approval of such head of the household's
last application for a tax abatement certificate or for renewal thereof; provided, however, that
in no event shall the amount of the adjusted rent be redetermined tb be (i) in the case of a
head of the household who does not receive a monthly'allowance for shelter pursuant to the
social services law, less than one-third of the combined income of all members of the
' household; or (ii) in the case of a head of the household who receives a monthly allowance
for shelter pursuant to the social services law, less than the maximum allowance for shelter
which such head of the household is entitled to receive pursuant to such law. For purposes of
this paragraph, a decrease in the combined income of all members of the household shall not
include any decrease in such'income resulting from the manner in which income is calculated
pursuant to any amendment to paragraph c of subdivision one of Real Property Tax Law §
467-b made on or after April first, nineteen hundred eighty-seven. For purposes of this
paragraph, "adjusted rent" shall mean maximum rent or legal regulated rent less the amount
set forth in a tax abatement certificate.

§ 204-35.

Second dwelling unit.

A. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a head of the household who is at least sixtytvyo years of age and otherwise eligible under this article for a tax abatement certificate shall

be issued a tax abatement certificate applicable to a second dwelling unit when such persori
occupies two contiguous and connected dwelling units, both of which are eligible for a tax
abatement certificate when bccupied by .the head the household at least sixty-two years of
age, as a combined residence and such person has occupied and paid rent for both units for
at least two years. Only one head of household shall be. issued a tax abatement certificate for
each eligible contiguous and connected dwelling units pursuant to this paragraph.
B. If the appropriate rent control agency or administrative agency determines that there was a
material misstatement in an application filed by a head of household for a second tax,
abatement certificate pursuant to this paragraph and that such misstatement provided the
basis for the granting of such second certificate/ the rent control agency or administrative
agency shall proceed to impose a penalty on the applicant of one thousand dollars in
addition to recovering the amount of any prior exemption erroneously granted. For purposes
of this paragraph, "contiguous" shall mean adjacent or next to.
•
§ 204-36.

AppHcation for certificate. .

The head of the household must apply every two years to the Office of Rent Administration,
Division of Housing and Community Renewal of the State of New York, for a tax abatement
certificate on a form prescribed by said agency. A tax abatement certificate setting forth an
amount not in excess of the increase i n maximum' rent or legal regulated rent for the taxable
period shall be issued by said agency to each head of the household who is found to be eligible
under this article on or before the last date prescribed by law for the payment of the Village's real
property taxes or the first installment thereof. Copies of such certificate shall be issued to the
owner of the real property containing the dwellirig unit of the head of the household and to the
Village Treasurer.
§ 204-37.

Eligibility;.eligibility date.

A. To qualify as a person with a disability for the purposes of this section, an individual shall
submit to the Office of Rent Administration, Division of Housing and Community Renewal
of the State of New York, proof sufficient to such agency that such individual is eurreritly
receiving social security disability insurance (SSDI) or supplemental security income (SSI)
benefits urider the federal social security act or disability pension or disability compensation
benefits provided by the United States department of veterans affairs or those previously
* eligible by virtue of receiving disability benefits under the supplemental security income
program or the social security disability program and currently receiving medical assistance
benefits based on determination of disability as provided in section three hundred sixty-six of
the New York Social Services law.
.
•
B. Eligibility shall be determined as of the date of receipt in the Office of Rent Administration of
a properly completed form. A pro rata share of taxes paid prior to such eligibility date shall,
be credited against the next succeeding Village tax period.
§ 204-38.

Portion of taxes deducted or remitted.

, , .

The amount set forth in a tax abatement certificate shall be deducted from the total taxes levied
by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson on real property containing the dwelling urut of a head of
household to whom the certificate has been issued, effective the begirming of the next fiscal year

after the application has been filed, provided that the application has been filed no later than
April 1.of each year.
§ 204-39.

Vacancy of dwelling unit.

Upon the vacancy of a dwelling urut for which a tax abatement certificate has been issued, the
owner thereof shall remit a pro rata portiori of the tax abatement to the collectirig officer of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson and any amount due by reason of such vacancy shall be a lien upon
the property on and after the date bf such vacancy.
§ 204-40.

Overcharges.

Where a tax abatement certificate has been issued to a head bf the household as authorized by
this article and the landlord collects or attempts to collect all or part of the amount covered by
such tax abatement certificate, the amount bf such abatement shall be deemed a rent overcharge
under the applicable rent control or rent regulation law.

This chapter shall take effect immediately filing with the office ofthe Secretary ofState.

(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
stril<e out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. y H
the (County^fCityUTownWillageVof Ci:oton-on-Hudson
^
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

;

,.

: :

'

• '

on October 19

]

20l5

of 2 0 ^
of
yy,as duly passed by the

, in accordance with the applicable

•

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. .
of 2 0 .
_of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
-.
;
was duly passed by the
'.
.
'.
.
on —
:
20
and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
• ' '
.
' •
.
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective ChlefExecutive Officer*) '
on

_
'

2o[

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
.
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
•
(Name of Legislative Body)

'
• •.-

on.

of 20
'

of

-,

' '

20_

and was (approved)(not approved)

was duly passed by the

,

(repassed after disapproval) by the

•
' • •
'
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason ofa (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote ofa majority ofthe qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(arinual) election held on
20
4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
• '
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) bythe

.
-.

'

:
on

[
20

"

of 20

_on

of

was duly passed by the
, and was (approved)(not approved)
• .' '

••

i 20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on'a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power tb approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
, •
of 20
of
the City of —
.
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
•
20_
L , became operative.
6. (County locailaw concerning adoption of Charter.)
I, hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
•
h
of 20
of
the County of ^
_ S t a t e of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November _
^^.20^
, pursuantto subdivisions 5 and 7 ofsection 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote pf a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared theprecedinglocal law with theoriginal on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom, and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted injje-manher Inptc^jated in
paragraph ,
above.
Clerk of>Ke county
officeKaesignated by loc^l h

(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

.

Ilage Clerl< or

e body P ^ l ^ ^ t^^^a^ + C

Date:

Page 4 of 4

4b.
On motion of TRUSTEE LEVITT, seconde(d by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the
following resolution was adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees o f t h e
Village of Croton-on-H.udsoh, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village wishes to.amend.Chapter 204 "Taxation" to add a new article
V I I I entitled "Tax Abatement for Rent-Controlled and Rent-Regulated Property
Occupied by Senior Citizens or Persons with Disabilities" i n t h e Village Code o f t h e
Village of Croton on Hudson.
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2015 has been drafted to reflect such
language;
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on October 19, 2015,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Beared of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No,. 6 of 2015 to amend Chapter 204 "Taxation" to
add a new article V I I I entitled "Tax Abatement for Rent-Controlled and RentRegulated Property Occupied by. Senior Citizens or Persons with Disabilities" in the
Village Code o f t h e Village of Croton on Hudson, which upon adoption vyill become
Local Law No. 10. of 2015.

Dated: October. 19, 2015

State of New York

I

)
ss:

County of Westchester ,

)

• ' '
'

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk o f t h e Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of Nevy York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on October 19*^^^, 2015.
I N : WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
of the said Village this 20'''day of October, 2015.
•.

Village Cletkx

(Seal)

V vi

''•^ J. )


