---
title: "LL 10-2024: TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON T"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2024-07-12
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 10-2024: TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON T"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-07-12
---

Local Law 10-2024
Filed: 2024-07-12
TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TO PROVIDE FOR EXEMPTIONS FOR THE COST OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY INVOLVING THE CREATION OF ACCESSORY DWELLINGS UNITS AND TO PROVIDE FOR LIVING QUARTERS F

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or undertining to indicate new matter.

FILED
•County

nCity

DTown

^Village

STATE (^ECOHD^J

of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No.

of the year 2024

10

A local law *° ^f^^i^d Chapter 204, Taxation, ofthe Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson to provide
(Insert Title)

for exemptions for the cost of Capital Improvements to Residential Property involving the
creation of accessory dwellings units and to provide for living quarters for parent or
grandparent.
Be it enacted by the ViHage Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

nCity

GTown

[XlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached,

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 10-2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO PROVIDE FOR EXEMPTIONS FOR THE
COST OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY INVOLVING
THE CREATION OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND TO PROVIDE FOR LIVING
QUARTERS FOR PARENT OR GRANDPARENT
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. There is hereby added to Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson a new Article X entitled "Exemption of Capital Improvements to Residential Property
For the Creation of Accessory DwelUng Units" to read as follows:
Article X Exemption of Capital Improvements to Residential Property For the Creation of
Accessory Dwelling Units
§ 204-49. Exemption granted.
Pursuant to § 421-p ofthe Real Property Tax Law and subject to all the conditions set forth therein,
residential buildings that are reconstructed, altered, improved or newly constmcted in order to create
one or more additional residential dwelling imits on tUe same parcel as a preexisting residential
building to provide independent living faciUties for one or more persons shall be partially exempt
from taxation and special ad valorem levies as provided herein and in RPT §421-p. Such exemption
may only be granted for an accessory apartment permitted pursuant to §230-41 of the ViUage of
Croton-on-Hudson Zoning Code.
§ 204^50. Limitations.
A. Such exemption shall be for a period offiveyears to the extent of one hundred per centum of
the increase in assessed value thereof attributable to such reconstmction, alteration,
improvement, or new construction for such additional residential unit or units, and for an
additional period of five years subject to the foUowing:
1. The extent of such exemption shall be decreased by twenty-five per centum of tbe
"exemption base" for each of the first three years during such additional period and
shall be decreased by a further ten per centum of the exemption base during each of
the final two years of such additional period. The exemption shall expire at the end of
the extended period. The "exemption base" shall be the increase in assessed value as
determined in the initial year of the term of the exemption, or as otherwise set forth
in § 421-p2(a)(ii) ofthe Real Property Tax Law.
2. In any year in which a change in level of assessment of fifteen percent or more is
certified for a final assessment roll pursuant to the rules of the commissioner of
taxation and finance, the exemption base shall be multiplied by a fraction, tbe
numerator of which shall be the total assessed value of the parcel on such final

assessment roll (after accounting for any physical or quantity changes to the parcel
since the immediately preceding assessment roll), and the denominator of which shall
be the total assessed value of the parcel on the immediately preceding final assessment
roll. The result shall be the new exemption base. The exemption shall thereupon be
recomputed to take into account the new exemption base, notwithstanding the fact
that the assessor receives certification of the change in level of assessment after the
completion, verification and filing of tUe final assessment roll. In the event the
assessor does not have custody of the roll when such certification is received, the
assessor shall certify the recomputed exemption to the local officers having custody
and control of the roll, and such local officers are hereby directed and authorized to
enter the recomputed exemption certified by the assessor on the roll. The assessor
shall give written notice of such recomputed exemption to the property owner, who
may, if such property owner believes that the exemption was recomputed incorrectly,
apply for a correction in the manner provided by title three of article five of the Real
Property Tax Law for the correction of clerical errors.
3. Such exemption shall be Umited to two hundred thousand dollars in increased market
value of the property attributable to such reconstmction, alteration, improvement or
new constmction and any increase in market value greater than such amount shall not
be eligible for the exemption pursuant to this article. The market value of the
reconstmction, alteration, improvement or new constmction shall be calculated as set
forth in § 421-p2(a)(iii) of the Real Property Tax Law.
B. No such exemption shall be granted for reconstruction, alterations, improvements or new
construction unless:
1. Such reconstmction, alteration, improvement or new constmction was commenced
subsequent to the effective date of this local law; and
2. The value of such reconstruction, alteration, improvement or new constmction
exceeds three thousand dollars; and
3. Such reconstmction, alteration, improvement or new constmction created one or more
additional residential dwelling units on the same parcel as the preexisting building to
provide independent living facilities for one or more persons as permitted by §23041 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Zoning Code.
C. For the purposes of this article, reconstmction, alteration, improvement or new constmction
shall not mclude ordinary maintenance or repairs.
D. If a building granted an exemption pursuant to this article ceases to be used primarily for
residential purposes, or title thereto is transferred to other than the hefrs or distributees ofthe
owner, the exemption granted pursuant to this article shall cease.
§ 204-51. Application for exemption.
Such exemption shall be granted only upon application by the owner of such building on a form
prescribed by the Commissioner of taxation and finance. The appUcation shall be filed with the
2

Assessor ofthe ViUage of Croton-on-Hudson on or before the taxable status date of January 1 to be
eligible for an exemption to be entered on the assessment roll prepared on the basis of said taxable
status date.
Section Two. There is hereby added to Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Code of the ViUage of Crotonon-Hudson a new Article XI entitled "Exemption for Constmction of Living Quarters for Parent or
(jrandparenf' to read as follows:
Article XI. Exemption for Construction of Living Quarters for Parent or Grandparent
§ 204-52. Exemption granted.
Pursuant to § 469 of the Real Property Tax Law and subject to all the conditions set forth in therein,
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson does hereby provide for an exemption from taxation to the extent
of any increase in assessed value of residential property resulting from the constmction or
reconstmction of such property for the purpose of providing living quarters for a parent or
grandparent, who is sixty-two years of age or older. For the purposes of this article, a parent or
grandparent shall be deemed to include the birth or adoptive parents and grandparents of the owner
ofthe real property or ofthe owner's spouse.
§204-53. Limitations.
A. The exemption set forth in § 204-53 above shall not exceed:
1. The increase in assessed value resulting from constmction or reconstmction of such
property for such purpose; or
2. Twenty percent of the total assessed value of such property as improved; or
3. Twenty percent ofthe median sale price of residential property as reported in the most
recent sales statistical summary published by the commissioner of taxation and
finance for the county in which the property is located, whichever is less.
B. No such exemption shall be granted imless:
1. The property is within the geographical area in which such construction or
reconstruction is permitted; and
2. The residential property so constructed or reconstmcted is the principal place of
residence of the owner.
C. Such exemptions shall be applicable only to constmction or reconstmction which occurred
subsequent to the effective date of this article and shall only apply during taxable years during
which at least one such parent or grandparent maintains a primary place of residence in such
living quarters.
§ 204-54. Application for exemption.

Such exemption from taxation shall be granted upon an application made annually, upon a form
to be promulgated by the commissioner of taxation and finance, by the owner of such property
to the Assessor of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson on or before the taxable status date of January
I . If the Assessor is satisfied that the property is entitled to an exemption pursuant to this article,
they shall approve the application and such residential improvements shall be exempt from
taxation and special ad velorem levies as set forth herein and in RPTL §469.
§ 204-55. Penalties for false statements.
Any conviction of having made any willful false statement in the application for such exemption
shall result in the revocation thereof, be punishable by a civil penalty of not more than one
hundred dollars and sUall disqualify the applicant or applicants from further exemption for a
period offiveyears.

Section Three. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invaUd, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity ofthe remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Four. Effective Date.
This local law shaU take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. I z
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on June 26
gogj
(Name ofLegislalive Body)
provisions of law.

of 2o21
of
^^ly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the focal law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as locai law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

., and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

,
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20

,

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the {general)(special)(annual) election held on
20
4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.
(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

i hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as loca! law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of ^

of

was duly passed by the
on

fA/ame ofLegislalive Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20_^

„ . Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
,, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local iaw annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
_ 20
, pursuant lo subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general elecfion, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in thejnanoeLindicated in
paragraph ,
above.
Clerk of the<bunty legislative body, gity, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body
^^vtl^Ifi-^'
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

^^^y^V

On morion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #133-2024
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Village
Code to add tax exemptions for the construction of accessory dwelling units and living
quarters for parents/grandparents, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2024 was opened
and closed on June 26, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of2024, to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, of the
Village Code to add tax exemptions for the construction of accessory dwelling units
and living quarters for parents/grandparents, which upon adoption becomes Local
Law No. 10 of 2024.

Dated: June 26, 2024

^

r(c 7^ ^ 5^ sfs sjc j|c ^ ^!

4"

State ofNew York

"t*

'I*

' I ' 'J* ^ ^fi

^ ^fi "i^

4"

)

ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 26* of June 2024.
IN WIlNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of tEe said Village tljis^^S^y of July 2024.
Villap^Clerk
(Seal)


