---
title: "LL 11-2022: AMEND CHAPTER 204, ARTICLE II OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2022-10-24
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 11-2022: AMEND CHAPTER 204, ARTICLE II OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-10-24
---

Local Law 11-2022
Filed: 2022-10-24
AMEND CHAPTER 204, ARTICLE II OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO AMEND PROVISIONS FOR THE SENIOR CITIZENS TAX EXEMPTION

Local Law Filing

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

( U s e this form to file a local law with the S e c r e t a r y of State.)
Text of law should be given as a m e n d e d . Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
•County GCity GTown
GVillage
^'TATe RecORDS

OCT 24 2022
of Croton-on-Hudson

''^cuu
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local L a w N o .

o f t h e y e a r 2022

11

A local law ^ " ^ ^ ^ 0 CHAPTER 204, ARTICLE II OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO AMEND PROVISIONS FOR THE SENIOR
SENIOR CITIZENS TAX EXEMPTION

Be It e n a c t e d by t h e Village Board ofTrustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)
•County

QCity

nTown

GVillage

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev.06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 11 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, ARTICLE H OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO AMEND PROVISIONS FOR THE SENIOR
CITIZENS TAX EXEMPTION
Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section One. Section 204-15 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to re£id as follows:
§ 204-15 Exemption granted.
Pursuant to § 467 of the Real Property Tax Law, real property owned by one or more
persons, each of whom is 65 years of age or over, or real property owned by spouses one of
whom is 65 years of age or over, who are eligible as set forth below, shall be exempt from
taxation by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for Village general taxes to the extent of 50%
of the assessed valuation thereof Such exemption shall be computed after all other partial
exemptions allowed by law have been subtracted from the total amoimt assessed. Said
exemption is allowed to otherwise eligible senior citizens who become 65 after the taxable
status date, but before December 31 of the calendar year.
Section Two. Section 204-16 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
§204-16 Income eligibility.
In order to be eligible to apply for a partial exemption in the amount of 50% of the assessed
valuation, the income of the owner or the combined income of the owners must not exceed
$50,000 from all sources as set forth in such § 467, as amended, for the 12 consecutive
months prior to the date that the application Is filed. Where title is vested in one spouse, the
combined income may not exceed such sum. Any such income shall be offset by all
medical and prescription drug expenses actually paid which were not reimbursed or paid
for by insurance.
Section Three. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.

Section Four. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing In the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. •
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on October 17
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^2
of
^^as duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the {County)(City)(Town){Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name ofLegisIativc Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the..^
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

3.

20|

I

and was deemed duly adopted

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Viilage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

- and was (approved){not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(speclal)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County){City){Town)(Viliage) of
.
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed afterdisapproval) by the

of

was duly passed by the
on

20,^

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to pemnissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS--0239-f-l {Rev.06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of ^
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affimnative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
Slate of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20.^
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote o f a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority ofthe
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finalli^^^d^pted-rn-thp manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
Clerjs^the o6unty Ibgisiitive body, City, Town or Villaoe Clerk or
offr6er desi^ated by locai legislative body P»4-tyCt-^^_^ "i? > S"^^(/i^pO
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

1^11^

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #148-2022
WHEREAS pursuant to § 467 of the Real Property Tax Law, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
maintains a senior tax exemption at the maximum level of 50% for those senior citizens earning
$29,000/year or less, and
WHEREAS on August 8, 2022, New York State adopted legislation increasing the income
eligibility level for the senior property tax exemption from $29,000 to $50,000, and
WHEREAS the option to increase the income eligibility level for the senior property tax
exemption must be exercised through adoption ofa local law, ordinance, or resolution after public
hearing, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 14 of2022 has been drafted to reflect such language, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 14 was opened and closed on
October 17, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board ofTrustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 14 of 2022 to increase the income eligibility level for the senior property
tax exemption, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 11 of 2022.
Dated: October 17, 2022
State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the Coimty of Westchester,
State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on October 17, 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, 1 have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village this 20*'^ day of October 2022.

^/VinageCle4
(Seal).


