---
title: "LL 10-2021: TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON ZONING TO UP"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2021-10-28
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 10-2021: TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON ZONING TO UP"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2021-10-28
---

Local Law 10-2021
Filed: 2021-10-28
TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON ZONING TO UPDATE CERTAIN PROVISIONS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

FILED
STATE RECORDS

[XiVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

OPT 9. 3 9n?l
w^-;—-

—

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Local Law No.
A local law

ofthe year 2021

10

TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON(Insert Title)

HUDSON, ZONING, TO UPDATE CERTAIN PROVISIONS

Be it enacted by the VillageBoardofTrustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

nCity

QTown

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 10 OF 2021
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, ZONING, TO UPDATE CERTAIN PROVISIONS
Be il enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Seclion 230-46 of the Code of the Village of Crolon-on-Hudson is hereby deleted in
hs entirety.
Section Two. Seclion 230-164B. of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
§ 230-164 Zoning Board of Appeals procedure.
B.

Notice of hearing, property owners. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant any appeal
for a variance or issue any special or temporary permit without first holding a public hearing,
notice of which hearing and of the substance of the appeal or applicalion shall be given by
publication in the official newspaper of the Village at least 10 days before that dale of such
hearing. In addition to such published notice, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall cause notice
to be given of the substance of every appeal for a variance and of every application for a
special permit, together with notice of the hearing thereon, by causing notices thereof lo be
mailed by postal card or other means at least 10 days before the day of said hearing to the
owners of all properly abutting lhal held by the applicant in the immediate area, whether or
nol involved in such appeal or applicalion, and all other owners wilhin 200 feet, from the
exterior boundaries ofthe land involved in such appeal or application, as the names of said
owners appear on the last completed assessment roll of the Village; provided, however, that in
the case of variance applications for fences, sheds or walls, notices shall only be required lo
be mailed lo owners of properties immediately abutting, and directly across the street from,
the exterior boundaries of the land involved in such applications. Any or all of the notices
required by this seclion shall be issued by the office of the Village Engineer provided that due
notice shall have been published as above provided and lhal there shall have been substantial
compUance with the remaining provisions of this subsection, the failure to give notice in exact
conformance herewith shall not be deemed to invalidate action taken by the Zoning Board of
Appeals in conneclion with the granting of any appeal or variance or issuance of any special
or temporary permit pursuani thereto.

Section Three. Seclion 230-174B. of the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
§ 230-174 Penalties for offenses.
B.

Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to comply with any of these provisions

hereof shall, upon conviction thereof of each offense, be subject to the penalties provided
by § 1-12 of Chapter 1, General Provisions. Each and every day that such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Section Four. Severability
If any seclion, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authorily of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity ofthe remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Five. Effective Date
This local law shall lake effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York Slale
Secretary of Slate in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. Z^l]
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board ofTrustees
on September 20
2o£!
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^^
of
y^as ^Ljly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed bythe
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was {approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*}
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as loca! law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town){Viilage) of
,
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
.
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law Nn
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20_
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majonty of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was final]y-«ct5ptidlrnhe manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
gislative body. City, Town1 or
or Village
village Clerk
uierKor
or
_^-)
fA<Ji^-nI br
S^^T^
ignated by local legislativ
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #159-2021
WHEREAS the Village would like lo amend the Zoning Chapter ofthe Village Code, Section 230, to
eliminate the prohibition against video game and arcade machines, update notification procedures for
sheds and update penalties for offenses, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2021 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on June 21, 2021, the Village Board determined that the Proposed Action is a Type 1 action,
declared itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and issued the EAF and CAP in connection
with the Proposed Action, and
WHEREAS the Westchester County Planning Board, Village Planning Board and the Waterfront
Advisory Committee have submitted memorandums in support of the local law and
WHEREAS a public hearing was opened and closed on August 30, 2021, and
WHEREAS on September 20, 2021, the Board ofTrustees issued a negative declaration under SEQRA
and adopted a statement of consistency with regards to the Village's LWRP,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board ofTrustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 8 of 2021 to eliminate the prohibition against video game and arcade machines, update
notification procedures for sheds and update penalties for offenses wilhin the Village of Croton-onHudson, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 10 of 2021.
Dated: September 20, 2021

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of
New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and
has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board ofTrustees of said Village held on September 20,
2021.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, 1 have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village
this 22"'' day of September 2021.


