---
title: "LL 11-2020: A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 223, WATER, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2020-12-14
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 11-2020: A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 223, WATER, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2020-12-14
---

Local Law 11-2020
Filed: 2020-12-14
A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 223, WATER, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO UPDATE PENALTY PROCEDURES

New York State Department of State
Division ofCorporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Piaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state, ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given a s amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or undedining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

GTown

FILED
STATE B,i'C()f<.OS

[X|Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local L a w No.

DLC 1 i Z020
of the year 2020

11

A local law AMENDING CHAPTER 223, WATER, OF THE CODE OF THE
(Insert Title)

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO UPDATE PENALTY P R O C E D U R E S

Be it enacted by the ^'"^9® Board of Tmstees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

DCity

GTown

GVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12}

Page 2 of 4

LOCAL LAW NO. 11 OF 2020
A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 223, WATER, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO UPDATE PENALTY PROCEDURES
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 223, Water, Section 223-12, Fees, charges and payments; water biUs, is
hereby amended as follows:
§223-12(F). Penalties for nonpayment of charges.
(1) The following penalties are prescribed for failure to pay water charges, after the levy
thereof:
(a) No penally shall be assessed if charges are paid by the due date set forth on the
bill.
(2) If the water charge is not paid by the due date set forth on the bill, a penalty of 5% of
the amount due shall be assessed, and a further penalty of 1% shall be added for each
succeeding month or any portion thereof in which the water rents are not paid.
Thereafter, on the next succeeding April 15, the Village Treasurer shall cause any
said unpaid water rents and penalties thereon more than 60 days overdue to be added
to the Village tax bills. Said water rents and penalties shall constitute a lien on the
real property so affected. Partial payments covering a portion of a bill will be
accepted, provided that such payments shall be applied first to penalties, and the
unpaid water charges will continue to accrue penalties at the rate of 1% per month
until paid.
Section Two. Severability
If any seetion, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, ageney, commission, legislative body or other
authorily of competent jurisdiction, sueh portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity oflhe remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon adoption and fding in the office ofthe
Secretary of State in accordance with Seetion 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County){City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on December 7

^^^'^

of 20^^
of
was duly passed by the
2 0 ^ _ , in accordance with the applicable

(Name of Legislative Body)

provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County){City)(Town)(Viliage) of
was duly passed by the
on
20_
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ^

.

.

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved){not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Chief Executive

20

.

Officer')

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special){annual) election held on
20
4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City){Town)(Village) of
....
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Execulive Officer')
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special){general) election held on
20
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the loca! law annexed hereto, designated as local law No._
. of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding locai law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
C\^r^ ofv^s c6\/nb^\eQ^
Cily, Town or Village Clerk or ^
.^^
/mficer designatWby local legislative body
\ ^ ,a_ov./vC<_i^:i\ SuvvTU
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev, 06/12)

Date:

/ ^ / o / z € ^

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
Resolution #174-2020
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 223, Water, ofthe Code of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update penalty procedures; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on December 7, 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2020 to amend Chapter 223, Water, of the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update penalty procedures, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 11 of 2020.

Dated: December 7, 2020
State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on December 7, 2020.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, 1 have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said Village this IO'*" day of December 2020.


