---
title: "LL 1-2015: AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MU"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2015-03-31
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 1-2015: AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MU"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2015-03-31
---

Local Law 1-2015
Filed: 2015-03-31
AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW 3-C

•

New York State Department of State
Division of Corpoi^ations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

^ AAA

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do hot include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

lx]Village

FILED
STATE RECORDS

(Selectone:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

MAR 3 r . 7 n i R
of the year 2015DEPARTMENT OF S T A T f

Local Law No. 1

A local law 3'J*'^°'"'^'"9 ^ property tax levy in excess ofthe limit established in General Municipal
(Insert Title)

~~

^

'.

~

T

~.

'

'

Law §3-c

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[x]Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-oh-Huds6n

as follows:

A local law authorizing a property tax levy in excess of the limit established in General Municipal Law §3-c
Section 1. Legislative Intent
It is the intent of this local law to allow the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to adopt a budget for the fiscal year
commencing June 1, 2015 that requires a real property tax levy in excess ofthe "tax levy limit" as defined by
General Municipal Law § 3-c.
Section 2. Authority
,
This local law is adopted pursuant to subdivision 5 of General Municipal Law §3-c, which expressly authorizes a local
government's governing body to override the property tax cap for the coming fiscal year by the adoption of a local law
approved by a vote of sixty percent (60%) of said governing body.
Section 3. Tax Levy Limit Override
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on- Hudson , County of Westchester, is hereby authorized to adopt a
budget forthe fiscal year commencing June 1, 2015 that requires a real property tax levy in excess of the amount
othenwise prescribed in General Municipal Law §3-c.
Section 4. Severability
If a court determines that any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this local law or the application
thereof to any person, firm or corporation, or circumstance is invalid or unconstitutional, the court's order orjudgment
shall not affect, impair; or invalidate the remainder ofthis local law, but shall be confined in its operation to the
clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part ofthis local law or in its application to the person, individual, firm or
corporation or circumstance, directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment or order shall be rendered.
Section 5. Effective date
This local lavViShall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State..
(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (Couhty)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
[__
'
Village Board of Trustees
_^
.
pp March 16

.20"^^

of 20 15
of
was duly passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

(Name of Legislative Body)

provisions of law..

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.) ,
|
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. .
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
on
(Name of Legislative Body)

and was deemed duly adopted

(repassed after disapproval) by the.
(Elective. Chief Executive Officer*)

20

on

in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
of 20.

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

' .
on

(Name of Legislative Body)

was duly passed by the
and was (approved)(not approved)

20

(repassed after disapproval) by the
.

..

of

.20.

.on

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

Such local law was subrnitted to the people by reason ofa (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on.
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20.
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

"

on.

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

was duly passed by the

^

•

,, and was (approved)(not approved)

.20
.on

.

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive 0/i'/cer|j

law was.subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of.
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

'* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or Includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local lavv, concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
_^
of 2 0 _
of
the City of
_
.
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Honrie Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on.
20_
became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20.
_ of
_State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
the County of.
November _^
20.
., pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 bf section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote bf a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopte^Urrthe rriarmeRndicated in
paragraph ,
above.
lativ3)body, City, Town c ^ i l i a g e Clerkjii

(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE LEVITT, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN the following resolution
was adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York; witli a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor recently enacted legislation that establishes
a "property tax cap" on the amount that a local g;ovemment's property tax levy can increase each
year; and
WHEREAS, this law is effective for local government's fiscal year beginning in 2012; and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes charged on the
municipality's taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at 1.79 percent (as updated for
2015) or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to protect
the Village from unforeseenfinancialcircumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event that an override is necessary, the law
enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2015 has been drafted to override the "property
tax cap" law enacted by State Legislature if necessary; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on March 16, 2015,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2015^ to override the "property tax cap" law enacted by State
Legislature if necessary, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 1 of 2015.
Dated: March 16,2015
State of New York
)
•
ss:
Cbunty of Westchester
)

'

I, Pauline,DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village,held on March 16^ 2015.

"

•\ .

IN WITNESS-WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village\thist23><rayj3^R<^h, 2015.


