---
title: "LL 12-2024: TO AMEND CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2024-12-24
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 12-2024: TO AMEND CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-12-24
---

Local Law 12-2024
Filed: 2024-12-24
TO AMEND CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO SEASONAL PARKING

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Unifonn Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza. 99 Washington Avenue

Local Law Filing

Ji':S:Z'^^^:;!Z

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not Include matter being ellminSik^n'^do not use
italics or undertining to Indicate new matter.
STATE
RECORDS
•County

•City

•Town

glViliage

(Selectone:)

QgQ

2 /f 2 0 2 ^

of Croton-on-Hudson

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Local Law No.

12

of the year 2024

A local law TO AMEND CHAPTER 215. VEHICLE & TRAFFIC. OF THE CODE OF
(Insert Title)

'

'

'

'

THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO
SEASONAL PARKING

Be It enacted by the ^"'^9^ ^^^^^ of Trustees

^^^^^

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

QTown

glVillage

(SelBCtone:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-W (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 12 OF 2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC, OF THE CODE OF
THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO
SEASONAL PARKING
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 215-29, Seasonal parking, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is
hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 215-29. Seasonal parking.
A. Vehicles shall be allowed to remain standing on any street or public highway within the
corporate limits of the ViUage of Croton-on-Hudson, except when otherwise prohibited by
this chapter or any other chapter of the Croton-on-Hudson Code, and except when snow
accumulates to two or more inches.
B.

Upon an accumulation of two or more inches of snow, no vehicle of any kind shall be allowed
to remain standing on any street or public highway until the snow has ended and the road has
been cleared of snow. Vehicles must be relocated to off-street locations and may be parked on
the Village right-of-way area directiy infi-ontof the vehicle owner's residence, except that
vehicles may not be parked on any part of a street, sidewalk, or curb. Vehicles parked in the
Municipal Building parking lot, Asbury Methodist parking lot, Merwin Oak parking lot, and
South Harmon parking lot must be moved within 12 hours after snow has ended.

C. Special hardship permits. In cases where there is no ofF-street location or right-of-way area
which can be used, the Village Manager shall, upon written application, verification of the
applicant's special hardship and payment of a fee charged in accordance with the fee schedule
established by the Village Board of Trustees, issue an annual permit granting permission to
park motor vehicles on the street or public lughway except for certain streets designated by
the Village M£mager, upon recommendation of the Superintendent of the Department of
Public Works, provided that such parking conforms to all other laws and regulations. No
permit parking shall be permitted on those streets designated by the Village Manager.
Hardship permit holders shall move their vehicles to an area cleared of snow no later than 12
hours after the snow stops.
D. Ovemight parking. Ovemight parking in certain sections of the Municipal Building parking
lot is prohibited diu-ing snow events as designated by signage.
E.

Fine prescribed. All vehicles in violation of this section are subject to a fine as prescribed in
§215-30(6) and towing.

Section Two. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Three. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as locat law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
ViHageBoard of Trustees
^
on October 23
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law,

20^

of 20^^
of
passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(Clty)(Town)(V}llage) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
,
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20|

1 ), In accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(Cily)(Town)(VilIage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on „

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

..

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer'}
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) electron held on
20

, In accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
,
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Vi(Iage) of

:

,
(Name of Legislative Body)

on

(repassed after disapprovaO by the

.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

was duly passed by the
20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

Such local

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislaOve body, the mayor of a city or viiiage. or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5- (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the kx:al law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
_ — having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held o n .
„ 20
. became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local iaw annexed hereto, designated as local law No
.
of 20
of
the County of
.Stale of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Munidpal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on ftle tnttus-effice^nd that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was fipaflyadopted i n t h ^ manner indicated in
paragraph.
above.
Cjpfk of the coiBityJcgislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk_or
Wicer designated by local legislative body
""^^-oU^iZ^^^^rt
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #201-2024
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 215,
Vehicles & Traffic, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update
provisions related to seasonal parking, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hem-ing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 13 of 2024, which was opened and closed on October 23, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2024, amending Chapter 215, Vehicles &
Traffic, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update provisions related
to seasonal parking, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 12 of 2024.
Dated: October 23, 2024

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County ofWestchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 23 of October 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Ihave hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said VilJUt^TSis 25"Bay.,of October 2024.


