---
title: "LL 1-2024: TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON CHAPTER 230, REGARDIN"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2024-01-18
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 1-2024: TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON CHAPTER 230, REGARDIN"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-01-18
---

Local Law 1-2024
Filed: 2024-01-18
TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON CHAPTER 230, REGARDING ACCESSORY APARTMENTS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 9^ Washington Avenue

/ n r ^ l I PM/ F i l i n n

Ait&any.Nv 122310001

U U L ^ a i t^aVV 1 l l l l i y

www.aos.state.ny.us/corps
I

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

i
i

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated aiSd do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
•County

•City

•Town

[^Village

STATE RECOf^DS

(Selectone:)

JAN

1 S

2^24

of Croton-on-Hudson
i

Local Law No.

01

of the year 2024

'
j

A local law ™ AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON- ON-HUDSON
(Insert Title)

'

'

~

~

CHAPTER 230, REGARDING ACCESSORY APARTMENTS.

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

\I
•County

•City

•Town

|X]Village

(Select one:)

',

of Croton-on-Hudson

'as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
PROPOSED LOCAL LAW NO. 01-2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AIMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGB! OF CROTONON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 230, REGARDING ACCESSORY APARTMENTS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One: Section 230-41, Accessory apartments, ofthe Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
i
§ 230-41, Accessory apartments.
A. An accessory apartment shall be permitted in a single-family detached dwelling Or in an accessory
structure (an accessory cottage), on a lot containing no more than one dwelling; unit, in districts
permitfing single-family residences upon approval by the Planning Board, subject to tbe condifions and
limitations contained in this section.
B. An accessory cottage shall comply with all requirements of this chapter applicable to accessory
structures, except that any such structure shall have a minimum setback from all prciperty lines of 10
feet. An accessory cottage may be located in a conforming accessory structure existing as of the date of
this section having a setback to any property line of less than 10 feet.
C. No accessory apartment or accessory cottage shall be installed or maintained except upon approval
by the Planning Board. The application procedures and required submittals shall be the ^ame as for minor
site plan approval, except that noticing shall be required for property owners within 100 feet of the
subject property and that scaled floor plans, with floor areas noted, shall be submitted as part of the
application. The applicafion fee for an accessory apartment or accessory cottage applictation shall be an
amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees. Approval for an accessory apartmeht shall be issued
to and run with the property owner.
D. The owner of a property on which the accessory apartment or accessory cottage is located shall occupy
at least one ofthe dwelling units on the premises as his primary residence. For the purposes of this §
230-41C ofthe Zoning Code, the word "owner" shall mean: any individual who is an owher ofthe subject
premises, including a joint tenant, tenant in common or tenant by the entireties; or the grantor and/or
beneficiary of a trust that owns the subject premises; or the owner of a majority of ^he membership
interest/share interest in an LLC or corporafion that owns the premises. Notwithstandi4g the foregoing,
approval may be given for construction with an accessory apartment or accessory cottage on a lot as
permitted hereunder by a party who intends to sell the premises to an owner who will occtipy the premises
as required. The accessory apartment or accessory cottage carmot be occupied as such junless and until
the owner is occupying the primary dwelling unit or is taking occupancy of the access()ry apartment or
accessory cottage.
i

Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessor^ apartment or
accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the Building Department confirming

the new owner will reside in the premises as required and that they are aware of the laws regarding
accessory apartments and accessory cottages and will remain in compliance. Such notice shall be
provided within 90 days of the change of ownership. Failure to timely file will resul| in a revocation of
the accessory apartment or accessory cottage approval and the new owner will haVe to make a new
applicafion.
E. Only one accessory apartment or accessory cottage per lot containing a single-family detached
dwelling shall be permitted.
F. The character, degree and extent of any additions to the residence or new accessor^ structure shall be
a factor to be considered by the Planning Board in approval of an applicafion for an adcessory apartment
or accessory cottage.
i
G. An accessory apartment shall have separate access, not observable from the street, unless there is a
single access from the front ofthe building with a split access inside the building. \
H. All code requirements under Village law and other applicable laws and regulations: shall be complied
with and a building permit obtained for any changes or alterations requiring such permit. The building
permit fee for an accessory apartment or accessory cottage shall be reduced by 50%. :
I. The habitablefloorarea of an accessory apartment or accessory cottage shall be no le^s than 300 square
feet and no greater than the lesser of 800 square feet or, in the case of an accessory apartment, 40% of
the habitable floor area of the dwelling in which it is contained, or, in the case of an Accessory cottage,
the size ofthe single-family detached dwelling. In any case, the Planning Board shall have the authority
to approve a greater or lesser amount of floor area if warranted by the specific circumstances of a
particular building or lot.
\
J. The building shall, to the degree reasonably feasible, maintain the character and appeiranee of a singlefamily dwelling.
i

K. No additional parking shall be mandatory for an accessory apartment or accessory Cottage, however,
a parking assessment shall be made by the Plaiming Board on a case-by-case basis duiiing review of the
applicafion, and the Planning Board shall have the authority to require additional parking based upon
such review. No seasonal hardship permit as referenced in § 215-29C shall be granted to a property with
an accessory apartment unless same was given prior to November 1, 2023.
\
L. I f the premises are not serviced by the Village sewer system, approval of the Westchester County
Department of Health shall be obtained before Plarming Board approval.
M. There shall be a limitation on the issuance of accessory apartment and accessory cottage permits so
that no more than 50 permits total (combined accessory apartments and accessory: cottages) are in
existence at any time.
:

Section Two; Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for ahy reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or'other authority of
competent jurisdiefion, such portion shall be deemed a separate distinct and independent portion. Such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall
confinue in full force and effect.
Section Three:
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New YorkjState Secretary of
State in accordance with Secfion 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this locfil law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
'
i

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
i hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on January 10
2o24
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law,

[
of 2 0 2 1 _ _ of
y^/as duly passed by the
, in accordfince with the applicable
•
!

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No,
'
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
.
\ivas duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
!
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No,

^ of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

vyas duly passed by the
on

20

of

. and was (a[5proved)(not approved)
\

(Name of Legistative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on _ j
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")

20

.

i

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held !on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

i

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

^.of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

w i s duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20^^

, and was (aptj)roved)(not approved)
on

'20„^

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed a i of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-witle basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town *^here such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

:

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
of 20.
of
1 hereby certify that the loca! law annexed hereto, designated as local law No,
the City of _
„
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisi )ns of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified^ electors of such city voting
thereon at the {speciai)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
1
of 20.
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
2 0 _ _ „ , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a uni: and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said genera! election, beqame operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.
the same is a
I further certify that I have compared the preceding iocal law with the original on file in this offi
manner indicated in
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally
paragraph ,
above.
Clerk ofth^'courily le^islaJpJe body, City, Town or Village Cl££k.or
offimf^esignated by local legislative bod
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the follo^ng resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York; with a 5-0
vote.
Resolution's of2024
WHEREAS the Village Board wishes to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of th. Village Code to
update regulations related to accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages in residential
districts, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 21 of 2023 has been drafted for such burposes, and
WHEREAS the Village has completed Part I of a Short Environmental Assessi^ient Form (EAF)
and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF), and
WHEREAS the Village Board has refened the draft law and other documentat on to the Village
Planning Board, Waterfront Advisory Committee, and Westchester County P anning Board in
accordance with Village and County Law, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received comments from the Westchester ounty Planning
Board, Village Plarming Board, and Waterfront Advisory Committee, and has taken these
comments into consideration, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 21
of 2023, which was opened and closed on December 20, 2023,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitaiization Program,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency
with the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
j

WHEREAS on December 20, 2023, the Village Board reviewed the Environment Assessment
Form Part II and the Village's Local Waterfront Revitaiization Program policies by the Village
Board to determine consistency related to the adoption of Local Law Introductory !NO. 21 of 2023,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as foUows: The Village Board of Trustees makes the
following findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and the eohsistency ofthe
Proposed Action with those policies and conditions ofthe LWRP which it found ^ipplicable:
POLICY JA: Existing planning and zoning documents should he reviewed and dmended where
necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and
policies.
\
POLICY 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public service^ and facilities
essential to such development are adequate, except when such development has special functional
requirements or other characteristics which necessitate its location in other coastal areas.
POLICY SA: When feasible, development within the ViHage shouldbe directed within the current

service area ofexisting water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas \vhere distribution
lines currently exist
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specificaUy discussed above, were
reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of iTrustees confirms
its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law to update i^egulations related
to accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages in residential districts, tomplies with the
policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts the
EAF Parts II and III Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a Negative
Declaration in connection with this action, and
i
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 21 of 2023, to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village! Code to update
regulations related to accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages in residential districts,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 1 of 2024.
Dated: January 10,2024

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)

'

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an origipal on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of ^aid Village held
on the 10^*^ of January 2024.
i
IN WITNESS WHI
Village tb--^^*^'

(Seal)

ave hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal ofthe said
anuart 2024.


