---
title: "LL 11-2024: TO ADD NEW ARTICLE IVB TO CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2024-07-12
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 11-2024: TO ADD NEW ARTICLE IVB TO CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-07-12
---

Local Law 11-2024
Filed: 2024-07-12
TO ADD NEW ARTICLE IVB TO CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON ESTABLISHING THE INDIAN BROOK CROTON GORGE INTER MUNICIPAL WATERSHED PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT (WPOD)

New York State Department of State
Division OfCorporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ nr^l I

Filinn

Albany, NY 12231-0001

i-OGd/ L d W r u i n g

www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
• C o u n t y D C i t y D T o w n IXjViliage
STATE RECORDS
(Selectone:)

^

Of Croton-on-Hudson

LocalLawNo.

JUL 13-2024

11

A local law

of the year 2024
ARTICLE IVB TO CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE

(Insert Title)

OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON ESTABLISHING THE INDIAN
BROOK-CROTON GORGE INTER-MUNICIPAL WATERSHED
PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT (WPOD)
Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

DTown

^Village

(Select one.)

Of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

6/3/24

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 11 of 2024
A LOCAL LAW TO ADD NEW ARTICLE IVB TO CHAPTER 230 ZONING
OF THE CODE OF THE V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON ESTABLISHING
THE INDIAN BROOK-CROTON GORGE INTER MUNICIPAL WATERSHED
PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT (WPOD)

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to add new Article IVB, Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed
Protection Overlay District (WPOD), to read as follows:
§ 230-20.8

Findings and purpose.

The purpose of the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay
District is to protect the health and welfare of residents Uving within the boundaries ofthe ofthe
Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed by minimizing the potential for groundwater and surface
water contamination and taking steps to limit the severity of resource degradation. The Indian
Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed encompasses portions of five municipalities including the Towns
of Cortlandt, New Castle, and Ossining, and the Villages of Croton-on-Hudson and Ossining.
Since the actions of upstream municipalities can have as much of an impact on a downstream
municipality's land and water resources as those actions carried out locally, a commitment from
all municipalities within a watershed is critical to protecting the health of its resources. The intent
of this ordinance is to create a partnership for the comprehensive management ofthe Indian BrookCroton Gorge Watershed by creating provisions for:
1. Protecting and restoring the natural resources, most significantly the Croton River,
Indian Brook Reservoir, existing wetlands and groundwater drinking sources; and
2. Developing and implementing stormwater management practices that will improve
water quality; and
3. Promoting sustainable development through land use and environmental regulations;
and
4. Preserving and protecting fish, wildlife, and significant habitat; and
5. Educating the public.
§ 230-20.9

Definitions.

For purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
1

6/3/24
Agricultural Animal Waste: Manure and other animal waste derived from agricultural
industries.
Aquifer: A consolidated or unconsoHdated geologic formation, group of formations or part of a
formation capable of yielding a significant or economically useful amount of groundwater to
wells, springs or infiltration galleries.
Chloride Salt: Any bulk quantities of chloride compounds and other deicing compounds
intended for application to roads, including mixes of sand and chloride compounds in any
proportion where the chloride compounds constitute over 8% of the mixture. A bulk quantity
of chloride compounds means a quantity of 1,000 pounds or more but does not include chloride
compounds in a solid form, including granules, which are packaged in waterproof bags or
containers which do not exceed 100 pounds each.
Discharge: Any intentional or unintentional action or omission in the releasing, spilling, leaking,
pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, or dumping into the waters of the Village or onto lands
from which the discharged substances or material might flow or drain into said waters, or kito
waters outside the jurisdiction of the Village, when damage may result to the lands, waters, or
natural resources within the jurisdiction ofthe Village.
Fertilizer: Any commercially produced mixture generally containing phosphorous, nitrogen
and potassium which is applied to the ground to increase nutrients to plants.
Generator of Hazardous Waste: Any person or site whose act or process produces hazardous
waste.
Groundwater: Water contained in intercormected pores andfracturesin the saturated zone in an
aquifer.
Hazardous Substance: Any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof,
which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics
may cause, or significantly contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human
health, safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
Hazardous Waste: See 6 NYCRR Part 371 and amendments thereto for the identification and
listing of hazardous wastes.
Herbicide: Any substance or mixture of substances intended to prevent, destroy, repel, or
mitigate any weed, including those substances defined as herbicides pursuant to Environmental
Conservation Law § 33-0101, and amendments thereto.
Low Impact Development (LID): refers to systems and practices that use or mimic natural
processes that result in the infiltration, evapotranspiration or use of stormwater in order to protect
water quality and associated aquatic habitat.

6/3/24
Manure: Aiumal feces and urine.
Mining: Any operation which involves the breaking of the earth's surface for the purpose of
extracting and removing raw natural materials (such as topsoil) from the premises for the purpose
of sale or off-premises use in excess of 25 cubic yards.
Municipal Water Supply: Aquifers and watersheds within the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge
Watershed that serve as water sources for municipal water systems.
Municipal Water System: A water system which provides piped water to the public for human
consumption as defined and regulated by 10 NYCRR Subpart 5 -1.
Natural Recharge: The replenishment of underground water reserves.
Non-point Discharge: Discharges of pollutants not subject to SPDES (State Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System) pemiit requirements.
Overlay Map: The overlay map showing the boundaries of the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge
Watershed Protection Overlay District within the Village.
Pest: Any insect, rodent, fimgus or weed; or any other form of terrestrial or aquatic plant or
animal life or virus, bacteria or other microorganism (except viruses, bacteria or other
microorganisms on or in living man or other living animals) which the Commissioner of
Enviromnental Conservation declares to be a pest as provided in Environmental Conservation
Law §33-0101.
Pesticide: Any substance or mixture of substances intended to prevent, destroy, repel, or mitigate
any pest, including any substances defined as pesticides pursuant to Environmental Conservation
Law § 33-0101 et seq. and amendments thereto.
Petroleum: Oil or petroleum of any kind and in any form including but not limited to oil,
petroleum fiiel oil, oil sludge, oil refuse, oil mixed with other waste, cmde oil, gasoUne, and
kerosene, as defined in 6 NYCRR Part 597.1(7) and amendments thereto.
Point Source Discharge: Pollutants discharged from a point source as defined in Envirorunental
Conservation Law §17-0105 and amendments tiiereto.
Pollutant: Any material or byproduct determined or suspected to be hazardous to human health
or the envirormient as defined in in Environmental Conservation Law §17-0105.
Solid Waste: Includes all maimer of useless or unwanted or discharged solid or semisolid
nontoxic, domestic, commercial, industrial, institutional, construction and demolition waste
materials, except hazardous, toxic, chemical, human or rendering wastes.
State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ("SPDES"): The system estabUshed pursuant
to Article 17 Title 8 of Environmental Conservation Law for issuance of permits authorizmg

6/3/24
discharges to tiie waters of the state ofNew York.
Steep Slopes: Any slope greater than 15 percent and as defined in Chapter 195, Steep Slope
Protection, in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code.
Stormwater Hotspots: a land use or activity that generates higher concentrations of
hydrocarbons, trace metals, or toxicants than are found in typical stormwater runoff, based on
monitoring studies. For purposes of the Indian Brook Croton Gorge Watershed Protection
Overlay District, the following land uses, and activities are deemed stormwater hotspots:
Vehicle salvage yards and recycling facilities
Vehicle fueling stations
Vehicle service and maintenance facilities
Vehicle and equipment cleaning facilities
Fleet storage areas (bus, truck, etc.)
Industrial sites
Marinas (service and maintenance)
Outdoor liquid container storage
Outdoor loading/unloading facilities
Public works storage areas
Facilities that generate or store hazardous materials
Commercial container nursery
Other land uses and activities as designated by an appropriate review authority
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP): A plan for controlling stormwater runoff
and pollutants from a site during and after construction activities as regulated in Chapter 196,
Stormwater, Drainage, Erosion and Water Pollution Control, of the Village of Croton-onHudson Village Code.
Surface Waters of the State of New York: Lakes, bays, sounds, ponds, impounding reservoirs,
springs, rivers, streams, creeks, estuaries, marshes, inlets, canals, the Atlantic Ocean within the
territorial seas ofthe State ofNew York and all other bodies of surface water, natural or artificial,
inland or coastal^ fresh or salt, public or private (except those private waters that do not combine
or effect a junction with natural surface or underground waters), which are wholly or partially
within or bordering the state or within its jurisdiction. Storm sewers and waste treatment systems,
including treatment ponds or lagoons which also meet the criteria of this definition, are not waters
of the state. This exclusion applies only to man-made bodies of water which neither were
originally created in waters ofthe state (such as a disposal area in wetlands) nor resulted from
impoundment of waters ofthe state.
Wastewater: Water that is not stormwater, is contaminated with pollutants and is or will be
discarded.
Wastewater Treatment System: Any treatment plant, sewer, disposal field, lagoon, pumping
station, septic system, collection and distribution pipes, on-site disposal systems and seepage
units, or other system not specifically mentioned in this definition, installed for the purpose of
transport, treatment, neutralization, stabilization, storage, or disposal of wastewater.

6/3/24

Water body: Any body of water which exists at least three months of the year as defined in
Chapter 227, Wetiands, ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code.
Watercourse. Any identifiable channel through which water flows continuously or
intermittently as defined in Chapter 227, Wetiands, of tiie Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village
Code.
Watershed. The geographic region within which water drains to a particular wetland, water
body, or watercourse.
Watershed Protection Overlay District: Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal
Watershed Protection Overlay District. The Watershed for specific municipal water supplies,
as designated on the official Watershed Protection Overlay District Map[l] and described in §
230-20.9 of this chapter.
Water Supply: The groundwater resources of the watershed, or the groundwater resources used
for a particular well or community water system in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge watershed.
Well: Any present or future artificial excavation used as a source of public or private water
supply which derives water from the interstices of the rocks or soils which it penetrates including
bored wells, drilled wells, driven wells, but excluding ditches or tunnels, used to convey
groundwater to the surface.
Wellhead Buffer: An area surrounding a municipal water system well, designated as a critical
area for protecting the well, created by a two hundred foot radius around each protected well.
Wetland Buffer Areas: An area surrounding a wetiand, watercourse or water body that is
subject to the regulations specified herein. Within the Indian-Brook Croton Gorge Watershed
Protection Overlay District it is defined as the land area within 150 linear feet along the surface,
away from, and around the perimeter of the outermost boundary of a wetland or watercourse
or water body. A buffer is intended to provide protection from human activity and other
encroachment associated with development.
§ 230-20.10

Applicability.

1. The provisions of this section shall be appUcable to all new land use, constmction, or
subdivision. Existing land use, construction, improvements and subdivisions within the
Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District
initiated or completed prior to the effective date of adoption of this chapter are not subject
to the requirements herein.
2. These prohibitions, restrictions, and principles shall be applied within the Watershed
Protection Overlay District through the existing building and other land use permit, site
plan review, and code enforcement procedures of each municipaUty in the Indian BrookCroton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District by its officers and

6/3/24
boards. Additionally, all development in the watershed shall be in accordance with New
York State Department of Environmental Conservation regulations related to
environmental protection and stormwater management.
3. Site plan review by the Planning Board is required for all new activities or property uses
in the Watershed Protection Overlay District, as required by §230-67, and shall take Into
consideration the requirements and principles outlined in this chapter.
4. Within the Watershed Protection Overlay District, ail major subdivisions shall be designed
as a conservation/cluster subdivision vrith a minimum of 30% ofthe parcel permanently
preserved.
§230-20.11

Boundaries.

1. The boundaries Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection
Overlay District is establisUed on a map entitled "Indian Brook-Croton Gorge InterMunicipal WatersUed Protection Overlay District, WestcUester County, NY 2023"
(watershed map), which is adopted simultaneously herein. The particular municipal water
supplies protected under this chapter include:
i. Indian Brook Reservoir/Indian Brook Basin - serves as a drinking water source
for portions of the Town and ViUage of Ossining, and portions of the Town of New
Castie
ii. Croton Gorge Basin and Croton River Aquifer - a water source for the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson water system and a water source for individual wells within
portions of the Town of Cortlandt and the Town ofNew Castle.
2. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries shown on the Watershed Map, the following
shall apply:
i. Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately foUowing a street, railroad, or
highway line or centerlines thereof, such lines shall be constmed as said boundaries.
ii. Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot lines, such lot
lines shall be constmed to be said boundaries. However, a survey plat prepared by a
registered land surveyor may be submitted to the municipality as evidence tUat one
or more properties along these boundaries do not lie within the protected area.
iii. Where the boundaries Ue at a scaled distance of more than 25 feet from any parallel
lot line, the boundaries shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the
watershed map.
iv. Where the boundaries lie at a scaled distance of less tiian 25 feet from any parallel
lot line, the boundaries shall be constmed to be the lot line.
v. When a large parcel is bisected by the boundary, the applicant may submit a detailed
topographical map of the property as documentation of those portions ofthe property
that are within as well as outside the boundary.
vi. Where other uncertainty exists, the authorized approval agency shall interpret the
Watershed Map as to location of such boundaries. The municipaUty may, at the

6/3/24
applicant's expense, consult with agencies or others in determination of a project's
location within a protected area and applicability of these standards.
3. A list ofthe specific parcels all or partially included in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge
Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District within the Village is set forth in
Attachment F of this Chapter and the Zoning Map is hereby amended to include the parcels
described in the Attachment F of this Chapter in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge InterMunicipal Watershed Protection Overlay District.
§ 230-20.12

Effect of district.

Within the WPOD, all underlying land use district mles remain in effect, except as they are
specifically modified by this Article. In case of a conflict between this Article and the underlying
use regulations, the more restrictive shall control. Nothing in this Article shall be constmed to
allow uses that are not permitted by the underlying land use district.
§ 230-20.13

Prohibited uses and practices.

The following uses shall be prohibUed in the WPOD District:
1. Disposal of hazardous material or solid waste.
2. Treatment of hazardous material, except remediation programs authorized by a govemment
agency for treating hazardous material that existed on the site prior to the adoption of this
land use law
3. The creation or manufacturing of any hazardous materials
4. Dry cleaning, dyeing, printing, photo processing, and any other business that stores, uses,
or disposes of hazardous material, unless all facilities and equipment are designed and
operated to prevent tUe release or discharge of hazardous material.
5. Disposal of septage or septic sludge
6. Automobile service and gas filling stations
7. New underground storage of petroleum
8. Petroleum product pipelines
9. VeUicle Storage Yards/Tmck terminals
10. Contractor's Yards
11. The bulk storage of deicing salt, except in municipally-approved impervious stmctures
12. Installation of dams, water diversions, and stream cUannelization except undertaken
directly in relationsUip to drinking water resources.
13. Clearing of more than 30,000 square feet of vegetation without a site plan approval.
14. Landfill of domestic, industrial, constmction and demolition, or hazardous materials.
15. Junkyards
16. Land spreading of sludge or ash, including domestic wastewater or waste industrial process
material, except for ash from individual residential heating equipment.
17. New dry wells directly cormected to any fioor drain, garage drain, wash basin or sink.
18. New fuel storage facilities in any amount greater tUan 660 gallons.
19. Commercial trash containers and dumpsters which are not under a roof or which are located
so that leachate from the receptacle could escape unfiltered and untreated.

'

6/3/24

20. Any mining activities including consolidated and solution mining activities, unless
permitted by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
21. Point source discharges, other than discharges authorized by permits issued by the New
York State Department of Environmental Conservation.
§ 230-20,14

Performance criteria.

1. AU constmction activities (as defined by the agency having approving jurisdiction) that
involve soil disturbances greater than 5,000 sf shall comply witii the latest edition of the
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) Stormwater
Manual. All construction activities shall be required to meet the standards set forth in the
SPDES General Permit for constmction activities that involve soil disturbances greater
than 5,000 sf and all stonnwater pollution prevention plans sUall meet water quantity and
quality controls for all new impervious surfaces as outlined below.
2. Any new constmction activity which creates new impervious surfaces greater than 5,000
sf shall be treated for water quality volume (WQv), peak flows (cfs) and volume (cf) as
outlined in the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC)
Stormwater Management Design Manual, latest edition, and Chapter 196, Stormwater,
Drainage, Erosion and Water Pollution Control, and include enhanced requirements for
pollutants of concem as outlined and incorporated in the Stormwater Management Design
Manual, latest edition.
3. Low Impact Development (LID) Practices - shall be provided to the extent feasible for all
new or redevelopment within the watershed including the use of bioretention facilities, rain
gardens, vegetated rooftops, rainwater harvesting, and permeable pavements.
4. Pollutant loadings will not damage any wetland, waterbody or watercourse.
5. Grading and removal of vegetation is minimized for all construction.
6. Septic systems must be pumped at least once during every 3-year period.
7. The storage and stockpiling of manure and other animal waste for use in agricultural
operations, agricultural use of fertilizers and land application of manure, and pesticide
(including herbicide) storage and use shall comply, to the maximum extent possible, with
the practices detailed in the most current versions of "Controlling Agricultural Nonpoint
Source Water Pollution in New York State - A Guide to the Selection of Best Management
Practices to Protect Water Quality," published by the Bureau of Technical Services and
Research, Division of Water, or "Agricultural Management Practices Catalogue for
Nonpoint Source Pollution Prevention and Water Quality Protection in New York State.
8. Fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides shall not be applied in a marmer or at a rate which
contributes to or causes a contravention of the water quality standards set forth in 6
NYCRR 700 to 705.
9. Pesticide storage and use (including herbicides) are subject to the approval of, and shall
comply with the regulations of, the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation.
10. Disposal of pesticide, including herbicides, is prohibited unless authorized by a permit
issued by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.
11. Disposal of water used for pesticide makeup water or for washing of pesticide equipment
is prohibited unless authorized by a permit issued by the New York State Department of
Environmental Conservation.

6/3/24
12. Use of streams as sources of water for the washing of equipment used in conjunction with
pesticide or herbicide appUcation is prohibited.
13. Lawn chemicals (pesticides and herbicides) shall not be applied within 25 linear feet of
any watercourse, or within a wellUead buffer area.
14. Storage of chloride salts and coal shall be in structures designed to minimize contact with
precipitation and constmcted on low-permeability pads designed to control seepage and
mn-off
15. Chloride salt application. Deicing chloride salt use is restricted to the minimum amount
needed for public safety as determined by the Superintendent of Public Works.
16. Any petroleum storage tank(s) installed or replaced after the effective date of this chapter
must be aboveground or fiilly visible for inspection within the basement or other interior
space, and secondary containment is required for all new tanks.
§ 230-20.15

General Provisions for Wetlands, Watercourses, Water Bodies, Wetland
Buffers Areas and Steep Slopes.

These regulations apply to all wetlands, watercourses, water bodies and buffer areas as defined in
Chapter 227, Wetlands of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code and located within the
Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District (regardless of
size).
1. Development of wetlands, watercourses, water bodies and buffer areas are to be avoided
except where no reasonable altemative exists or where the applicant would otherwise suffer
undue hardship i f a permit is not issued. In the event such development is approved,
impacts shall be minimized to the greatest extent practicable, and a mitigation plan shall
be prepared.
2. All applications for permits to disturb wetlands, watercourses, water bodies and buffer
areas in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay
District shall follow the requirements contained in Chapter 227, Wetlands, ofthe Village
of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code unless a more stringent or restrictive requirement is
listed in this section.
3. As a condition of the granting of any wetland permit within the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge
Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District, the approving authority shall
require that the applicant submit a mitigation plan per the requirements listed in Chapter
227, Wetlands, of the VUlage of Croton-on-Hudson ViUage Code.
4. Within the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay
District, the applicant shall be required to create replacement wetlands or restore, recreate
or enhance existing wetlands equal to twice the area of wetland directiy impacted.
5. Within the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay
District, buffers shall be regulated as follows:
Buffers
i. Buffers along wetlands and waterbodies (as defined in CUapter 227, Wetiands, of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code) must extend a minimum of 150
feet horizontally away from and paralleling the delineated wetland boundary.

6/3/24
ii. Buffers along watercourses (Chapter 227, Wetiands, of the Village of Croton-onHudson Village Code) extend a minimum of 150 feet horizontally away from and
paralleling the highwater mark or level of bank full discharge. In undeveloped
areas, the buffer shall also be extended to include the 100 year floodplain.
iii. Buffers along steep slopes adjacent to wetlands shall extend 150 feet horizontally.
Buffer vegetation
i. Planting within buffers shall be based on a site-specific planting plan designed to
maximize the buffer's capacity to intercept stormwater mnoff, stabilize banks,
improve water quality, and provide habitat. Planting shall incorporate:
a. a diverse mix of perennial native species
b. trees and shrubs with dense ground cover to protect soil
c. salt tolerant plants in areas wUere road salt is used
d. steep slopes: native perermial grasses; trees and woody sUrubs along tUe
water's edge
e. bank erosion control: plants with fibrous root systems; deep-rooted woody
species
Allowable buffer uses
i. unpaved foot paths, recreational access, revegetation planting and mitigation
planting per the requirements listed above, manual removal of invasive species,
removal of trees that pose a safety hazard.
Restricted buffer uses
i. new impervious surfaces, constmction of roads, structures or pipelines
ii. removal of vegetation or trees (except for safety purposes)
iii. excavation and grading
iv. additional lawn
V. mining
vi. septic tank drain fields
vii. agriculture and livestock
viii.
de-icing application of road salt
ix. waste disposal or dumping of trash, yard waste and debris
X. application of lawn-based pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers
xi. dams, water diversions, stream channelization
xii. All other activities not specifically listed above are subject to Federal, State and
local permit procedures
6. Special provisions.
These special provisions apply to new development in previously developed areas:
i. The protected buffer shall be as wide as the site allows, subject to the above-listed
conditions where possible, and maintaining as much vegetated cover as possible
within 150 feet of wetland or watercourse, especially in areas where bank erosion
is evident.

10

'

6/3/24

ii. Altemative or additional conservation practices (including low impact development
(LID)) to reduce runoff load into a wetland or watercourse shall be appUed.
§ 230-20.16

Wellhead Buffers and Stormwater Hotspots.

Within tiie Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District, no
disturbance witiiin 200 feet of any wellhead or stormwater hotspot shall be permitted. WelUiead
buffer areas and stormwater hotspots shall be protected as follows:
1. Constmction activities within 200 feet of a wellhead is prohibited except those used for
municipal water system purposes such as pumping, treatment, and control facilities and
equipment. Wellhead buffer areas shall not be used for any purpose other than municipal
water supply, except when a permit has been issued by the Village Board for nonintmsive
recreation uses sucU as picnicking, nature study, fishing, or hiking. The wellhead buffer
shall be posted prohibiting trespass for any purpose except as permitted in this subsection.
2. Construction activities within 200 feet of a stormwater hotspot is prohibited.
§ 230-20.17 Enforcement.
1. Compliance orders. The Building Inspector or Village Engineer is authorized to order in
writing the remedying of any condition or activity found to exist in, on or about any
building, stmcture, or premises in violation of this chapter. Upon finding that any such
condition or activity exists, the Building Inspector or Village Engineer shall issue a
compliance order.
i.

The compUance order shall:
a. Be in writing;
b. Be dated and signed by the Building Inspector or Village Engineer;
c. Specify the condition or activity that violates this chapter;
d. Specify the provision or provisions which is/are violated by the specified
condition or activity;
e. Specify the period of time which the Building Inspector or Village
Engineer deems to be reasonably necessary for achieving compliance;
f Direct that compliance be achieved within the specified period oftime;and
g. State that an action or proceeding to compel compliance may be instituted if
compliance is not achieved within the specified period of time.

2. The Engineering Department shall cause the compliance order, or a copy thereof, to be
served on the owner of the affected property personaUy or by registered mail. The
Engineering Department shall be permitted, but not required, to cause the compliance
order, or a copy thereof, to be served on any builder, architect, tenant, contractor,
subcontractor, construction superintendent, or their agents, or any other person taking part
or assisting in work being performed at the affected property personally or by certified
mail; provided, however, that failure to serve any person mentioned in this sentence shall
not affect the efficacy of the compliance order.

II

6/3/24
§ 230-20.18

Penalties for offenses.

1. Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be subject to tbe applicable
penalties under this chapter, and any other applicable code or ordinance, without limitation.
The chapter penalties are:
i.

Fines. The person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be liable for a
civil penalty of not more than $250 for each day or part thereof during which such
violation shall be continued.

ii.

Alternatively, or in addition to any action to recover civil penalties provided by
Subsection i , the Village Attomey may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent, restrain, enjoin, correct or abate any violation of or to
enforce any provision of this chapter.

Section 2. Severability.
Should any section or provision of this article be declared, adjudged or ordered null, void,
voidable, or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such finding of invalidity shall not
affect the validity of tUe remaining portions of this article.
Section 3. When effective.
This chapter shall take effect upon filing with the New York Secretary of State.

12

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this tocal law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

June 26

of 20^^
^^^ly pggg^^
20 24

of
^^^^

jn accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
-_-_—_—__
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legisiative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

2Q| I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name ofLegislalive Body)
(repassed after disapproval) b y t h e

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(specia!)(annual) election held on
20
4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Execufive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as iocal law No.
of 20
of
the City of
.—, having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affimiative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the {special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption ofCharter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
_ _ S t a t e of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified eiectors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on fiie in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
C.\^rk^f\h(^c.ni\f<'i^ ItegislativR hnriy, Pity, T n w n n r y j l t a g e Clerk or

fKJfficer designated-bylocal legislative body T ^ T ^ - ^
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

..J^

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution was adopted by
the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
*
Resolution #137-2024
WHEREAS the Indian Brook - Croton Gorge Conservation Action Plan was completed in 2007 to help preserve this
natural area in Westchester County, and
WHEREAS since that time, the Town of Cortlandt, Town ofNew Castle, Town of
Ossining, Village of Ossining and Village of Croton-on-Hudson have worked together
to implement various aspects of the plan, and
WHEREAS the five municipalities received grant funding from New York State to
implement an overlay zoning district for areas of the watershed, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on May 15, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS on June 12, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and review described in detail in
Parts 2 and 3 of the Full EAF "Determination of Significance" attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2024, which was
opened and closed on June 12, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the Waterfront Advisory
Committee with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own detennination of consistency with the LWRP policy standards and
conditions, and
WHEREAS on June 12, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and
the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:

POLICY 5: Encourage tiie location of development in areas where public services andfacilities essential to
such development are adequate.
POLICY 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the current service
area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
POLICY 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved, and, where practical,
restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.
POLICY 7A The quality of the Croton River and Bay Significant Coastal Fish and Wildlife Habitat and
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be protected and improved for conservation,
economic, aesthetic, recreational, and other public uses and values. Its resources shall be protected from
the threat of pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.

POLICY IB: Materials that can degrade water quality and decade or destroy the ecological system of the
Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat and the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in
the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat or Haverstraw Bay Significant
Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted within the area of influence of the habitat unless best
available technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
POLICY 7D: Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the Croton River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay
Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitats and shore/ands shall be included in any pro-ams for cleanup of any
adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
POLICY 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots andfrom storm sewer overflows shall be effectively
managed so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants from polluting surface and ground water and
impact to the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in erosion or flooding
at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity in the Croton River and Hudson
River spawning areas shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be
adversely affected.
POLICY 7G: Construction activity of any kind must not cause significant degradation
impact identified significant fish and wildlife habitats.

of water quality or

POLICY 7H: Habitat-related policies identified in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed
Action Plan will be considered in actions proposed for these areas (see Appendix C).

Conservation

POLICY 8: Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area from the introduction of hazardous wastes
and other pollutants which bio~accumulate in the food chain or which cause significant sub-lethal or lethal
effect on those resources.
POLLCY 9A: Ensure continued recreational use and public access to the rivers through Village-owned land
adjacent to the railroad parking lot, at Croton Point Park, at Senasqua and Croton Landing Parks, along
the Croton River, and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts should be made to increase opportunities for public
access and enjoyment in these areas.
POLICY 9B: Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated significant fish and
wildlife habitats, on the Audubon Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle Arboretum, Gouveia Park and on other
public or private lands within the Village where wildlife habitats are located, as well as the protection of
such resources.
POLICY 19: Protect, maintain, and increase the level and types of access to public water related
resources
andfacilities.

recreation

POLICY I9A: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the Hudson and Croton
Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.
POLICY I9B: Increase public access to areas that offer physical and visual connection to the Hudson River
or Croton River and Bay.
POLICY I9D: Improve and maintain access to Croton River and Bay at the Village owned Echo Canoe
Launch south of the Village parking lots at the Croton Harmon Station.
POLICY 21 A: Boating and fishing activities should be encouraged provided that they do not restrict other

water-related recreational opportunities and are undertaken in a manner compatible with existing waterdependent uses.
POLICY 25A: Establish and protect identified public viewsheds of the Hudson River, including, but not
limited to the public views of the Hudson River from the western shoreline of the Village, and of the Croton
River and Gorge.
POLICY 32: Encourage the use of alternative or innovative sanitary waste systems in small communities
where the costs of conventional facilities are unreasonably high, given the size of the existing tax base of
these communities.
POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater runoff and
combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.
POLICY 33 A: The flow ofstormwater discharge shall be controlled to limit the flow ofpollutants from street
and parking areas, etc. directly into the rivers and water bodies.
POLICY 37A: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should
be exerted in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff andflooding from new construction.
POLICY 38: The quality and quantity of surface water and ground water supplies will be conserved and
protected, particularly where such waters constitute the primary or sole source of water supply.
POLICY 39: The transport, storage, treatment and disposal of solid wastes, particularly hazardous wastes,
within coastal areas will be conducted in such a manner so as to protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife habitats, recreation areas, important agricultural lands and scenic
resources.
POLICY 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the benefits derived from these
areas.
POLICY 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing damage from
erosion or siltation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural habitats and protecting against flood and
pollution.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were reviewed and found not
to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its determination
that the Proposed Action, the adoption ofa local law amending Chapter 230, ofthe Code ofthe Village of Croton-onHudson to add new Article IVB, Indian Brook -Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District
(WPOD), and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3
Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2024, to amend Chapter 230, ofthe Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to add
new Article IVB, Indian Brook -Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District (WPOD),
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 11 of 2024.
Dated: June 26,2024

************************************
state ofNew York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State ofNew York, do
hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a
regular meeting ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 10"* of January 2024.
IN WITNESS WI^^EOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village thisi 1*
day of January 2<ll4.


