---
title: "LL 17-2023: A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2023-10-06
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 17-2023: A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-10-06
---

Local Law 17-2023
Filed: 2023-10-06
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ n r p / / PM/ F i i i n n
LUUa/

l-aVV

Albany, NY 12231-0001

l i n i i y

www/dos.state ny us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

nTown

iXlVillage

r

^ ^ — ^

(Select one:)

|

-'^^

FILED

'

of Croton-on-Hudson

!

S W E RECORDS

OCT 0 6 2023
Local Law No.

17

of the year 2023

foBPARTMENT O F STATC

A local law ™ AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230

"~

(Insert Title)

ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

nCity

GTown

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 17-2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230
ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-4, Definitions, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
is amended to revise the definition of "Family" as follows:
FAMILY
One or more persons living together in a single dwelling unit as a traditional family or the
functional equivalent of a traditional family. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that five or more
persons living together in a single dwelling unit, who are not related by blood, adoption or
marriage, do not constitute the functional equivalent of a traditional family. In determining the
functional equivalent of a traditional family, the following criteria shall be present:
1. The group shares the entire dwelling unit.
2. The group lives and cooks together as a single housekeeping unit.
3. The group shares expenses for food, rent, utilities or other household expenses.
4. The group is permanent and stable, and not transient or temporary in nature.
5. Any other factor reasonably related to whether the group is the functional equivalent
of a family.
Section Two. Section 230-17, General Commercial C-2 District, of the Zoning Law ofthe Village
of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to revise subsection B.(7), as follows:
B. Special permit uses. Subject to issuance of a special permit by the Village Board of Trustees,
the following uses:
(7) Automobile sales and service agencies for the sale of new automobiles, accessories and
customary accessory uses are hereby authorized. Used car sales and automobile rentals are
permitted only as an accessory use to new car sales, as described in the following §230-17B.(7)(a)(m). Such automobile sales and service agencies must be franchised dealers or factory-owned
dealers of new automobiles, and all operations must be conducted from the same site subject to
the following rules, regulations and conditions:
Section Three. Section 230 Attachment B, Schedule of Uses of the Zoning Law of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, is hereby eimended to add two uses to the "Special Permit Uses" column for
the General Commercial C-2 District, as follows:
11.
12.

Day-care centers in accordance with 230-17B.(9)
Tier 3 solar energy systems in accordance with 230-48.1
1

Section Four. Section 230-21, Multiple Development Use, of the Zoning Law of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to revise subsection F.(3), as follows:
F. Procedures for MDU designation and approval of site development plans.
(3) A petition for MDU designation and all supporting submissions shall be referred by the Village
Board of Trustees to the Planning Board, and a recommendation shall be made by the Planning
Board to the Village Board of Trustees pursuant to and within the terms provided by Article XVI
of this chapter. Subsequent to receipt of the recommendation of the Planning Board or to the
expiration of the above-mentioned term without recommendation of the Plarming Board and after
public hearing as provided by § 230-180C, the Village Board of Trustees shall act upon the
petition. If said decision should grant the petition and amend the Village Zoning Map, the decision
shall state the permitted uses, density, bulk and parking regulations and other regulations and
conditions, as provided in this chapter. Such conditions may include but are not confined to visual
and acoustical screening, land use mixes, order of construction and/or occupancy, vehicular and
pedestrian circulation systems, availability of sites within the area for necessary public services,
protection of natural sites and other such conditions that may be required by the public health,
safety and general welfare and the comfort and convenience of the public in general and of the
residents of the immediate neighborhood.
Section Five. Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is
hereby amended to revise subsection P(4)(a)[4], to read as follows:
[4] In addition, where the building is set back from the curbline a distance of 25
feet or more, not more than one freestanding sign with a total area on each face of
not more than 40 square feet may be erected; provided, however, that the Zoning
Board of Appeals may, in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 230-162B
of this chapter, authorize the Village Engineer to issue a special permit for the
erection or continuEUice of a freestemding sign with an area on each face not
exceeding 40 square feet or such lesser area as the Zoning Board of Appeals may
prescribe in instances where the building is set back from the curb or edge of
traveled way less than 25 feet but 15 feet or more, subject to such conditions as the
Zoning Board of Appeals may impose and with due regard to safety and other
objectives-set forth in § 230-162B where the Board shall find that:
[a] The building in connection with which such sign is used or to be used
was in existence on July 1, 1963, and has not after that date been altered to
cause it to be closer to the curbline or edge of traveled way; and
[b] Other pennitted signs are not, because of lack of visibility or other
reason, adequate in the determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals and,
for that or other reason, the Zoning Board of Appeals deems such sign to be
necessary or desirable.

Section Six. Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is
hereby amended to revise subsection P(4)(b), to read as follows:
(b) Motor vehicle service stations.
[1]
Unless otherwise required by law, signs shall be limited to one
freestanding sign and one exterior sign on each wall of a building fronting
on a street and shall otherwise conform to the conditions for accessory signs
set forth in Subsection P(4)(a).
[2]
In connection with the sale of used cars or rental of vehicles at a
service station. No temporary signs shall be permitted on the exterior of
vehicles. Signs in the interior of vehicles shall be limited to one per vehicle,
not to exceed 12 inches by 15 inches. Sign printing shall have characters
not larger than one inch.
Section Seven. Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is
hereby amended to revise subsection P(5)(a), to read as follows:
(a) Accessory signs shall be as permitted in the Central Commercial C-l District
as set forth in Subsection P(4).
Section Eight. Section 230-9. lA(10)(g), Section 230-16B.(4)(c); and Secfion 230-17 B.(9)(c), all
regarding Day Care Centers, are hereby amended to remove all references to the "Department of
Social Services" and replace same with the "Office of Children and Family Services."
Section Nine. Section 230 Attachment C, Area and Bulk Schedule, of the Zoning Law of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to revise the Habitable Floor Area for the RC:
One-Family Residence, as follows:
Perd.u.: 1,000
Main floor: n/a
Section Ten. Section 230 Attachment C, Area and Bulk Schedule, of the Zoning Law of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to revise the Habitable Floor Area for the RC:
Multiple Residence, as follows:
Per d.u.: 600
Main floor: 880
Section Eleven. Section 230-60, Public hearing; decision, ofthe Zoning Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
§230-6- Public hearing; decision.
The Board of Trustees shall, upon receipt of the report of the Planning Board or upon the
expiration of a term of 30 days, or such longer period as may be agreed to, in writing, by

the Planning Board and the applicant, from the date of receipt of the application by the
Planning Board, whichever event shall first occur, conduct within 62 days a public
hearing and within 62 days thereafter render its decision. The Board of Trustees, in
considering any application for a special permit hereunder, shall make findings on the
objectives and goals listed in § 230-58 and, in addition, may exercise such discretion
reserved for legislative matters so as to ensure that the public health, welfare and safety
shall be protected, that the environmental and land resources of the community shall be put
to the best possible use and that any authorization hereunder shall not createfiscalburdens
upon the community at large or an adverse impact upon adjacent property and its permitted
use by right under this chapter.
Section Twelve. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Thirteen. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. I Z
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on September 12
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 2o£2
of
^^as duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

3.

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in th|s-<5ffice"arTd~ttiat the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and ofthe whole of such original local law, and was finally^dopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
plirk of the county letaislative body. City, Town or Village Clerk or
jfficer designatklbylocal legislative body
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

^ci^lX^

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #197-2023
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend and update certain provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2023 which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on August 14, 2023, the Village Board declared itself to be Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the Proposed Action,
and referred the Proposed Action to the Village Planning Board, Waterfront Advisory Committee and Westchester County Planning Board for
comment in accordance with law, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received memoranda of support from the Villc^e Planning Board, Westchester County Planning Board and
Waterfront Advisory Committee regarding the Proposed Action, and
WHEREAS at its meeting on August 28, 2023, the Village Board reviewed Part 2 of the Short Environmental Assessment Form for this local law
and verbally answered the questions set forth therein based upon the entire record, and determined that no potential impacts were identified as
moderate to large, and therefore no additional analysis was required in a Part 3, and directed the preparation of the Part 2 and Part 3 forms and a
negative declaration under SEQRA for adoption, and
WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion andfindingswith respect to its SEQRA determination of significance as set forth
at the August 28,2023, meeting in written form, and
WHEREAS, at its meeting on August 28,2023, the Village Board reviewed each of the 44 policies and sub-policies thereunder set forth in the LWRP
and the explanation of each policy as set forth in the LWRP; and
WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion andfindingswith respect to its determination of consistency as set forth at the
August 28,2023, meeting in written form, and
WHEREAS a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2023 was opened and closed on September 12, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that based upon the entire record on the Proposed Action and the above, the Village Board of Trustees
hereby issues and adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto, and adopts a Negative Declaration under SEQRA in
connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies
and the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy lA: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and
amended where necessary to ensure development within the community is
consistent with adopted goals and policies.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED based upon the entire record on the Proposed Action and the above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its
determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law to amend and update provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2023 to update provisions ofthe
Zoning Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 17 of 2023.
Dated: September 12,2023
Stateof New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed
resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on the 12"'of September 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEiy^QF, I havphereiintn set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village this 22"^ day of September 2023.


