---
title: "LL 13-2025: TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2025-07-17
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 13-2025: TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-07-17
---

Local Law 13-2025
Filed: 2025-07-17
TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

N e w Y o r k State

NEW
YORK
STATE

O e p a r t m e n t o f S t a t e
r

Department of state
DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS,
STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany. NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Corporations, State Records & UCC

L o c a l L a w Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Ruie Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by tlie iegisiative body of the local government listed below:
1^

of the year 20 ^

Local Law Title: ^ , ^ ^ ^ ^ , A W TO R F P F A I

A N D R F P I A H F H H A P T F R PDR T R F F S , O F T H F

nonp

OF

THE VILLAGE QF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

Be it enanted by the Board of Trustees

^^^^^

(Name of Legislative Body)

• County

•

City

•

Town

0 Village

(Select one)

of Croton-on-Hudson

3S follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only
FILED
STATE RECORDS
JUL \ 7 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State Local L a w Index Number:

}3

of the year 20

{The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)
DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1, (Final adoption by local l e g i s l a t i v e b o d y only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

Croton-on-Hudson

Village Board of T r u s t e e s
—
(Wame of Legis/afiVe Body)
with the applicable provisions of law.

on

of

^ a s ^^^^ pgssed by the
July 0 9
^

^ „ 25
20

.
m accordance

2. (Passage by local legislative b o d y w i t h approval, n o d i s a p p r o v a l or repassage after d i s a p p r o v a l by t h e Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)
on

20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

{County){City)(Town){Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved) (not app roved) (re passed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer")

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason o f a (mandatory){permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote o f a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

in accordance with the appiicabie provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive r e f e r e n d u m a n d final adoption because n o valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

^on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")

20
requesting such referendum was filed as of

. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
20

in accordance with the

applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
w/lth the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f (Rev. 02/25)

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
the City of

of 20

of

having submitted to referendum pursuant to

the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20

became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certily that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number
the County of

of 20

of

State of New York, having been submitted to

the electors at the General Election of November

20

pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of

section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph

above.
Pauline DiSanto
Clerk of the county legislative body. Cjfy, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

(Sem

^

J"ly

2025

(Date)

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 3 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 13 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE
OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. The Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended by repealing
Chapter 208, Trees, and replacing it as follows:
"§208-L Purpose.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has a vital interest in the planting and preservation of
trees within its borders. The preservation of trees as defined herein within the Village is
necessary to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the Village because trees
provide shade, impede soil erosion, aid water absorption and retention, inhibit excess
runoff and flooding, enhance air quality, offer a natural barrier to noise, provide a natural
habitat for wildlife, provide screening, enhance property values and add to the aesthetic
quality of the community.
§208-2. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following term shall have the meaning indicated:
DEPARTMENT - The Superintendent of the Department of Public Works.
PRUNING - The removal or reduction of certain plant parts that are not required or are no
longer effective, in order to retain or improve the tree's health, natural habit, balance,
stature, value and contribution to the landscape design.
STREET/PUBLIC TREES — Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation
growing on land within theright-of-wayon private property or growing within the limits
of a Village Park or on Village owned property.
STREET/PUBLIC TREE PLAN -An annual plan for the care, preservation, pruning,
planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and
in other public areas.
TREE SIZEa. SMALL TREES are defmed as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than
13 feet but less than 26 feet;
b. MEDIUM TREES are defined as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than
26 feet but less than 52 feet; and
c. LARGE TREES are defined as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than
52 feet.

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES

TOPPING -The indiscriminate cutting back of tree branches to stubs or lateral branches
lhat are not large enough to assume the terminal role, which can lead to branch dieback,
decay and unstable sprout production from the cut ends, resulting in a potentially hazardous
situation once the sprouts become large and heavy.
§ 208-3. Designation of official custodian; duties.
The Superintendent of the Department of Public Works, hereinafter also referred to as the
"Department," shall serve as the official custodian of all street and public trees and, in
consultation with the Conservation Advisory Council, shall develop and update annually
and administer a plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas.
§ 208-4. Duties and responsibilities of Department.
The duties and responsibilities of the Department shall be to:
A.

Study, investigate, develop and or update annually a plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks,
along streets and in other public areas, hereinafter referred to as the "Street/Public
Tree Plan."

B.

Administer the Street/Public Tree Plan and consult with the Conservation Advisory
Council to determine the type and kind of trees to be planted upon Village streets,
Village parks or any other public land. The Department may also consult with a
certified urban forester, arborist or tree expert as needed and approved by the Board
of Trustees.

C.

Work with the Conservation Advisory Council which will disseminate news and
information regarding the selection, planting and maintenance of trees within Village
limits, including information about the Street/Public Tree Plan.

§ 208-5. Planting, maintenance, and removal.
A. It shall be the responsibility of the Department, or its designated agents, to plant, prune,
maintain, remove and replace trees, shrubs and other vegetation within the limits of any
public street, right-of-way, park or other public place as it may deem necessary to preserve
or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the Village and its streets, parks and public spaces.
B. No person or entity, other than the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or its designated agents,
shall plant any tree, shrub or other vegetation within the limits of any public street, rightof-way, park or other public place without written approval by the Department or in
accordance with §230-126.
C. No person or entity, other than the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or its designated agents,
shall spray, fertilize, treat, prune, remove, cut, or otherwise disturb any street or public tree,
shrub or other vegetation on any public street, right-of-way, park or other public place

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES

without written approval by the Department.
D. No person or entity, other than the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or its designated agents,
shall remove a tree, shrub, or other vegetation from within the limits of any public street,
right-of way, park or other public place without written approval by the Department or in
accordance with §230-126.
§ 208-6. Spacing of trees planted.
A. To achieve ideal growing conditions, the preferred distances for the spacing of street
trees will be in accordance with the following guidelines, unless otherwise determined by
the Department in consultation with the Conservation Advisory Council or a certified urban
forester or arborist:
(1) SMALL TREES - 30 feet apart;
(2) MEDIUM TREES - 40 feet apart; and
(3) LARGE TREES -50 feet apart.
§ 208-7. Distance from curbs and sidewalks.
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in
accordance with their species Tree Size, with final determinafion made by the Department.
§ 208-8. Distance from street corners and hydrants.
No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the
point of the nearest intersection curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer
than ten (10) feet to any fire hydrant.
§ 208-9. Distance from utilities.
A. Small and Medium street trees shall be planted at a minimum distance of three (3) lateral
feet from an underground waterline, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
B. Large street trees shall be planted at a minimum distance of five (5) lateral feet from any
underground waterline, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
§208-10. Rights of Village.
A.

The Village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove street trees
within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, sidewalks and public
land, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or convenience or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public spaces.

B.

The Department may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason by its nature, is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, waterlines or other public improvements or is affected

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
vvdth any injuriousfimgus,insect or other pest.
§ 208-11. Tree Topping prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity, other than the Village or its designated agents,
to top any street trees or public trees. Trees severely damaged by storm or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, may be exempted from this article at the determination of the Department.
§ 208-12. Responsibilities of property owners.
A. Every owner of any tree or shrub on private property overhanging any street or right-ofway within the Village shall prune the branches so that such branches:
(1) Shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp;
(2) Shall not obstruct the view of any street intersection or any traffic control
device; and
(3) Shall leave a clear space of eight (8) feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk.
B. Said owners shall also remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees or broken or
decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The Department
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with
the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility
of any traffic control device or sign or interferes with visibility at an intersection.
C. Every owner of any shrub, hedge, bush or other vegetation shall prune such vegetation
so that there shall be a clear space of six (6) lateral inches from any Village sidewalk.
§ 208-13. Removal of stumps.
While it is the goal of the Village to remove all stumps of street and public trees to below
the surface of the ground, the removal of stumps of street and public trees shall be
determined on an individual-case basis taking into account safety, aesthetics and the
environmental value of allowing the stump to deteriorate naturally.
§ 208-14. Removal of healthy trees prohibited.
In order to protect the Village's investment in time and resources in the street tree
program, it shall be unlawful to remove or cause the destruction of any healthy street tree
without prior approval of the Department.
§ 208-15. Consent required for deviations.
Any deviation from this article shall be unlawful without the express written consent of the
Superintendent of the Department.

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Villj^e of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
ARTICLE II
Tree
Preservation
§ 208-16. Purpose.
A.

The Board of Trustees finds that trees are necessary to protect the health, safety,
envirormient, ecosystems and general welfare of the inhabitants and properties in the
Village o f Croton-on-Hudson. The Village recognizes that preservation of the
envirorunent is the responsibility of the entire community. Trees provide oxygen,
impede soil erosion, aid water absorption, ameliorate against potential flooding, and
absorb CO2 and other pollutants and breathable particulate matter; provide shade,
screening, privacy, green space, aesthetic appeal and even historic value; absorb and
lessen impacts from winds and act as natural noise barriers; yield advantageous
microclimatic effects and provide other environmental benefits and generally enhance
the quality of life and values of properties within the Village. Indiscriminate removal
of trees causes deprivation of these benefits and disrupts the Village's ecological
systems.

B.

It is, therefore, the purpose of this article to regulate the quantity, quality, canopy and
distribution of trees and prevent the indiscriminate or urmecessary destruction of trees
within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in order to maximize the beneficial frinctions
of trees for the welfare of Village residents.

C.

It is fiuther the intent of the Village to provide the procedures prescribed herein to
preserve and protect the health, welfare and rural character of the community as
reflected in the woodlands of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in order to meet the
Village's responsibility under the New York State Enviromnental Quality Review
Act, Article 8 of the Envirormiental Conservation Law, to serve as a steward of air,
water, land and living resources and protect the environment for the use of this and
further generations.

§208-17. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
APPLICANT — Any individual or individuals, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization or other legal entity of any kind, including a municipal corporation,
governmental agency or subdivision thereof, filing an application p\u*suant to this chapter.
APPROVING AUTHORITY ~ The Village Engineer or their designee or the Planning
Board as applicable, as specified in § 208-19C hereof.
CLEAR CUTTING — The removal of four or more trees from a property without the
benefit of a current and valid tree removal permit.
DIAMETER A T BREAST HEIGHT (DBH) — The diameter of a tree measured at a point
4.5 feet above the ground, or at the highest measurable point of the remaining stump i f less

4904-5561-9638. v. 1

Villj^e of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
than 4.5 feet, on the uphill side of the tree.
EXCESSIVE PRUNING - Removing 1/4 (25%) or greater of the functioning leaf, stem or
root area of a tree.
FALL ZONE - The area around a tree based on the topography, site conditions, wind and
other factors that influence the natural direction where the entire tree, or pieces of a tree,
would land on a property.
GIRDLING - Any activity that injures the bark of a tree trunk, typically extending around
much of the tree's circumference.
INJURY - Any act which significantly weakens the tree, or its stems, trunk or roots, which
may also include, but is not limited to, the following listed acts: excessive pruning; girdling
or partial girdling of the tree trunk; excavation; compaction of the roots and/or raising or
lowering the existing grade adjacent to the tree; or poisoning in any manner (including, but
not limited to, the addition of paint, brine, oil, gasoline, toxins, petroleum products,
concrete mix, dirty water, etc., to the groimd around a tree); which list is not exclusive of
other acts which may have deleterious effects.
HAZARDOUS TREE - A tree identified as structurally defective which poses an imminent
risk to the health and safety of person, property, power lines or places where people gather,
or an increased likelihood that all, or part, of the tree will fail resulting in a risk of personal
injury, death or property damage in the fall zone.
LANDMARK TREE — A tree as defined on a list of trees which may be promulgated and
established by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which list is on
file in the office of the Village Manager.
LOT — Any parcel of land, not necessarily coincident with a lot or lots shown on a map
of record, which is occupied or which is to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, if any, or by a group of buildings having any land in common and the buildings
accessory thereto, i f any, together with the required open spaces appurtenant to such
building or group of buildings.
PRUNING - The removal or reduction of certain plant parts that are not required or are no
longer effective, in order to retain or improve the tree's health, natural habit, balance,
stature, value and contribution to the landscape design.
REGULATED BUFFER ZONE — Any area of vegetative screening as established by an
approved site plan, minor site plan, special permit or subdivision plat or any area of a
residentially zoned property as measured from each perimeter property line of the property
towards the interior of such property as follows:
Width of Regulated Buffer
Zoning District
Zone (feet)
RA-40
15
RA-25
RA-9
RA-5

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

10
5
3

village of Croton-on-Hudson. NY

TREES
RB (One-Family Residence)

3

RB (Two-Family Residence)
RC (One-Family Residence)
RC (Multiple Residence)

5
5
12

TOPPING - The indiscriminate cutting back of tree branches to stubs or lateral branches that
are not large enough to assume the terminal role, which can lead to branch dieback, decay,
and unstable sprout production from the cut ends, resulting in a potentially hazardous
situation once the sprouts become large and heavy.
TREE — Any woody perennial plant of a species which grows at maturity to an overall
height of ten (10) feet or more and has a main stem or trunk or multiple trunks at maturity
which, in combination normally attain a DBH of four (4) inches or greater.
TREE EXPERT - A certified arborist or other professional certified by a recognized program of
higher education or governmental agency as a tree expert.
TREE PRESERVATION FUND - A special purpose fund mto which shall be deposited any
penalties for violations or payments in lieu of replanting which shall be used at the discretion of
the Village Board of Trustees to promote the intent and purpose of this Chapter, including the
purchase and maintenance of trees, shrubs, and plants on public land. The Board of Trustees may
requestfromand consider recommendations initiated by the Conservation Advisory Council as
to the use of these funds.
§ 208-18. Prohibitions.
A. No person shall cut down or remove more than three (3) trees from any lot within the
preceding twelve (12) months withoutfirstobtaining a tree removal permit issued
pursuant to this chapter, which permit shall be in force and effect at the time of such tree
removal.
B. No person shall fasten or attach to any tree any sign, poster, bill, notice, advertisement of
any kind, birdhouse, clothesline or any other object, in a manner which will damage or
cause injury to a tree in any way.
C. No person shall perform clear cutting on any property within the Village, as defined in
this chapter.
D. No person shall top or excessively prune any tree.
E. No owner, lessee or occupant of any land or any part thereof shall install on any such, lot
or land any trees, shrubs or bushes which are classified as a prohibited invasive species in
6 NYCRR Part 575 Prohibited and Regulated Invasive Species
(http://www.dec.nv.gov/docs/Iands forests ndgisprohibitedplants2.pdf).

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
§ 208-19. Tree removal permit required; approving authority.
A.

General regulations. A tree removal permit will be required before removing:
(1) More than three (3) trees witiiin the preceding twelve (12) months.
(2) Any tree eight (8) inches or more in DBH on any parcel of land capable of being
subdivided under the zoning provisions applicable to the district in which the
parcel is situated or on any parcel of land without a residential structure or on any
property which would require site plan approval to be developed.
(3) Any tree four (4) inches or more in DBH growing on slopes of over 20%.
(4) Any tree that is four (4) inches or more in DBH within a wetland, watercourse or
wetland/watercourse buffer as defined in § 227-3.
(5) Any threatened or endangered species of tree, regardless of size, as defined by the
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.
(6) Landmark trees as herein defined, regardless of size.
(7) Any tree four (4) inches or more in DBH, the trunk of which is wholly or partially
located in a regulated buffer zone as herein defined.
(8) Clear cutting.

B.

Exceptions.
(1) No tree removal permit shall be required for work done by or on behalf of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
(2) Trees may be removed by the appropriate agency or authority as may be
necessary to maintain village, county, state or utility right-of-way, as a control
measure to fight forest or other fires, or under such other actual or ongoing
emergency condition when such tree removal is essential for the protection and
preservation of life or property.

C. Approving authority. The approving authority for all applications shall be the Village
Engineer or their designee, except that the Planning Board, as applicable, shall be the
approving authority for any application that is also the subject of a pending site plan,
minor site plan, subdivision approval, wetlands pennit or steep slopes permit in
accordance with the requirements of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Except as otherwise required in connection with the review of subdivision and site
plan applications and steep slope applications by the Planning Board, the application
for a tree removal permit shall not be subject to a public hearing, and notification of
adjoining or other property owners is not required.
D.

Standards for granting tree removal permits. In determining whether a tree removal
permit shall be issued, and, if issued, whether conditions should be included with the

4904-.5561-9638, v. 1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
permit, or denied, the approving authority shall consider tiie following:
(1)

It is a hazardous tree endangering the health, safety, welfare or property of the
general public, the property owner or an adjoining property owner.

(2)

The tree is preventing compliance with state, county or local standards for sight
lines, driveways or intersections.

(3)

The tree is preventing the property owner from undertaking otherwise approved
construction or alteration because the location of the designated tree substantially
interferes with a permitted use of the property and the construction or alteration
caimot be reasonably modified to accommodate the designated tree; written
explanation may be required describing how the designated tree interferes with
construction or alteration and why the construction or alteration cannot be
modified reasonably to accommodate the designated tree.

(4)

The condition and species of the tree with respect to overall health, disease, insect
attack, damage, interference and potential interference with utility services, and
proximity to existing trees, existing structures or proposed structures.

(5)

The tree is dead, or so substantially diseased that it constitutes a danger to people,
property or other trees.

(6)

The environmental impact of the tree removal, including, but not limited to, the
effect of the tree removal on erosion moisture retention, steep slopes, flow of
surface waters and drainage, CO2 and breathable particulate removal, ecosystems
supporting wildlife, or any other environmental factor, and the aesthetic
compositions of the land and surrounding area.

(7)

Whether the proposed tree removal will cause injury to, cut, damage, destroy or
remove more trees than is reasonably necessary to achieve the goals of the
applicant, or is inconsistent with the stated purposes of this chapter.

(8)

Considerations of land use and the general welfare and overall environment of
the area.

(9)

The species of the tree and whether any tree in question is a tree worthy of
preservation due to unusual characteristics such as age, history, size, rarity,
financial value or visual importance to the neighborhood.

(10) The removal of the tree is not inconsistent with good silvicultural, horticultural
or vegetation management and will not have an adverse visual or ecological
impact.
E. Planning Board action which is deemed approval of tree removal. Where tree removal
is proposed in connection with any site plan, minor site plan, subdivision plat, wetlands
permit or steep slope permit application submitted or to be submitted to the Planning Board,
as applicable, trees shall be removed from the affected property only in conjunction with an
approved final subdivision plat, final site plan, minor site plan, wetlands or steep slope
permit application. A tree removal permit is not required in these cases.

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Vill^e of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES

§ 208-20. Permit application.
A.

Any person proposing to conduct or cause to be conducted a regulated activity
specified in §208-19 hereof shall file an application for a permit with the approving
authority. The approval authority may require such information as it deems pertinent
to the individual circumstances. At minimirm, the application shall include the
following information:
(1)

The name and address of the applicant.

(2)

The address and Village Tax Map designation of the property on which the tree(s)
is/are located.

(3)

The total land area involved in the regulated activity.

(4)

The number and size in DBH of trees to be removed.

(5)

The purpose of the tree removal.

(6)

A survey of that section to be disturbed, showing location of any regulated buffer
zone as herein defined as well as all trees, indicating those trees to be removed and
those trees to be preserved, their species and their diameter. In the case of site plans,
including minor site plans, and subdivision plats, the tree survey shall be submitted
to the Planning Board or Village Board as applicable as a part of the site plan,
subdivision plat, wetlands or steep slopes applications. Trees shall have numbering
and tagging. The numbering and tagging shall be both in the field as well as
illustrated on the plan.

(7)

Methods of removal.

(8)

A stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) consistent with the requirements
of Chapter 196, Article I , Stormwater Management and Erosion and Sediment
Control, shall be required for any tree removal permit that qualifies as or authorizes a
land development activity as defined in Chapter 196, Article I . The SWPPP shall
meet the performance and design criteria and standards in Chapter 196, Article I .
The approved tree removal permit shall be consistent with the provisions of Chapter
196, Article L

B.

Where no subdivision, site plan, minor site plan, wetlands permit or steep slope permit
application is involved, the survey requirement may be eliminated by the approving
authority, and a plan drawn to scale showing the property lines and tree locations with
the tree diameters noted by the applicant may be substituted for Subsection A(6)
above.

C.

In cases where the Planning Board has received or will receive a site plan, minor site
plan, or subdivision application involving the disturbance of 100 or more acres and
where an acceptable erosion and sedimentation control plan has been or will be
prepared for such project and where an environmental impact statement has been or
will be prepared for such project a sampling technique may be used to estimate the

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
number, species and diameter of trees on the site and tiie number of trees proposed to
be removed. The specifics of the sampling technique shall be subject to the approval
of the Plarming Board. Notwithstanding the above, all trees 22 inches in diameter at
breast height and greater in any areas proposed to be disturbed shall be individually
identified and marked in accordance with this article.
D.

A U-ee removal permit application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees.

E.

The approval authority is not required to process any application unless and until all
relevant information and required fee has been supplied.

F.

At the time a tree removal permit application is submitted, and until a tree removal
permit is granted or denied, the trunk of all trees proposed for removal shall be
encircled with orange tape or other methods of tagging, as authorized by the Approval
Authority, at 4.5 feet above the ground. No person shall cut down, remove, perform
topping, excessively prune, cause injury to, damage, wound, break, kill, destroy or
commit any act which will lead to the eventual removal of any tree regulated by this
chapter, until the administrative process set forth herein is completed, unless specific
written approval is provided by the approval authority prior to work taking place.

§ 208-21. Conditions for granting permits.
The approving authority may, as a condition of granting a permit:
A.

Require the reasonable relocation of proposed foundation walls, driveways, grading,
surface and subsurface improvements or drainage systems to preserve specific trees.

B.

Regulate the days and hours of operations of regulated activity.

C.

Require that each tree to be cut or removed be marked at one point low enough on the
trunk to be visible after removal of the tree so as to permit subsequent inspection.
Notwithstanding the above, where the use of a sampling technique has been approved,
trees less than 22 inches in diameter at breast height need not be marked.

D.

Require such safeguards as appropriate to minimize the environmental impact of such
removal operations, including the potential for reduced erosion control and increased
soil moisture retention and flow of surface waters on the property.

E.

Require additional information and conditions i f the tree removal involves clear
cutting, including but not limited to:
(1) Detailed plans for the restoration of the site after tree removal, which shall be
certified by a recognized tree expert at the applicant's expense and drawn to a
scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, which includes to the satisfaction
of the approving authority the following:
(a)

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Description of the proposed vegetative cover o f the tree removal area,
including dominant species before and after the tree removal.

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
(b)

The location of the tree removal in relation to property lines, roads,
buildings, wetlands within 100 feet thereof, and any other regulated buffer
areas.

(2) The assistance of the CAC and, when necessary, a professional tree expert
selected by the approving authority who is especially qualified by reason of
training or experience in tree assessment, valuation, planting, conservation and
landscaping or landscape architecture or engineering, at the applicant's expense
(with 10 days prior notice to the applicant), which expense shall be reasonable
and customary for such services, in order to fully evaluate a tree removal pennit
application, and carry out any requirements or conditions o f a permit issued
under this chapter.
(3) Additional information as needed or deemed necessary by the approval authority
to evaluate the proposed tree removal in terms of the goals and standards of this
chapter.
F.
Require additional information and conditions, i f the tree removal involves clear
cutting; or removing, pruning or topping a tree in excess of twelve (12) inches DBH or 30
feet in height or a Landmark Tree; or any other tree if it is determined the fall zone
endangers the health, safety and welfare of any persons or property; including but not
limited to:
(1) The applicant's hiring of a Licensed Professional Tree Care Company to perform
the cutting, removal or pruning.
i.

Prior to permit issuance, the applicant shall provide the Licensed
Professional Care Company's name, address, telephone number, name
of job manager, certificate of liability insurance naming "Village of
Croton-on-Hudson" as additionally insured, and a copy of their New
York State Workers Compensation insurance.

ii.

A contractor may be used at the approving authority's discretion when
the tree removal is part of an approved permit issued by any Board or
Officer of the Village and the contractor is approved for tree removal
by the Village Engineer, provided the information outlined above is
submitted in full.

G.

Require that the tree trunk, limbs, stump and any roots remaining above grade
be removed to a height that takes into account the safety, aesthetics and
environmental value of allowing the stump to deteriorate naturally.

H.

Require that the disturbed area be backfilled, replanted and/or reseeded.

I.

Require that i n the case of a tree destroyed or removed illegally, another tree or trees
of comparable size, species and/or value be replanted at the expense of the property
owner, for each tree removed.

J.

Require the planting of a replacement tree or trees as herein defined.

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
K.

Impose such additional condhions as the approving authority deems necessary to
ensure compliance with the policies and provisions of this chapter.

§208-22. Replacement of Trees.
A. Any tree removal permit issued for three (3) or more trees under the conditions outiined in
§ 208-21 shall require the planting of replacement trees equal to at least 90% of the
environmental value of the trees proposed to be removed.
B. The environmental value of removed and replacement trees shall be determined by using
the iTree methodology on the U.S. Forest Service website, the National Tree Benefit
Calculator on the Arbor Day Foundation website, or other methodology selected by the
applicant and deemed acceptable by the approving authority.
C. Replacement trees should predominantly be native trees for this region as designated either
by the County of Westchester Department of Planning; or in the New York City Parks
Department "Native Species Planting Guide for New York City and Vicinity"; or in
CuUina, "Native trees. Shrubs and Vines."
D. All replacement trees shall be shown on a landscape plan acceptable to the approval
authority, which shall consider the total number of trees proposed for removal and other
relevant factors such as the topography of the area where trees are proposed for removal.
Replacement trees shall be a minimum 1.5-inch DBH for deciduous trees, and five (5) feet
in height for coniferous (evergreen) trees, unless the ViUage Engineer provides a waiver or
permits modifications to minimum size standards due to topography or other conditions of
the property. If and to the extent the approval authority determines that one or more trees
required to be planted as replacement trees cannot be planted due to shallow soil conditions
on the property, property size or like prohibitive conditions, alternate plantings of shrubs
on a site satisfactory to the Village Engineer to fulfill the legislative intent of this chapter
or a payment to the Village Tree Preservation Fund in lieu of the replacement trees may be
made in the sum or sums equivalent to the value of the trees which cannot be planted.
E. Planting of replacement trees is not required i f and to the extent the approval authority
determines that the removal of trees on a property is required as part of good forestry
practice to improve the health of remaining trees. Planting of replacement trees is not
required to replace invasive species of trees -^vhich are removed, and in no event shall any
invasive species of trees or plants be planted as replacements.
F. If an applicant has violated this chapter and is seeking a tree removal permit, the
replacement tree standard is 120% of the environmental value of the trees cut down,
removed, topped, excessively pruned, injured, damaged, wounded, broken, killed or
destroyed, or, depending on site characteristics, such other percentage deemed acceptable
to the Village Engineer, or the applicant may make a payment to the Village Tree
Preservation Fund of a sum or sums equivalent to 120% of the environmental value of the
trees destroyed. A combination of tree replacement and payment to the Village Tree
Preservation Fund may also satisfy the applicant's obligation.
G. The property owner shall warrant that all replacement plantings shall survive and be in a
healthy state on the third anniversary of the date on which the replacement plantings have

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
been provisionally accepted by the Village Engineer, or their designee, as complying with
the pennit conditions. The property owner shall be responsible to promptly replant, during
the next April to November growing season, any replacement plantings which did not
survive in a healthy state, and the permit conditions shall not be satisfied until such
warranty replacement plantings have survived in a healthy state for two years from when
the replacement plantings have been provisionally accepted by the Village Engineer, or
their designee. Should the permit holder fail to replace the trees voluntarily, written demand
for such replacement within a specified time period may be issued by the Village Engineer,
or their designee. Should the permit holder fail to replace the trees pursuant to demand, and
within the specified period of time, the Village Engineer, or their designee, shall have the
right to serve a summons and/or declare the maintenance bond, if any, in default, and apply
the escrow cash deposit and/or the proceeds of the bond to the Village Tree Fund.
§208-23. Bond.
A.

Before issuing a tree removal permit, the approving authority may require the
applicant to file with the Village a suitable bond or other security, payable to the
Village, in an amount fixed by the approving authority and in a form approved by said
approving authority and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
requirements of this article, the observance of all municipal laws, and compliance with
conditions imposed in connection with the granting of the permit, to indemnify the
Village for completing the work in accordance with this article.

B.

Any bond or other security filed in accordance with the foregoing, or portion thereof
specifically related to tree removal and replacement, shall not be released until the
Village Engineer has determined that, in all respects, the work proposed under the
approval has been satisfactorily completed in full compliance with all provisions of
this article. Failure to timely complete the work in accordance with the terms and
conditions of an approved plan and/or permit and to obtain a certificate of completion
as provided in § 208-27 and/or result in replacement trees in a healthy state on the
third aimiversary of their date of acceptance may result in the forfeiture of the bond
or other security and the Village shall be entitled to the full amount of said bond or other
security for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this article.

C.

All bonds and security forfeited will be deposited in the Tree Preservation Fund
pursuant to §208-24.

§208-24 Tree Preservation Fund.
A. The Treasurer of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby directed to establish a
special purpose fund which will be designated as the "Tree Preservation Fund." All
fees which are required pursuant to this Chapter to be paid into said fund shall be
delivered to the Village's Treasurer and deposited in the special purpose fund.
B. Purpose: The Tree Preservation Fund shall be a fund to receive in-lieu payments from
applicants to satisfy tree replacement requirements which cannot be met on site; tree
replacement requirements for violations of this Chapter; and forfeited securities. The
funds shall be used solely as directed by the Board of Trustees, by resolution, for

4904-5561-9538, v. 1

ViUe^e of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
planting and maintaining trees on public land in the Village in accordance with this
chapter.
C. The Village Board of Trustees shall establish any fee or basis of payments in lieu of
replanting and the same shall be included in the master fee schedule and be revised in
accordance with Chapter 122.
§ 208-25. Inspection; indemnification.
Any site for which an application for a tree removal permit has been submitted shall be
subject to inspection by the approving authority or its designated representatives upon
notice to the property owner and applicant at any reasonable time, including weekends and
holidays. The applicant, by making application for such permit, shall be deemed to have
given its consent to such inspection. The applicant shall indemnify and hold the Village
harmless against any damage or injury that may be caused by or arise out of any entry
onto the subject property in connection with the processing of the application, during
construction or performance of the work or within one year after the completion of the
work.
§208-26. Term.
No permit shall be valid for more than one year after approval of an application by the
approving authority unless otherwise specified by the approving authority. All permits shall
expire upon completion of the work specified therein. The validity of any work duly
completed pursuant to an existing permit shall not be affected by the expiration date.
Permits may be renewed by the approving authority upon application submitted at least 20
days before the expiration of the permit. Standards for issuance of renewals shall be the
same for the issuance of permits.
§ 208-27. Action upon completion of work.
A.

Within 30 days after completion of all tree removals authorized under a permit issued
in accordance with this chapter, the applicant shall notify the Village Engineer of such
completion.

B.

Within 30 days of such notification of completion of work, the Village Engineer shall
inspect or cause to be inspected the tree removal site for compliance with all
conditions of the permit.
(1) When all tree removal(s) authorized under a permit is deemed to be completed in
an acceptable fashion, the approving authority shall issue a temporary certificate
of completion, which may be conditioned upon the retention of the bond or surety
until the conditions of §208-22(G) are fulfilled to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer or their designee.
(2) When tree removals authorized under permit are deemed not acceptable, the
approving authority shall so notify the applicant. The notification of noncompliance
shall include a list of all conditions in violation of the terms of the permit and shall

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Village of CrOton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
specify a time limit for the correction of all items so listed.
§ 208-28. Suspension or revocation of permit.
A.

The approving authority after notice to the permit holder and an opportunity to be
heard may revoke or suspend a tree removal permit i f it finds that liie applicant has
not complied with any or all of the terms of such permit, has exceeded the authority
granted in the permit or has failed to undertake the project in the manner set forth
in the approved application.

B.

Issuance of a stop-work order by the Village Engineer shall be as provided in § 86-14
of the ViUage Code. A stop-work order may be appealed by filing a written notice of
appeal with the Planning Board not later than 30 days after service of the stop-work
order upon the applicant. A hearing shall be scheduled by the Planning Board within
20 days of receipt of request for a hearing. After the close of the hearing, the Planning
Board may confirm, modify or cancel the stop-work order.

C.

The approving authority shall set forth in writing its findings and reasons for revoking
or suspending a permit pursuant to this section and keep a copy in the permit
application file.
ARTICLE III
Penalties', Appeals; Dead or Diseased Trees

§ 208-29, Penalties for offenses.
A.

Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity who or which undertakes any regulated
activity without a tree removal permit required by this chapter or who violates any
condition attached to a tree removal permit, or who otherwise violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense punishable by a fine of not more
than $250. Each tree removed without a tree removal permit required by this chapter
or in violation of any condition attached to a tree removal pemiit or otherwise in
violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. For a second and each
subsequent violation within a one-year period, the violator shall be guilty of an offense
punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or a term of imprisonment of not more
than 15 days, or both. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a violation o f § 208-18 shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $5,000 or a term of imprisonment of not more
than 15 days, or both. Each violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
separate and distinct offense, and, in the case of a continuing offense, each day's
continuance thereof shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition, the
court may order or direct a violator to replace any or all trees removed illegally, with
a size and type selected by the Superintendent of the Department. The court shall
specify a reasonable time for the completion of such restoration, which shall be
effected under the supervision of the Village Engineer.

B.

In addition to the criminal penalties provided in § 208-29A any person, firm,
corporation, or other entity who or which undertakes any regulated activity without a

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
tree removal permit required by this chapter, or who violates any condition attached
to a tree removal pennit, or who otherwise violates any provision of this chapter shall
also be liable for a civil penalty as defined herein for each such violation. Each
consecutive day of the violation shall be considered a separate offense. Before
assessment of the civil penalty, the alleged violator shall be afforded a hearing or
opportunity to be heard before the Planning Board upon due notice and with right to
specification of the charges and representation by counsel. Such civil penally may be
recovered in an action brought by the Village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Such civil penalty may be released or compromised by the Village and any action
commenced to recover the same may be settled and discontinued by the Viiiage.
1. Trees up to and including eight inches DBH: up to $500.
2. Trees greater than eight inches DBH and up to and including 12 inches DBH:
up to $1,500.
3. Trees greater than 12 inches DBH: up to $3,000.
4. Street trees, trees within a wetland, watercourse or wetland/watercourse
buffer, or on an excessively steep slope: up to $4,000.
5. Landmark Trees: up to $5,000.
6. Trees within Conservation Easement Areas or Designated Buffer Areas, or
trees designated by the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation as a protected native plant: up to $7,500.
7. Fines per tree shall be doubled in the event that more than three (3) regulated
trees on a site are cut down, removed, topped, excessively pruned, injured,
damaged, wounded, broken, killed, destroyed, or for any act committed which
w i l l lead to the eventual removal of such tree without a permit, or, i f clear
cutting has been determined to have taken place, or, i f any tree is cut down,
removed, topped, excessively pruned, injured, damaged, wounded, broken,
killed, destroyed, or any act is committed which will lead to the eventual
removal of such tree, while an application is pending.
C.

The Planning Board also shall have the power, following a hearing, to direct a violator
to cease violation of this chapter and, under the Board's supervision, to replace
illegally removed trees and to restore satisfactorily the affected land to its condition
prior to the violation, insofar as that is possible, within a reasonable time. Exercising
of this power may be with or without the imposition of a fine or civil penalty under
Subsections A and B hereof

D.

Any civil penalty or order issued by the Planning Board shall be reviewable pursuant
to Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules.

E.

The Village also shall have the right to seek equitable relief to restrain any violation
or threatened violation of any provision of this chapter and to compel the replacement
of any or all trees removed illegally and the restoration of the land affected to its

4904-5561-9638, v.1

ViUage of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES

F.

condition prior to the violation of the provisions of this chapter.
The Village shall not issue a building permit, temporary certificate of occupancy or
certificate of occupancy for any property for which a violation of this chapter has been
served, or for which an administrative or judicial proceeding has been commenced
under this section, until said violation or proceeding is dismissed or resolved to the
satisfaction of the approving authority or court, as is appropriate.

G.

The Village Engineer and Code Enforcement Officer(s) are hereby authorized to issue
appearance tickets for violation of this chapter.

H.

Any monetary penalties collected under this section shall be deposited in the Tree
Fund.

§208-30. Appeals.
A.

A determination by the Planning Board to grant or deny a tree removal permit may be
reviewed by the applicant or any other aggrieved person by the commencement of an
action pursuant to the provisions of Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules.

B.

In the case of an application decided by the Village Engineer or the Village Engineer's
designee, the applicant or any other party aggrieved by such determination may seek
review by appealing to the Planning Board, in which case the Planning Board shall
become the approving authority for such application. Such review shall be requested
not later than 20 days after the filing of the subject decision by the approving authority.

§ 208-31. Removal of dead or diseased trees; dangerous trees or tree limbs.
A.

The Department shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees
on private property within the Village when such trees constitute a hazard to life and
property or harbor insects or diseases which constitute a potential threat to other trees
within the Village.
The Department shall notify, in writing, the owners of such trees. Removal shall be
done by said owners, at their own expense, within 30 days after the date of service of
notice.

B.

The Department shall have the right to cause the removal of any trees or tree limbs on
private property within the Village that it has determined are dangerous because they
are likely to constitute an imminent hazard to life and/or property. The Department
shall notify, in writing, the owners of such trees or limbs. Removal shall be done by
said owners, at their own expense, within three days after the date of service of notice.

C.

In the event of an owner's failure to comply with Subsection A or B hereunder, the
Department shall have the authority to remove such tree(s) or limb(s), as the case may
be, and charge the cost of removal to the owner. I f the charge is not paid within 30
days from the date of the bill, the Village Manager shall cause, on the next succeeding
April 15, any said unpaid removal charges to be added to the Village tax bills. Said
charges shall constitute a lien on the real property so affected.

4904-5561-9638, v.1

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
§ 208-32. Severability.
If any provision of this chapter shall be held for any reason to be invalid, such
determination shall not invalidate any other provision hereof."

Section 2, Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
thereof, which other portions shall continue in frill effect.

Section 3. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

4904-5561-9638, v. 1

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon- Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #175-2025
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory
No. 4 of 2025 to repeal and replace Chapter 208, Trees, of the Village Code to
strengthen provisions related to trees on public and private property, as well as enact
stiffer penalties for the illegal removal of, or injury to, trees; and
WHEREAS, on April 23, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes; and
WHEREAS, on June 25, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process
and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Short EAF "Determination of
Significance" attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 4 of 2025, which was opened and closed on June 25, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency fi-om
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village's Local Waterfi-ont
Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions; and
WHEREAS, on June 25, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with
those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 6: Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
Policy 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved,
and, where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats

Policy 9B: Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated
significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle
Arboretum, Gouveia Park, and on other public or private lands within the Village
where wildlife habitats are located, as well as the protection of such resources.
Policy 18: To safeguard the vital economic, social, and environmental interests of the
State and of its citizens, proposed major actions in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to the safeguards which the State has established
to protect.
Policy 19B: Increase public access to areas that offer physical and visual connection
to the Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Policy 23: Protect, enhance, and restore structures, districts, areas, or sites that are
of signiflcance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
Policy 25: Protect, restore, or enhance natural and man-made resources which are
not identifled as being of statewide signiflcance, but which contribute to the overall
scenic quality of the coastal area. (The following scenic areas were noted in the L WRP
as having local and regional signiflcance: (1) Distinctive and scenic views of Croton
Point, (2) Views of the Hudson River from South Riverside Avenue and Route 9
corridor, and (3) Vegetated slopes and undisturbed ridgelines particularly those in the
viewsheds in the Croton Gorge, River and Bay areas.)
Policy 25A: Establish and protect identifled public viewsheds of the Hudson River,
including but not limited to the public views of the Hudson River from the western
shoreline of the Village, and of the Croton River and Gorge. (The following scenic
areas were noted in the LWRP as having local and regional signiflcance: (1)
Distinctive and scenic views of Croton Point, (2) Views of the Hudson River from South
Riverside Avenue and Route 9 corridor, and (3) Vegetated slopes and undisturbed
ridgelines particularly those in the viewsheds in the Croton Gorge, River, and Bay
areas.
Policy 37A: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be exerted
in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new construction.
Policy 41: Land use or development in the coastal area will not cause national or State
air quality standards to be violated.
Policy 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
benefits derived from these areas.

wetlands and preserve

the

Policy 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing
damage from erosion or situation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against fiood and pollution.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above,
were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local
law to strengthen provisions related to trees on public and private property, as well as
enact stiffer penalties for the illegal removal of, or injury to, trees, complies with the
policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2025 to repeal and replace Chapter 208, Trees, of
the Village Code to strengthen provisions related to trees on public and private
property, as well as enact stiffer penalties for the illegal removal of, or injury to, trees,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 13 of2025.
Dated: July 9, 2025
*

J t

Jji Sfi

^

^

K1>

f ' f i !^

^

^l* J*

kja

^Im

JJt

^

3|*

?|*

JJt

^

«L.

mLm
i j t Zf^

<1*
J|t

•Jf

' J f mjm

mj^

^

>J*

JJt

*1*

*1M

VLI

^

^

^

^

'yr

tjw

*lf
Jfm ^fm

^If
fji.

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I , Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 09 of July, 2025.
IN WITNESS WFIEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the smd VillaaejJiis-lO* day of July, 2025.

(Seal)"'.

:


