---
title: "LL 1-2019: TO AMEND THE STREETS AND SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2019-01-14
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 1-2019: TO AMEND THE STREETS AND SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-01-14
---

Local Law 1-2019
Filed: 2019-01-14
TO AMEND THE STREETS AND SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON CHAPTER 197, BY ADDING NEW ARTICLES ADDRESSING DOUBLE POLES AND STREET OEPNING

A./

New York state Department of state
Division of Corporations, State Records and Unlfomri Gommercial Gode
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

I n r a l I a w Filinn

Albany, NY 122310001

l - w s ^ a i U.avv l l l l l i y

^

wvw.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law stiouid be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County OCity

pTown

[x]Village

8TATE RECORDS

(Selectone:)

-

of Croton-on-Hudson

I

~

JAN 1 h
LocalLawNo.

01

ggilinMe^TOiFSTAT^

of the year 2019

A local law """^ ^^^^^ ™ ^ STREETS AND SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE
(Insert Title)

'

'

i

CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-Ofjl-HUDSON, CHAPTER 197, BY ADDING
_
_
_
_
^
_
^
NEW ARTICLES ADDRESSING DOUBLE POLES AND STREET OPENING

Be it enacted by the Vi"age Board of Trustees

^^^^^

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

(Selectone:)

•Town

[x]Village

|
;

of Croton-on-Hudson

.

as follows:

See attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

.

•

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF GROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 01-2019
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE STREETS AND SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE
CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 197, BY ADDING
NEW ARTICLES ADDRESSING DOUBLE POLES AND STREET OPENING
Beit enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Secfion 197-14 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended in its entirety as follows:
|
§ 197-14.

Reserved.

Section Two. A new Article VIII entitled "Poles, wires and pipes" is hereby added to the Code
of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson. It shall read as follows:
Article VIII
Poles, Wires, and Pipes
§ 197-35. DeHnitions and word usage.

,

As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated herein:
DOUBLE POLE
!
: . \Any damaged utility pole or utility pole from which the plant has been removed, in whole
or in part, which is attached or in close proximity to a new utility pole.
PLANT
The cables, terminal, conductors and other fixtures necessary for transmitting electric,
telephone, cable television or other telecommunications service.
STREET
A public street, public easement, public right-of-way, public highway, public alley, public
way, sidewalk or public road.
§ 197-36. Permission from Village required.
No telegraph, telephone or electric power or light poles or wires shall be' erected qver, upon, or
across any street in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, except with the permission of
the Village Manager or his duly designated representative and upon such terms and conditions as
may be prescribed by him.

§ 197-37. Notice of removal.

;

•'' '' '. ' . . '
A.

Notification, time frame for removal.
'
; .
(1) When the Village determines that a utihty pole in a Village right-of-way is damaged and
poses a potential threat to the public safety, the Village shall notify any public utility with
a plant on the damaged pole that it must remove its plant from the damaged pole within
15 days of receiving such nofification from the Village.
(2) When a public utility installs a new pole that creates a double utility pole condifion, the
public utility shall, within 30 days of installation of the new pole, provide written notice
to all other public utilities maintaining a plant on the existing pole that a new pole has
been installed and that their plant on the existing pole must be relocated to the new pole
within 90 days of the date of the notice. A copy of such notice shall be simultaneously
provided to the Village.
j,
(3) Existing poles must be removed within 120 days after installafion of the new pole.
Removal shall be the joint and several obligation of the public utility installing the new
pole and any other public utility maintaining a plant on the existing pole. When the .
Village determines that a double pole is in a Village road right-of-way, the Village will
. notify the public utility which owns the double pole that the pole must be removed.
§ 197-38. Permit requirements.
All permits for the installation of a utility pole(s) shall include the following provision:
"The permittee shall have 120 days to remove a double pole following the installafion of
a new pole in its immediate vicinity. Failure to do so may result in penalties as provided
in§ 197-39."
§ 197-39. Penalties for offenses.

j

The penalty for any violation of the provisions I of this Article shall be as provided in §1-12
of chapter i . General Provisions. Each day that such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
,,
Section Three. A new Article IX entitled "Excavations" is hereby added to the Code of the
Village bf Croton-on-Hudson. It shall read as follows;
Article IX
Excavations
§197-40. Definitions and word usage.
A.

The following words, when used in this Article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except in those instances where the context clearly indicates otherwise:

APPLICANT
Any person who makes application for a permit.
EMERGENCY
'
Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which constitutes a clear
and immediate danger to persons or property.
PERMITTEE
Any person who has been issued a permit and has agreed to fulfill all terms of this
Article..
PERSON
Includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association, utility, corporation or
authority created pursuant to an act of the Board of Trustees. Whenever used in any
section prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term "person" as applied to associations
shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corpbrations, the officers
thereof
STREET
Includes a public street, public easement, public right-of-way, public highway, public
alley, public way, public road or public sidewalk accepted or maintained by the Village.
SUPERINTENDENT
The person in charge of the Department of Public Works in the Village, or his authorized
deputy, representative or inspector.
^
I

VILLAGE
'
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, County of Westchester, State ofNew York.
B.

In this Article, the singular shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include the
feminine and the neuter.

§ 197-41. Permit required.

j

It shall be unlawful for any person to make any tunnel, opening or excavation of any kind
in or under the surface of any street without first securing a permit from the Village for
each separate undertaking; provided, however, that any person maintaining pipes, lines or
other underground facilities in or under the surface of any street may proceed with an
opening without a permit when emergency circumstances demand the work to be dorie
immediately, provided that the permit could^not reasonably and practically have been
obtained;beforehand. The person shall thereafter apply for a permit no later than the third
business day after the work was performed on which the Village is open for business, and
said permit sha.ll.be retroactive to the date when the work was begun.
§197-42. Street openings limited.

No person to whom a permit has been granted shall perform any of the work authorized
by such permit in any amount or quantity greater than that specified in the permit, except
upon the prior written approval of the Village Engineer. Any deposit and bond posted in
connection with the original permit shall be deenied to cover any such additional work as
may be approved pursuant to this section. If the additional work is not approved by the
Village Engineer the permittee shall apply for a new permit.
§197-43. Commencement of work.
Written notification to the Village Engineer and Superintendent shall be made no less
than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the work covered by the permit and as soon
as possible but no later than 72 hours after performing any work in a street associated
with erhergency conditions.
i
I

§197-44. Permits nontransferable.
Permits are not transferable from one person to another, and the work shall not be made
in any place other than the locations specifically designated in the permit.

"•• •

§197-45. Expiration of permits.

I

*

• . '.

Every permit shall expire at the end of the period of time which shall be set out in the
permit. If the permittee shall be unable to complete the work within the specified time, he
shall, prior to the expiration of the permit, present in writing to the Village Engineer a
request for an extension of time, setting forth therein the reasons for the requested
extension. If in the opinion of the Village Engineer such an extension is necessary and
not contrary to the public interest, the pennittee may be granted additional time for the
completion of the work.
1
§197-46. Municipal utility cuts.
All street openings required by utilities owned or operated by the Village shall be made
and restored under the direction and supervision of the Superintendent. The permit, fee,
deposit, insurance and bond requirements of this Article shall not be applicable to any
openings made by such municipality owned,or operated utilities.
§197-47. State and county highways and private streets.
The provisions of this Article shall not be applicable in those instances where the
highway is maintained by the State ofNew York or by the County of Westchester, or any
street not accepted or maintained by the Village.
§197-48. Rights of Village.

!

Every permit shall be granted subject to the right of the Village or of any other person
entitled thereto to use the street for any purpose for which such street may lawfully be
used, not inconsistent with the permit.
§197-49. Revocation of permits.
A. Any permit may be revoked by the Village Engineer, after notice to the permittee, for:
(1)
(2)
(3)

Violation of any condition of the permit or of any provision of this Article.
Violation of any provision of any other applicable ordinance or law
relating to the work.
Existence of any condition or the doing of any act constituting or creating
a nuisance or endangering the lives or property of others. A permittee rriay
be granted a period of three days from the date of the notice to correct the
violation and to proceed with the diligent prosecution of the work
authorized by the permit before said permit is revoked.

B. Written notice ofany such violation or condition shall be served upon the permittee
or his agent engaged in the work. The notice shall contain a brief statement of the
grounds relied upon for revoking the pennit. Notice niay be given either by personal
delivery thereof to the person to be notified or by certified or registered United States
mail or any other method of delivery providing proof of delivery addressed to the
person to be notified.
. ]
C. When any permit has been revoked and the work authorized by the permit has not
been completed, the Superintendent shall do such work or hire others to do such work
as may be necessary to restore the street or part thereof to as good a condition as
before the opening was made. All expenses incurred by the Village shall be recovered
from the deposit or bond the permittee has made or files with the Village.
§197-50. Duties and responsibilities of applicants.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of any I applicant to:
A.

Make a written application for such permit with the Village Engineer on forms
providing all information necessary for the administration and enforcement of this
Article. No work shall commence until the Village Engineer has approved the
application and plan and issued a permit and until the permittee has paid and
provided all fees, deposits, certificates and bonds required by this Article.

B.

Furnish in duplicate a plan showing the work to be performed under said permit.
If approved by the Village Engineer, one copy of such plan shall be retumed to
the applicant at the time the permit is granted.

:

^
C.

If requested by the Village Engineer, the applicant must supply a detailed
maintenance and protection of traffic (MPT) plan, as per New York State

Department of Transportation standards^ showing the area of proposed work, all
signage to be installed, detour routes, location of traffic control personnel,
proposed lane closures, or any other requirement specified by the Village
Engineer.
D.

.

If required by the Village Manager the use of Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police
Department personnel may be required for additional traffic control. The expense
for such personnel usage shall be paid by the applicant. The cost for the use of
Croton-on-Hudson Police Department personnel shall be established by the
Village Manager and the application shall include this cost in the deposit.

E.

Pay a permit fee to be determined by the Vilkge Board by resolution and set in
the fee schedule; provided, however, that if approved by the Village Manager
public utilities or authorities shall be billed for such fees as they shall accrue.

F.

Make a deposit to cover the cost of restoring the street damaged by such work.
The deposit shall also cover the Village's cost to hire a third-party inspection
service/inspector to oversee the opening and restoration of any work performed in
the street if in the Village's sole opinion it deems it necessary. All fees associated
with this service shall be paid by the applicant prior to the issuance of any permit.
The amount of deposit shall be computed by the Village Engineer and in the case
of any police personnel costs by the Village Manager as provided by § 197-54 of
this Article.

G.

Furnish a perforrhance bond as required by § 197-55 of this Article.

H. .

Furnish a certificate of insurance as required by § 197-56 of this Article.

I.

Submit, when required by the Village Engineer, a list of addresses of all
properties within a specified buffer distance of the work area where the work
authorized by the permit is to be performed.

J.

Submit, when required by the Village Engineer, documentation that the permittee
is capable of providing all materials, labor and equipment which are needed to
complete such work as authorized by the permit.

K.

Obtain any other required Village permits and include a copy with the permit
application.

§197-51. Duties and responsibilities of permittees.
i •
'
.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of anyj person receiving a permit to:
A. Comply with all provisions of this Article and condifions of the permit.

B. The permittee as a minimum shall notify the owners and occupants of all properties
abutting or adjoining the work zone of the type and schedule of the work to be
performed 48 hours prior to the commencement of any work except in instances
where the work is of an emergency nature that,will not permit such advance notice. In
emergencies where 48 hours' advance notice is impossible, property owners will be
given as much notice as possible. The Village Engineer may require the permittee to
notify additional, property owners in a larger buffer zone around the work zone and
that the notification be in writing and a copy of the written notice be provided to the
Village to review before delivering to the property owners.
C. Keep the original copy of the permit and an approved copy of the plan at all times
while "such work is in progress at the location for which said permit was granted, and
show such permit and plan upon demandiby the Village authorities.
D. Comply with New York State Code Rule! 753.
§197-52. Opening and excavation restrictions and requirements.
A. No opening or excavation in any street shall extend beyond the center line of the street
before being backfilled and the surface of the street temporarily restored unless the use of
steel road plates have been approved by the Village Engineer or the Superintendent.
B. No excavation more than 150 feet, measured longitudinally, shall be opened in any street
at any one time without permission in writing from the Village Engineer or
Superintendent, and only in instances where a sufficient hardship can be shown.
C. All utility facilities shall be exposed sufficiently ahead of trench excavation work to
avoid damage to those facilities and to permit their relocation, if necessary.
D. Pipes, drains, culverts, or other above or below ground utility facilities encountered.shall
be protected by the permittee.
E. Monuments of concrete, iron or other lasting material set for the purpose of locating or
preserving the lines of any street or property, or a precise survey reference point or a
permanent survey bench mark with the Village, shall not be removed or disturbed or
caused to be removed or disturbed unless permission to do so is first obtained, in writing,
from the Village Engineer. Permission shall|be granted only upon condition^that the
permittee shall pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of the monument.
F: Work performed by the pennittee shall not interfere with the established drainage system
of any street, provisions shall be made by the permittee tp provide proper drainage to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer or Superintendent.
G. When any earth, gravel or other excavated rnaterial is caused to roll, drop, flow or wash
upon any street, the permittee shall cause the same to be removed from the street no later
than the end of the same work day. In the event the earth, gravel or other excavated

material so deposited is not removed, the Village Engineer or Superintendent shall cause
such removal and the cost incurred shall be paid by the permittee or deducted from his
deposit. Such costs shall be determined by the Village.
H. The Village Engineer or Superintendent may require that the excavation be backfilled
with controlled low strength material, having a minimum strength of between 50 and 200
psi at 28 days.
I.

The Village Engineer or Superintendent may require that a temporary pavement repair of
two inches of asphalt concrete be installed uritil the permanent pavement repair is made.
The permittee shall maintain any temporary pavement repair.

J. If requested by the Village Engineer or Superintendent the permittee shall provide a
schedule bf when the permanent pavement restoration will be completed.
K. The Village Engineer or Superintendent may establish a date by which the permanent
pavement work needs to be completed and shall give the permittee 30 days' nofice of the
datel If the permittee fails to complete the permanent pavement restoration by the
established date the Village may complete permanent pavement restoration. All expenses
incurred by the Village shall be recovered from the deposit and/or bond provided by the
permittee under this Article.
L. Safety of work and traffic control zones.
1.

Every pennittee shall have a foreman at the work site to oversee the work
including the safety of the work and traffic control zones.

2. •

Every permittee shall place in the work and traffic control zones such signs,
channelizing devices, lighting devices arid pavement markings in accordance with
guidelines in the latest edition of the Cornell Local Roads Program Work Zone
Safety Handbook or approved Maintenance and Protection of Traffic Plan.
Additional safety requirements may be prescribed by the Village Engineer or
Superintendent based on conditions in the work and traffic control zones.

3.

I f required by the Village Engineer or Superintendent the permittee shall provide
a trainedflagger(s)to control traffic in the work and traffic control zones.
Flagging operations shall be in accordance with guidelines in the latest edition of
the Comell Local Roads Program Work Zone Safety Handbook and Flaggers
Handbook or approved Maintenance' and Protection of Traffic Plan. Additional
flaggers may be required by the Village Engineer or Superintendent based on
(conditions in the work and traffic control zones.

•

4.

-••

' • •I

Whenever any permittee fails to provide or maintain any safety devices required
by the permit or Village Engineer or Superintendent, such devices may be
installed and/or maintained by the Village. The amount of the cost incuned shall

be paid by the permittee or deducted from his deposit. Such costs shall be
determined by the Village.
5.

No person shall willfully move, remove, injure, destroy or extinguish any signs,
channelizing devices, lighting devices and pavement marking erected, placed or
. posted in accordance with the provisions of this Article.

M. Access tp private driveways must be provided at all times when work is not actually in
progress. Temporary access to driveways must be provided as needed by the property
, owners and their tenants at all times. Proper access must be provided at all times to fire
hydrants.
N. Excavatedriiaterialsshall be laid compactly along the side of the trench and kept trimmed
up so as to cause as little inconvenience as possible to public travel. In order to expedite
the flow of traffic or to abate a dirt or dust nuisance, the Village Engineer or
Supierintendent may require the permittee to place the excavated material directly into a
vehicle or container. If the excavated area causes inconveniences to pedestrians,
temporary walks and, if required, fencing shall be installed by the permittee as directed
- by the Village Engineer or Superintendent.
O. Work authorized by a permh shall be performed between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00
p.m., Monday thi-ough Saturday and between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on
Sunday, unless the permittee obtains written cPnsent from the Village Engineer or
Superintendent to do the work at an earlier or later hour. Such permission shall be granted
only in case of an emergency or special circumstances.
P. In granting any pennit, the Village Engineer may attach such other conditions thereto as
may be reasonably necessary to prevent damage to public or private property or to
prevent the operation from being conducted jin a manner hazardous to life or property or
in a manner likely to create a nuisance or unacceptably disrupt traffic. Such conditions
may include, but shall not be limited to:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4) '
(5)
(6)

(7)

Limitations on the period of the year in which the work may be performed;
Limitations on the time of day in which the work may be performed;
Restrictions as to the size and type of equipment;
Designation of routes upon which materials may be transported;
The place and manner of disposal of excavated materials;
Requirements as to dust control, the cleaning of streets, the prevention of noise
and other results offensive or injurious to the neighborhood, the general public or
any portion thereof; and
Regulafions as to the use of streets in the course of the work.

§197-53. Backfilling and pavement restoration, j

A. All pavement cuts, openings and excavationsj shall be properly made, backfilled and
tempprarily surfaced by the permittee according to the permit conditions and Village
specifications.
B. The Village Engineer or Superintendent must be notified by the permittee during the
forty-eight-hoiu- period preceding beginning of backfilling, of the date and approximate
time at which backfilling will be begun.
C. No backfilling shall be begun unless or until jeither the Village Engineer, the
Superintendent or a designated Village inspector is present.
D. After excavation is commenced, the work of making and backfilling the same shall be
• prosecuted and completed with due diligence.
E. The work of the permanent restoration, including both paving surface, paving base, and
subbase shall be performed by the permittee according to permit conditions and Village
specifications.
F. Where trenches are made parallel to the street, or where a number of cross trenches are
laid in close proximity to one another or are numerous, or where the equipment used may
cause such additional damage to the pavement, the Village Manager may require a
negotiated payment from the permittee for the final pavemerit restoration of such street if,
in his opinion, the damage to the pavement will be so excessive it will require the
complete resurfacing of the street area involved. Such negotiations shall be carried on and
payment agreed upon prior to issuance of a permit.
G. Upon completion of all work accomplished under the provisions of the permit, the
permittee shall notify the Village Engineer in writing. A certificate of final inspection
shall be issued by the Village Engineer to each permittee no sooner than one year after
the permanent restoration of the excavation has been made, provided the work authorized
by the permit has been performed according to Village specifications. Prior to the
issuance of a certificate, the Village Engineer or Superintendent shall make a fmal
inspection ofthe restoration to determine whether Village specifications have been
adhered to.
H. If any settlement in a restored area occurs within a period of one year from the date of
completion of the pernianent restoration, the permittee is required to correct the
settlement and repair the pavement within 30 days of notification by the Village. If the
contractor does not complete the work withiri the time frame specified, the Village has
the right to make the repair. Any expense incuned by the Village in conecting such
settlement shall be paid by the permittee or recovered from his bond, unless the permittee
submits proof satisfactory to the Village Engineer that the settlement was not due to
defective backfilling. ..
I.

In no case shall any opening rriade by a permittee be considered in the charge or care of
the village or any of its officers or employees, and no officer or employee is authorized in

any way to take or assume any jurisdiction over any such opening, except in the exercise
of police power, when it is necessary to protect life and property.
J. If any restoration completed by a permittee is not. satisfactory to the Village Engineer or
Superintendent, and the permittee shall fail to correct the work to their satisfaction, they
may cause such work to be redone to his satisfaction including hiring a contractor to
perform the work. All expenses incuned by the Village shall be recovered from the
deposit and/or bond provided by the permittee under this Article.
K. If the Village Engineer or Superintendent finds that pavement surfaces outside the
"Minimum Pavement Restoration Limits" were damaged by the permittee, the Village
Engineer or Superintendent may expand the pavernent restoration limits to iriclude these
damaged pavement surfaces or that these damage pavement surfaces are otherwise
repaired by the permittee to their satisfaction.
L. All permanent pavement restoration shall be performed to the limits shown on the
drawing of "Minimum Pavement Restoration Limits" which shall be approved by the
Village Board ofTrustees by resolution and pn file in the Village Clerk's office.
M. The permittee is responsible to ensure that tlie pavement restoration does not cause an
increase in drainage flow from the restored payement onto driveways or other surfaces
adjacent to the restored pavement compared to preexisting conditions. If the pavement
restoratipn results in an increase in drainage flow the permittee shall correct the drainage
condition to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer or Superintendent within 30 days. If
the drainage condition is not corrected in 30 days the Village Engineer or Superintendent,
may cause such work to be done to his satisfaction including hiring a contractor to
perform the work. All expenses incuned by the Village shall be recovered from the
deposit and/or bond provided by the pennittee under this Article.
§197-54. Deposits.
A. Computation of deposits. The Village Engineer, upon receipt of a properly completed
application, shall determine the amount of the deposit to be made by the permittee;
provided, however, that the deposit shall not be less than an amount to be determined by
the Village Board by resolution and set in the "Minimum Pavement Restoration Limits"
drawing. The deposit shall be paid prior to the permit being issued, and the deposit shall
be used to reimburse the Village for the cost of any work and materials furnished by it in
connection with the work authorized by the permit and for any other purpose set forth in
this Article including the cost of any police personnel services, established by the Village
Manager.
B. Form of deposit. The deposit may be either in the form of a check, or in lawfiil money of
the United States.
'
C. Insufficient deposit. If any deposit is less than sufficient to pay all costs, the permittee
shall, upon demand, pay to the Village an amPunt equal to the deficiency. If the permittee

11

refuses or fails to pay such deficiency, the Village may institute an action to recover the
same in any court of competent jurisdiction. Until such deficiency is paid in full, no
additional permits shall be issued to such permittee.
D. Yearly deposit. Whenever any publie utility or authority shall anticipate more than one
street opening or excavation per calendar year, such utility or authority may post one
deposit in an amount and form as provided above for the calendar year or part thereof to
cover the cost of any and all work.
!
E. Deposit and cost schedules. The amount of deposit for street openings shall be
established by the Village Engineer based on the type and nature of the proposed work
and shall not be less than the minimum amount set forth in the fee schedule.
F. Refund of deposit. Upon notification by the permittee that all work authorized by the
permit has been completed, and after restoration of the opening and final inspection, the
Village Engineer shall refiind to the permittee his deposit less all costs incuned by the
Village in connection with said permit and any other expenses required by this Article,
for which final settlement has not been made. In no event shall the permit fee be refunded
once work has been undertaken.
§197-55. Bond requirements.
i

A. Bond requirements. Each applicant prior to the issuance of a permit shall provide the
Village with an acceptable bond to guarantee faithful performance of the work authorized
by a permit granted pursuant to this Article. The aniount of the bond shall be 100% of the
estiniated cost of restoring thie street opening as determined by the Village Engineer. The
term ofthe bond shall begin upon the date of posting thereof and shall terminate upon the
receipt by the permittee of a certificate oif final inspection from the Village Engineer. If
the permittee anticipates requesting more than one permit per year as required by this
. Article, he may furnish one continuing corporate surety bond to guarantee faithful
performance in such amount as the Village Engineer deems necessary. The amount of
such bond shall be in relation to the cost of restoring pavement ciits to be made by the
permittee throughout the year.
B. Default in performance. Whenever the Village Engineer shall find that a default has
occurred in the performance of any term or condition of the permit, written notice thereof
shall be given to the perriiittee and if the bond is a surety bond to the surety on the bond.
Such notice shall state the work to be done, the estimated cost thereof and the period of
time deemed by the Village Engineer to be reasonably necessary for the cbmpletion of
such work.

• !

C. Completion of work. After receipt of such notice the.permittee and/or surety must, within
the time therein specified, either cause the required work to be performed or, failing
therein, indemnify the Village for the cost of doing the work as set forth in the notice.
§197-56. Insurance requirements.

i

12

Each applicant, prior to the issuance of a permit, shall provide the Village with acceptable
documentation of insurance coverage in accordance with the Village's insurance
requirements for permits on file with the Village Clerk.
' ,
§197-57. Openings in new streets.
Restriction upon opening new streets. No permit shall be issued by the Village Engineer
which would allow an excavation or opening in a paved and improved street surface less
than three years old, unless the applicant can} clearly demonstrate that public health or
safety require that the proposed work be permitted or unless an emergency condition
exists.
§197-58. Map requirements.
A. Every person ownirig, using, controlling or having an interest in pipes, conduits, ducts or
other structures under the surface of any street used for the purpose of supplying or
conveying gas, electricity, communication impulses or data, to or from the Village or to
or from its inhabitants,, or for any other purposes, shall file with the Village Engineer
such maps or sets of maps, drawn to a scale suitable for the purposes required, showing
the location, size and dimensions of all such installation, whenever, in the opinion of the
Village Engineer, such maps are necessary for the safe and proper undertaking of street
opening work.
B. ' Each map herein required shall be accompanied by an affidavit, endorsed thereon to the
effect that the same reasonably exhibits the details required to be shown by this section as
ofthe time of filing to the best of the permittee's knowledge and information.
§197-59. Abandoned facilities.
A. Whenever any pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel or other structure located under the surface of
any street, or the use thereof, is abandoned, the person bwning, controlling or having an
interest therein shall, within 30 days after siich abandonirient, file with the Village
Engineer a statement, in writing, giving in detail the location of the structure so
abandoned.
.
B. Each map or set of maps filed pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall show in
detail the location of all such structures abandoned subsequent to the filing of the last
preceding map or set of maps.
C. When the Village plans to pave or improve streets in which there are abandoned
facilities, the owner of such facilities shall be notified to remove them if in the opinion of
the Board ofTrustees their removal is in the best interest of the Village. If the owner shall
refuse to rempve such facilities, the Village shall remove the abandoned facilities and the
owner shall reimburse the Village for such removal.
§197-60. Penalties for offenses.

13

The penalty for any violation of the provisions of this Article shall be as provided in §112 of Chapter 1, General Provisions. Each day that such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
• ,
Section Four. Severability

j

If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reasori,
declared invalid, in;whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
'•
'
i
'
Section Five., Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

14

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is'not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
n
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated.as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board OfTrustees "
.
on January 7
2019
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20l^ ; of
^as duly passed by the
. in accordance with the applicable

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
!
I hei-eby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
•
•.
•.
was duly passed by the
on
'.
: 20
, and was (approved)(not.approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
I
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
on
201 I I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
^
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the,

of 20

•" '
,
•

on
.

'

'

of

.

was duly passed by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

'

'
(Elective Chief Executive Officer')

on

'

20

.

Such local law was subrriitted to the people by reason of a (mar!datory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the,(County)(City)(Town)(\/illage) of

!_

• •
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the:
'
(Elective (Chief Executive Officer')

of 20
•

•

;

20

of

was duly passed by the

,.and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected oh a county-w/ide basis or, if there'
. be, none* the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DpS-0?39-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

•

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
:
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and havirig received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
; 20
, became operative.
• . 1 ^
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify thatthe local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
'
•.
of 20
of
the County of
^.State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November _ ;
— 20
1_, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office^nd-that-ttie same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopjedjn the manne^ indicated in
paragraph,
above.
Clerk of t,he'coufity legislative .body, City, Town or yiilage Clerk oi>office.r.-designated by locattegislative body pf3-dLi^n^
h>' ->'^^

(Seal)

,

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

.

,

.V

^ /

Page 4 of 4

^-T
'

On motion of TRUSTEE Gallelli, seconded by TRUSTEE Horowitz, the
following resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board ofTrustees of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York:
Resolution #1-2019
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 197 ofthe Viliage
Code, Strieets and Sidewalks, to address the street opening process and to
prohibit double pole conditions; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2018 has been drafted to
amend Chapter 197 of the Village Code, Streets and Sidewalks; and
• .

••

•

''

I.-

WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held aiid closed on January 7, 2019;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of
Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2018 amending
Chapter 197 of the Village Code, Streets and Sidewalks, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law l of 2019. :
Dated: Januaiy 7, 2019
d[c

^

s|€ SjC 5|c iJC 5(C 5[c

State ofNew York
•• • ••

I

sjc S|€

sjc

sjc p|c

5|C

)
• • -

'^
ss:
County of Westchester
)
j
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County
of Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed
resolution is a copy of an original on file iii rny office and has been duly
adopted at a regular meeting of the Board ofTrustees of said Village held on
January 7, 2019.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the
corporate seal of the said Village this 08th day of January 2019.

^dage C i ^
(Seal),.,. ,2


