---
title: "LL 2-2005: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2005-10-17
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 2-2005: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2005-10-17
---

Local Law 2-2005
Filed: 2005-10-17


NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

L o c a l L a w Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231
STATE OF NEW
DEPARTMENT o f STM€

Pll F D
Village of Croton-on-Hudson

l

I L-

OCT 1 7 2005
Local Law No. 2 ofthe year 2005

.,

, . , 0

& STATE RECORDS
A local law to amend Chapter 197, Streets and Sidewalks, Article VII, Sidewalk Improvement
Program

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees ofthe
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. § 197-33. Program administration Letter B is amended to read as follows:
The Village will pay 50% of the actual contract cost for the removal and
replacement of sidewalks to residents who apply during the period of June 1, 2000,
to May 31, 2005, ofthe sidewalk replacement program and 40% of the actual
contract cost to residents who apply during the period of June 1, 2005, to May 31,
2007, including materials and labor for the repairs and reconstmction. The
prevailing rate established by the village will be used in determining the total cost
of the improvements.
Section 2. This Local Law shall be effective upon filing in the office ofthe Secretary of State.

' (Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1, (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 205.5—
of the ((?^S^miy^P^K)(Village) of -Cr.0.tQa.Qa.Hu.c!-mn
was duly passed by the
BO-3r.cL.Q.f..Tj2US-te.es
on -1074
20Q5.., in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage afler disapproval
by the Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of the (County)(City)(Tov/n)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20 . . . , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

-

and was deemed duly adopted on

-

20—,

(Eieciive ChiefExecutive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3, (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
—
was duly passed by the
—
on
20— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislalive Body)

disapproval) by the

on

20— . Such local law was submitted

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quaUfied electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
2U— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andfinaladoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
—- 20-— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name af Legislalive Body)

disapproval) by the

-

-

on

-

— 20

Such local law was subject to

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as o f accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

-

20—- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or Includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor ofa city or village, or
the supervisor ofa town where such officer ts vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City lottal law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors ofsuch city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No,
of 20
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
20—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript^jf^^efrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph
onO—, above.
^ ^ /
Clerk of th^CouQty le^slalive bod^Tcity, Town or Village Clerk
oro^^ae^igoated^*^

TixTj^/J
^*^'^^Y

iJi//A£:^
r/f^tTt.

10/7/05
(Seal)

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATEOFNEWYORK^ESyCHESTER
COUNTYOF

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature

VILLAGE ATTORNEY
Title

«

oi

CROTON ON HUDSOI^

Village
Date:

10/10/05

(3)

—

/'/ertH^
<^(t;^


