---
title: "LL 2-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2023-03-28
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 2-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-03-28
---

Local Law 2-2023
Filed: 2023-03-28
TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ADD NEW ARTICLE IX -- VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS AND AMBULANCE WORKERS EXEMPTION

New York State Department of State
Division ofCorporatlons, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underiining to indicate new matter.
FILED
•County • C i t y • T o w n
^Village
STATS P - C O R D S
(S&lectone.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

^ ^ 2023
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

LocalLawNo.

of the year 2023

02

A local law *° ^'^^'^^ Chapter 204, Taxation ofthe Code of the Viilage of Croton-on-Hudson
(Insert Title)

to add new article IX ~ Volunteer Firefighters and Ambulance Workers Exemption

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 02-2023
A L O C A L LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 204 TAXATION OF THE
CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ADD
NEW A R T I C L E IX VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS AND AMBULANCE
WORKERS EXEMPTION
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. A new Article IX entitled Volunteer Firefighters and Ambulance Workers
Exemption of Chapter 204 Taxation of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
enacted pursuant to Real Property Tax Law Section 466-a, to read as follows:
Article IX Volunteer Firefighters and Ambulance Workers Exemption
§204-41 Exemption granted.
An exemption of 10% of assessed value of property owned by an enrolled member as set forth
below, or such enrolled member and their spouse, is hereby granted from taxation with respect to
the real property taxes of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as long as eligibility requirements are
met.
§204-42 Eligibility requirements.
Such exemption shall be granted to an em-olled member of an incorporated volunteer fire
company, fire department, or incorporated voluntary ambulance service provided that:
A.
The property is owned by the volunteer firefighter or volunteer ambulance worker;
B.
The property is the primary residence of the volunteer firefighter or volunteer ambulance
worker;
C.
The property is used exclusively for residential purposes;
D.
The volunteer firefighter or volunteer ambulance worker resides in the Village of Crotonon-Hudson and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is served by such incorporated volunteer
fire company or fire department or incorporated voluntary ambulance service;
E.
The volunteer firefighter or volunteer ambulance worker is certified by the authority
havingjurisdiction as an enrolled member ofsuch an incorporated volunteer fire company,
fire department, or incorporated voluntary ambulance service; and
F.
The volunteer firefighter or volunteer ambulance worker meets the minimum service
requirement established by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which is hereby established
as two years.
§204-43 Application for exemption.
A volunteer firefighter or volunteer ambulance worker must annually, on or before the
applicable taxable status date, file an application for such property tax exemption with the
assessor responsible for preparing the assessment roll for the ViUage of Croton-on-Hudson, on
a form as prescribed by the New York State Commissioner of Taxation and Finance. The Village
of Croton-on-Hudson must maintain written guidelines, available upon request, as to

the

requirements

of

an enrolled

volunteer

member

relating

to

this

exemption.

§204-44 Certification.
The Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department and Croton Emergency Medical Services, Inc. must
armually file with the assessor, prior to the applicable taxable status date, a list of the active
volunteer members who are certified to meet the minimum service requirement. Such list must
provide, as of the applicable taxable status date, the number of years of service served by each
such enrolled member and such enrolled member's address of residence. No diminution of benefits.
An applicant who is receiving any benefit pursuant to Article 4 of the Real Property Tax Law as
ofthe effective date of this article shall not have any of those benefits diminished because of this
article.
§204-45 Grant of lifetime exemption.
Any eligible enrolled member who accrues more than 20 years of active volunteer service (as
certified by the authority having jurisdiction) shall be granted the 10% exemption as authorized
by this article for the remainder of his or her life as long as his or her primary residence is
located within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
§204-46 Un-remarried spouse of enrolled member killed in the line of duty.
The un-remarried surviving spouse of a deceased enrolled member killed in the line of duty, as
certified by the authority havingjurisdiction, is qualified to continue to receive an exemption, as
long as the deceased volunteer had been an enrolled member for at least five years and had
been receiving the exemption at the time of his or her death.
§204-47 Un-remarried spouse of deceased enrolled member.
The un-remarried surviving spouse of a deceased enrolled member, as certified by the authority
having jurisdiction, is qualified to continue to receive an exemption, as long as the deceased
volunteer had been an enrolled member for at least 20 years and the deceased volunteer and
un-remarried spouse had been receiving the exemption at the time of his or her death.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Locai Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on March 20
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^*^
of
y^^as duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legistative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed afterdisapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20l

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors vofing thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the,

20

and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20.^

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Offfcer")
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto iocal laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

^^9^ ^ of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affimnafive vote of a majonty of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ^ _ 20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No..
of 20
of
the County of
jState of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuantto subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcnpt therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted-in-tjie manner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
Clefk of •tt^^cd&fityfegislativebody, City, Town or Village Cleck or /
yW\cer desig riafecHSy local legislative body 1^1^)1//)€ i2>'
^^"lO
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

H ^ h ^ ^ ^ ' ^ j

^ ^ Z - ^

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLIO, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0
vote.
Resolution #48-2023
WHEREAS the Real Property Tax Law §466-a was amended in December of 2022 to provide local
governing bodies, including villages, with the authority to provide real propeity tax exemptions,
subject to certain limitations, to volunteer firefighters and ambulance workers, and
WHEREAS pursuant to these amendments, local governments can implement this property tax
exemption through the adoption of a local law, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductoiy No. 2 of2023 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on March 20, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 2 of2023 to amend Chapter 204, Taxation of the Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, to add new article IX ~ Volunteer Firefighters and Ambulance Workers Exemption,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 2 of 2023.

Dated: March 20, 2023

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village held
onMarch 20^ 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 23'^ daj^xCMarch 2023.


