---
title: "LL 20-2023: TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2023-12-18
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 20-2023: TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-12-18
---

Local Law 20-2023
Filed: 2023-12-18
TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ n r p / / PM/ F i l i n n

Albany, NY 12231-0001

L-UOai LOVy r n n i y

wvw.dos.state.ny.us/corps

{Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

nCity

QTown

[XlVillage

,

yt.

(Selectone:)

f

riUEU

of Crotor.-on-Hudson

^

STATE RECORDS

,

DEirt^io?^—
Local Law No.

20

of the year 2023

A local law ™ AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 ZONING
(lr}sert Title)

^

OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

nCity

QTown

|X|Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 20 OF 2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 ZONING
OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-4, Definitions, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
is amended to read as follows:
FAMILY
One or more persons living together in a single dwelling unit as a traditional family or the
functional equivalent of a traditional family. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that five or more
persons living together in a single dwelling unit, who are not related by blood, adoption or
marriage, do not constitute the functional equivalent of a traditional family. The following criteria
shall be present in determining the functional equivalent of a traditional family:
1. The group is permanent and stable, and not transient or temporary in nature.
2. The group shares the entire dwelling unit, including cooking facilities.
3. The group shares expenses for rent, utilities or other household expenses.
4. Members ofthe household have the same address for purposes of voter's registration,
driver's license, motor vehicle registration, and filing of taxes.
5. Any other factor reasonably related to whether the group is the functional equivalent
of a family. A dwelling unit in which various occupants act as separate roomers may
not be deemed to be occupied by the functional equivalent of a traditional family.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
thereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Cfoton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

November 27

^^ly
20 23

of 2 o 2 2 _ _ of
^^^^^^

, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
„
.
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. arid was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annua[) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County){City){Town)(Vj|lage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or. if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affinnative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that i have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adoptedlrTthe mailnef indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
^dy, City, Town or Village Clerk or
islative body "^A-OO-**^

(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev.08i12)

:

S^*^"^"*^"^

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWIZ, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #238-2023
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory
No. 19 of 2023 to amend and update the definition of family as stated in Chapter
230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS on October 16,2023, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS on November 13, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the
process and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 ofthe EAF "Determination
of Significance" attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 19 of 2023, which was opened and closed on November 13, 2023,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village' s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency
with the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on November 13, 2023, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP Policy's
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with
those policies and conditions ofthe LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy IA: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and
amended where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent
with adopted goals and policies.

The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed
above, were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local
law to update the definition of family as stated in the Zoning Code, complies with
the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 19 of2023, to amend and update the defmition of family
as stated in Chapter 230, Zoning, ofthe Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 20 of2023.
Dated: November 27, 2023
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village held
on the 27th of November 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 04^ day of December 2023.


