---
title: "LL 2-2019: A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED I"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2019-01-31
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 2-2019: A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED I"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-01-31
---

Local Law 2-2019
Filed: 2019-01-31
A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW 3-C

, I New York state Department of state
Division of Corporations, State Riecords'and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated ahd d o j o l use
Italics or underliniha to indicate new matter.
FILED

•County DCity

DTown

STATERECORDS

glVillage

(Select one.)

JAM 3 1 2019

of Crotbn-on-Hudson

i

; DEPARTMENT OF STW^
Local Law No. 02
A local law ^

of the year 2019

'^w authorizing a property tax levy in excess ofthe limit established in

(Insert Title)

~

•'

^

General Municipal Law §3-c

Be Jt enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
J

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Botiy)

•County pCity

DTown

|XlVillage

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

1

.•'

•

•I'

. ^ •,

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

. ,

.

'

• ,

'

• ••

•
'

Page 2 of 4

•

Local Law No. 2 of 2019
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester
A local law authorizing a property tax levy in excess of the limit established in
General Municipal Law §3-c
Section 1. Legislative Intent
It Is the intent of this local law to allow the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to adopt a budget
for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2019 that requires a real property tax levy in
excess ofthe "tax levy limit" as defined by General Municipal Law § 3-c.
Section 2. Authority
This; local law is adopted pursuant to subdivision 5 of General'lMunicipal Law §3-c, which
expressly authorizes a local government's governing body to override the property tax
cap for the coming fiscal year by the adoption of a local law approved by a vote of sixty
percent (60%) of said governing body.
,
Section 3. Tax Levy Limit Override
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester, is
hereby authorized to adopt a budget for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2019 that
requires a real property tax levy in excess ofthe amount otherwise prescribed in General
Municipal Law §3-c.
Section 4. Severability
If a court determines that any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this
local law or the application thereof to any person, firm or coi-poration, or circumstance is
invalid or unconstitutional, the court's order or judgment shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder ofthis local law, but shall be confined? in its operation to the
clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, orpart of this local law or in its application to
the person, Individual, firm or corporation or circumstance, directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment or order shall be rendered.
Section 5. Effective date

'

This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strilce out that which is not applicable.) i
1. (Final adoptjon by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ^ 9
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board OfTrustees -'.
on January 22
20^1
(Name of Legislative Body) .
,
ii
provisions of law.
'
...

of 20ji|
of
.
was duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2,, (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
>
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
»
of 20
of
the (Cpunty)(City)(Town)(Village) of
;
was duly passed by the
—" ': •—:
—J
'.
:
on
20 5
, and was (apDroved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
, i
(repassed after disapproval) by the
? ^'
and was deemed duly adopted
. (Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
'] •
on
20| I I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of laW;

3.: (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

•

of 20

L_i

(. '. '•
:
:
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
. (Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

20

of

was duly passed by the

i
!•

, and was (approved)(not approved)
nn

20

.

Such local law Was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatpry)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(ahnual) election held on
_,
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

[

-

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of _ ^
—
—:
'.
—
.
(Narne of Legislative Body)
(riepassed after disapproval) by the

of

was duly passed by the
-.

on
;

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

20^
v ..
J_on

and was (approved)(not approved)
•

20_

. Such local

i'

law Was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such refereridum was filed as of
20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

;

• J

* Electiye Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
, bej none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer Is
vested with the power to approve dr veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12) .

Page 3 of 4

5.1' (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
' .
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (speciai)(general) election held on
20_
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
'
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as Ibcal law Nn
; »
of 20
of
the County of
^
estate of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please providie an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted-in-tbejTianner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
e body. City, Town or Village Clerk or
iegisiative body
^^^-•y{^^,J~Z^

(Seal)

DOS-b239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

[$.

i
\
!

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
'. resolution was adopted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of (Eroton-on-Hudson, New York
: with the following vote: 4-0.
Resolution #7-2019
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that establishes a "property
tax cap" on the amount that a local government's property tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS, this law is effective for local government's fiscal year begirming in 2012; and
J

1'

WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes charged on the
municipality's taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at 2% or the rate of inflation,
whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
; '
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local goverrmients to override the cap to protect the
Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
!
WHEREAS, state, legislation requires that in the event that ah oyerride is necessary, the law
enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2019 has been drafted to override the "property tax
cap" law enacted by State Legislature if necessary;'and
i
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 22, 2019,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 1 of 2019 to override the "property tax cap'' law enacted by State Legislature
if necessary, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 2 ofi2019.
Dated: January 22, 2019

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)

'
'

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, inthe County of Westchester, State
of Is[ew York, do hereby, certify that the armexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board ofTrustees of said Village held
on January 22, 2019.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
yillagecJhi^B'^'' day of January

Resolution #5 of 2019
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE! SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted unanimously by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, NewYork; with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor tenacted legislation that
establishes a "property tax cap" on the amount that a local government's property
tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS, this law became effective for a. local government's fiscal year beginning
in 2012; and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes
charged on the municipality's taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at 2
percent or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments,to override the cap to
protect the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event thatlan override is necessary,
the law enabling it must already have been adopted by the' Board ofTrustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2019 has been drafted to override the
"property tax cap" law enacted by State Legislature if nece^ssary;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Tuesday, January 22, 2019 at 8 p.m. in the Georgianna
Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider
Local Lavv Introductory No. 1 of 2019 to override the "prop|erty tax cap" law enacted
by State Legislature.

Dated: January 7, 2019


