---
title: "LL 2-2017: AMENDING CHAPTER 70 ALARM SYSTEMS"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2017-05-10
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 2-2017: AMENDING CHAPTER 70 ALARM SYSTEMS"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2017-05-10
---

Local Law 2-2017
Filed: 2017-05-10
AMENDING CHAPTER 70 ALARM SYSTEMS

New York State Department of State
Division ofCorporations, State Records and Unifonn Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
wwvy.dos.state, ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include mattei' being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

[x]Village

>'^nCED"

of Croton-on-Hudson

_

m 1 0 20)7
ft-'

Local Law No.

2

of the year 2017

A local law ^'^^"'^'"9 Chapter 70. Alarm Systems.
(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the .^'"^9^^°^^^°^^^"^*^^^

,

^ _

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

DCounty

DCity

DTown

DVillage

(Selectone:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

S E E ATTACHED

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

Local Law Filing
NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY, 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 2 of the year 2017
A local law amending Chapter 70. Alarm Systems.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1.
Ch. 70. Alarm Systems of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby repealed
and amended to read as follows:

Chapter 70. Alarm Systems
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson 9-4;-1990 by
L.L. No. 6-1990.JTJ Amendments noted where applicable.]
GENERAL REFERENCES
Noise —See.Ch. 160.
JJQ Editor's Note: This local law superseded former Ch. 70, Alarm Systems, which consisted of
the following: Art. I, Regulations and Control, adopted 9-18-1972, as amended; Art. II,
Automatic Cutoff Systems, adopted 1-3-1977 by L.L. No. 1-1977, as amended.

Article I. General Provisions
§ 70-1. Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations and standards applicable to alarm devices,
alarm businesses, alarm agents and alarm users as defined in this chapter.
§ 70-2. Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
1 .

ALARM
A signal transmitted to police or fire headquarters by a central alarm station which is
intended to notify the Police or Fire Department of a burglary, robbery or fire at a
prernises within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to which the Police or Fire Department
is expected to respond.
ALARM AGENT
Any individual who is employed by any person conducting the business of owning,
operating, riiaintaining, installing, leasing or selling alarm devices whose duties include
any of the following: selling, maintaining, leasing, servicing, repairing, altering,
replacing, moving or installing in or on any building, place or premises any alarm device,
as defined in this chapter, within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
ALARM BUSINESS
'
Any person engaged in the business of owning, operating, maintaining, installing, leasing
or selling an alarm device or devices or system of alarm devices, which business is, as
owner, operator, provider of maintenance service, installer, lessor or seller of said device,
devices or system of devices.
ALARM DEVICE
Any device which, when activated, transmits a signal to a central alarm station and/or
produces an audible pr visible signal to which the Police or Fire Department is expected
to respond.
ALARM INSTALLATION
Any alarm device or aggregation of alarm devices installed on or within a single building
of on or within more than one building or area adjacently located on a common site, at a
specific location.
ALARM USER
Any person on whose premises an alarm device is owned, operated, used or maintained.
CENTRAL ALARM STATION
A. Any facility operated by a private firm that receives and verifies alarm signals and relays
information about such verified signals to the Police or Fire Department.
B. A "central alarm station" shall include all alarm users whose alarm device or devices or
system of alarm devices is capable of transmitting an alarm directly to his/her computer, smart
phone, or other mobile device via a wireless signal.
FALSE ALARM

Any alarm resulting from the activation of an alarm device to which the Police or Fire
Department responds and which is not the result of a robbery, burglary or fire.
LESSEE
Any person applying for an alarm permit renting or using the premises who is not the
property owner.
[Added 5-20-2002 by L.L. No. 4-2002]
LOCAL ALARM DEVICE
Any alarm device not connected to a central alarm station which, when activated, causes
an audible and/or visual signaling device to be activated at the premises on or within
which the device is installed.
MALFUNCTION
A mechanical deficiency or other fault or failure in an alarm device which results in a
false alarm.
MANUAL ALARM DEVICE
Any alarm device in which activation of the alarm signal is initiated by the direct action
of the alarm iiser.
PERMIT AUTHORITY
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
PERSON
Any natural person or any other entity.
RESPONDS
Acknowledgment that police and/or fire headquarters have received an alarm by an act of
answering a telephone call, noting information received and starting any process of
response, such as notifying vehicles of receipt of an alarm or any other act commencing
the process of acting as a Police or Fire Department on account of such notification.
VERIFICATION
Qualification of the legitimacy of an alarm signal by various means which may under
normal conditions include but shall not be limited to customer call-in, central station callout, automatic abort or built-in delay.

Article II. Permit Authoritv
§ 70-3. Authorization to issue permits.

The Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby authorized to grant a revocable alarm user permit to
any owner of property located within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or the lessee thereofto
own or lease an alarm device.

Article III. Permits
§ 70-4. Application; renewal; certification; display.

'

A. Application for an alarm user permit shall be made as follows: Any property owner or lessee
of property in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson having on such premises an alarm device or
system of alarm devices shall apply to the Village Manager or other Village agent for a permit to
own or otherwise have such a device. Each lessee must have written authorization from the
property owner acknowledging liability for any and all fines incurred by his or her lessee. No
such device may be installed on the premises of the owner or" lessee prior to the issuance of a
permit to such owner or lessee. In addition, the Village will notify the landlord ofany false alarm
against the property and any fines imposed by virtue of the tenant's alarm permit.
[Amended 5-20-2002 by L.L. No. 4-2002]
B^Such permit shall be renewed on an annual basis starting in January of each year and ending
in December of the same year. All applications and renewals shall require certification, by an
alarm agent, that the device or system of devices is in good working order and meets all
applicable code requirements within 12 months prior to the application or renewal.
[Added 5-20-2002 by L.L. No. 5-2002JT1]
[1] Editor's Note: This local law provided that it take effect 1-1-2003, apd also redesignated
former Subsection B as Subsection C.
C. The alarm user permit number will be displayed at the alarm user's premises in accordance
with the rules promulgated by the Village Manager.
S 70^5. Fees.
Permit fees shall be established by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees,]!] and no refund
of permit fees shall be-made.
[1] Editor's Note: The current fee resolution is on file in the Village offices.
§ 70-6. Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any property owner or lessee of property in the Village of Croton-onHudson to have on his premises ari alarm device or devices or system of alarm devices without
first obtaining a permit as provided in this chapter.
4

§ 70-7. Denial, suspension or revocation of permit or disconnection of alarm.
•

-

I

j
•
, •
The Village Manager or his agent may require the denial, suspension or revocation ofany permit
or the disconnection of any alarm device in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson at any time that he
deems necessary for the violation of any standards or regulations promulgated by the Village
Manager pursuant to this chapter. Any permit or identification card issued under this chapter
shall be surrendered upon a final adverse determiriation as provided in this chapter.
S 70-8. Refund of fee.
No part of a permit fee shall be refunded when a permit is suspended or revoked.
§ 70-9. Contesting of denial, suspension, revocation or charges.
Any applicant whose application for a permit has been denied or any person whose permit has
been suspended or revoked by the Village Manager or who is charged for one or more false
alarms may contest such denial, suspension, revocation dr charges, in writing, to the Village
Manager within 10 days after the date of the notice of denial, suspension, revocation or charges.
The decision of the Village Manager shall be made within 10 days and shall be final.
§ 70-10. Payment of charges.

\
I

Charges for false alarms and/or other expenses incurred by the Village as a result ofthe
installation and operation of such alarrn device or devices or system of alarm devices are payable
within 30 days from the'date of notification without penalty. Penalties for each unpaid charge
will be assessed monthly in accordance with the rules promulgated by the Village Manager.

Article IV. Responsibility of Village
J

S 70-11. Liabilitv.
A. Notwithstanding the payment of any fee and/or the issuance of any permit as herein required,
the Police Department, Fire Department and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall be under no
obligation whatsoever conceming the adequacy, the operation or maintenance ofany alarm
device so installed or of any central alarm station. The Village of Croton-on-Hudson and its
authorized agents assume no liability whatsoever for any failure of any such alarm device or of
any central alarm system or for failure to respond to any such alarms or for any act of omission
or commission relating to any alarm device or system.
B. The alarm user or perrriittee, by acceptance of a permit, agrees to hold and save harmless the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson and its agents or employees from any liability whatsoever with
respect to any such alarm device or the operation thereof

Article V. Restrictions
§ 70-12. Restrictions enumerated.
A. No person shall use or cause or permit to be used any alarm device that automatically selects
a telephone trunk line of the Police or Fire Department for the Village of Grpton-on-Hudson and
then reproduces any prerecorded voice messages to report any robbery, burglary or fire.
B. No person shall use or cause or permit to be used any alarm device which, when activated,
causes an audible and/or visual signaling device at the premises on or within which the device is
installed unless such device will automatically tum itself off after 10 minutes.

Article VI. False Alarms
§ 70-13. Intentional false alarms.
It shall be a violation of this chapter to intentionally cause a false alarm, and any person who
does intentionally cause a false alarm shall be subject to the penalty proyisions of this chapter.
§ 70-14. Responsibility for malfunctions.
A. The alarm user or lessee shall be responsible for the maintenance and service of the alarm
device and shall be responsible for all malfunctions of such device.
B. A malfunction of an alarm user's system constitutes a false alarm.
§ 70-15. Charges.
[Amended 5-20-2002 by L.L. No. 5-2002]Tl]
Any owner or lessee of property having an alarm device or system of devices on such premises
shall pay to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson a charge as may be set by the Village from time to
time for each and every false alarm occurring in any fiscal year beginning with January 1, 2003.
. JT] Editor's Note: This local law provided that it take effect 1-1-2003.
§ 70-16. Payinent and contesting of charges.
A. All charges will be collected by the Village Treasurer. Failure to pay a charge shall subject
such alarm user or lessee to the penalty provisions of this chapter.

B. Any alarm user or lessee charged with a false alarm must pay the amount charged within 30
days of date of notice of the charge. Anyone charged with one or more false alarms may contest
such charges in the manner provided in Article III, § 70-9. of this chapter.
§ 70-17. Fees for costs incurred.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson may require that a fee or fees be paid by any alarm user for
costs incurred or which may be incurred by the Village on account of the installation and
operation of such alarm device.

Article VII. General Regulations
§ 70-18. Unlawful equipment.
In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the Village Manager of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, or his agent, whenever he shall have knowledge of the use of any alarm device,
which is not operated or maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or which is
contrary to regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter, may order the disconnection of such
device from the central alarm station, and it shall be unlawful to disobey such order.
§ 70-19. Additional rules, regulations and standards.
The Village Manager shall promulgate mles, regulations and standards applicable to alarm
devices, alarm businesses, alarm agents and alarm users which are necessary for the purpose of
assuring the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of alarm devices and alarm installations owned,
operated, maintained, installed or leased by an alarm user imder this chapter. The mles,
regulations and standards shall be set forth in writing, and copies shall be available for
applicants.
§ 70-20. Central alarm station.

^

The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to prescribe the marmer of communication and
transmission of information between a central alarm station and the Police Department.
$ 70-21. Applicability.

None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to an alarm device or devices installed in
public-owned buildings, local alarm devices, or an alarm device or devices installed in a motor
vehicle or trailer or to employees of a public utility company engaged in the business of
providing communication, services or facilities.
§ 70-22. Penalties for offenses.

The failure of any person to obtain any permit as required by Articles II and III or to perform or
obey any provision of this chapter or to obey any order of the permit authority, the Village
Manager or the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department pursuant to this chapter constitutes a
violation punishable by a fine of not less than $ 100 but up to $250 for each violation. Each day
that such violation continues after the expiration of any period allowed for compliance under the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 70-23. Unpaidfines,fees and charges.
Unpaid fines, false alarm fees, permit fees or other charges shall become a lien upon the property
firom which the alarm resulting in a call to police or fire headquarters originated, resulting in
such fine, fee or charge and will be collected in the same manner as real estate taxes after the
provisions of Article III, § 70-9, are exhausted if initiated by the owner Or lessee.
§ 70-24. Tampering with alarms.
Any person who shall intentionally tamper with, destroy or compromise any alarm or alarm
device or equipment connected therewith, which alarm or alarm device is govemed by the
provisioris of this chapter, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strilte out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
.
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 2 0 l i
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
"
was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees
on May 1
L 2 0 ^ ] _ , in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval^ no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
.
'
- was duly passed by the
-.
^
-.
:
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
:
'
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

.

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
'
(Name of Legislative Body) ,

:

.
on

'
.

(repassed after disapproval) by the

-.

20
.•

'
-.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

-.

of 20
^

of

was duly passed by the

. and was (approved)(not approved)
,'
on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendurn, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20_

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subjectto permissive referendum and final adoptioh because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

.
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

'.
'
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

of 20

•

was duly passed by the
20
_on

, and was (approved)(not approved)
20

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

of

. Such local
:

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chiefexccutive officer ofa county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12) '

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local lawconcerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
•the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
,
of 20
of
the County of
iState of NewYork, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the IVlunicipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative yote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally ajopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
Clerls^the cou
o*fIcer designate'

(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

body, City, Town or VilJagaIiieilu)r
yills
legislative body

3/

Page 4 of 4


