---
title: "LL 2-2020: A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED I"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2020-01-27
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 2-2020: A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED I"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2020-01-27
---

Local Law 2-2020
Filed: 2020-01-27
A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW 3-C

New York State Department of State
Division ofCorporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. dos, state, ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter,
STATE RECORDS
• C o u n t y D C i t y DTown
^Village

JAN 2 1 ZOZQ

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.

DEPARTMENT QF STATB

02

A local law ^

of the year 2 0 ^
authorizing a property tax levy in excess of the limit established in

(Insert Title)

General Municipal Law §3-c

Be it enacted by the V'Hage Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

DCounty

DCity

DTown

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-i (Rev, 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

Local Law No. 2 of 2020
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester
A local law authorizing a property tax levy in e x c e s s of the limit established In
General Municipal Law §3-c
Section 1. Legislative Intent
It is the intent of this local law to allow the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to adopt a budget
for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2020 that requires a real property tax levy in
excess ofthe "tax levy limit" as defined by General Municipal Law § 3-c.
Section 2. Authority
This local law is adopted pursuant to subdivision 5 of General Municipal Law §3-c, which
expressly authorizes a local government's governing body to override the property tax
cap for the coming fiscal year by the adoption of a locai law approved by a vote of sixty
percent (60%) of said governing body.
Section 3. Tax Levy Limit Override
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester, is
hereby authorized to adopt a budget for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2020 that
requires a real property tax levy in excess ofthe amount otherwise prescribed in General
Municipal Law §3-c.
Section 4. Severability
If a court determines that any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this
local law or the application thereof to any person, firm or corporation, or circumstance is
invalid or unconstitutional, the court's order or judgment shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder of this local law, but shall be confined in its operation to the
clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this local law or in its application to
the person, individual, firm or corporation or circumstance, directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment or order shall be rendered.
Section 5. Effective date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Findl adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on January 21
{Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

20 20
— =

of 20^2
of
^Lj|y pasggd by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
{Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
{Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

3.

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designaied as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

{Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

nn

20

{Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law,

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
^
{Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such locai

{Elective Chief Executive Officer")
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

• Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
. of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote o f a majority ofthe qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20_^
, became operative,

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local iaw annexed hereto, designated as locai law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe IVlunicipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative,

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally-adoptedic^ the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
egislative body. City, Town or Village Clerk or
local legislative body
Pfi-i^^^^^T^T^tA-'r^

(Seal)

-

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

/ /

^Z^hpT^

Page 4 of 4

Oil motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the
following vote: 5-0.
Resolution #7-2020
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that establishes a
"property tax cap" on the amount that a local government's property tax levy can increase each
year; and
WHEREAS, this law is effective for local government's fiscal year beginning in 2012; and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes charged on the
municipality's taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at 2% or the rate of inflation,
whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local govemments to override the cap to protect
the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event that an override is necessary, the law
enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2020 has been drafted to override the "property
tax cap" law enacted by State Legislature if necessary; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 21, 2020,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2020 to override the "property tax cap" law enacted by State
Legislature if necessary, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 2 of 2020.

Dated: January 21, 2020

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on January 21^^ 2020.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal ofthe
said Viilage this22!!iday of January 2020.

(Seal)


