---
title: "LL 3-2022: TO AMEND CHAPTER  230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TO E"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2022-03-15
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 3-2022: TO AMEND CHAPTER  230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TO E"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-03-15
---

Local Law 3-2022
Filed: 2022-03-15
TO AMEND CHAPTER  230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TO ESTABLISH USE AND BULK/AREA REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE NORTH END GATEWAY DISTRICT

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. dos. state. ny. u s/co rps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
STATE RECORDS
•County DCity DTown
^Village
(Selectone:)

|/1/\R 1 5

202Z

of Croton-on-Hudson
—

Local Law No.
A local law

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

of the year 2022

03

TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THEVILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ESTABLISH USE AND BULK/AREA REGULATIONS
PERTAINING TO THE NORTH END GATEWAY DISTRICT

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name ofLegislative Body)

•County

DCity

DTown

DVillage

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 03-2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE
V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSONTO ESTABLISH USE AND
BULK/AREA REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE
NORTH END GATEWAY DISTRICT
Be it enacted by the Board of Tmstees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-20.3B. Special Permit Uses in the Gateway Areas shall be amended
by adding new subsection 230-20.3B(5) to read as follows:
(5) In the North End Gateway District area on any lot where the underlying zoning is Limited
Office 0-1 district, multi-family residential buildings and mixed use buildings shall be permitted
by special permit of the Village Board of Tmstees, subject to the following requirements and
criteria and to the requirements/criteria contained in Article X of this chapter:
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, for the
purposes of this section, "mixed use" shall mean a combination in one building of
residential dwelling units and other permitted and/or special permit uses, including,
but not limited to retail stores and banks, personal service establishments, and
business and professional offices, and showrooms; provided, however:
[ 1 ] At least 5 0% of the area of the first floor of any mixed use building must
be used for nonresidential use. Residential uses may not be located in the
portion of a building's first fioor which is immediately inside the building's
front facade, it being the intention of this chapter that first floor front
building facades, and the building areas immediately inside first floor front
building facades, will be used for nonresidential purposes. It is the ftirther
intention of this law that any first floor residential space will be located
"behind" first floor nonresidential space as viewed from the street/sidewalk
adjacent to the building front. For the purpose of this subsection, buildings
located on street comers shall be deemed to have building fronts on each of
the intersecting streets which form the street comer.
[2] There shall be no percentage restrictions on the amount of residential
versus nomesidential space on the second or third floor of a mixed-use
building.

[3] Residential dwelling units may be studios, one-bedroom units and twobedroom units only.
(b) Notwithstanding any provisions of § 230-20.4 or any other provisions of this
chapter to the contrary, the following area and bulk regulations shall apply to mixed
use and multi-family residential buildings in the North End Gateway area
overlaying the Limited Office O-l district. To the extent that contrary area/bulk
regulations are not specified in this subsection, they shall be as otherwise provided
in this Code:
[1] Maximum floor area ratio (FAR) shall be 0.8.
[2] Maximum height shall be 35 feet/three stories.
[3] The Village Board shall have the authority in conducting special permit
review to reduce or waive yard setback requirement(s) of the underlying
zone, provided that there is otherwise adequate access to parking areas, and
provided that one or more of the following criteria are met:
[a] Reducing the setback(s) will facilitate more parking to be
provided in the rear of the building than would otherwise be the case.
[b] Reducing the setback(s) will faciUtate the intercormection of rear
parking lots with those on adjoining properties.
[c] Reducing the setback(s) will contribute to the building forming
a more unified, cohesive streetscape with existing or proposed
buildings on other properties in the North End Gateway District than
would otherwise be the case.
[4] In accordance with the general provisions of this chapter, comer lots
shall be deemed to havefrontyards on each of the intersecting streets which
form the corner and the front yard on a Village street shall be 50 feet.
(c) In addition to the requirements set forth in § 230-48 or any other provisions of
this chapter, at least one Affordable Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH)
unit shall be provided in any mixed use or muhi-family residential building in the
North End Gateway area overlaying the Limited Office O-l district having 5 to 9
units, which unit shall be subject to the requirements of §230-48.
(d) Design regulations. In addition to any other design regulations provided in this
Code, the following design guidelines shall apply to mixed use and multi-family
residential buildings in the North End Gateway area overlaying the Limited Office
O-l district:

[1] All vehicle access shall be from the state highway except that vehicle
access for one and two-family homes may also be from a Village street.
[2] Mixed use and multi-family residential buildings in the North End
Gateway District area shall be subject to such additional design guidelines
as may be adopted by resolution of the Board ofTrustees from time to time.
(e) Parking.
[1] Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, for
mixed use or multi-family residential buildings in the North End Gateway
District area overlaying the Limited Office O-l district there shall be
provided at least the following amount of parking for each residential
dwelling unit: one parking space for each studio or one-bedroom unit and
two spaces for each unit with two or more bedrooms. The minimum parking
for non-residential space shall be as otherwise required by this chapter. The
Village Board of Tmstees, as part of its special permit determination, shall
have the authority to increase or decrease these parking requirements. In
the case of each application, the Village Board of Trustees shall consider
and make a finding as to whether the above-stated parking requirements are
adequate or will be increased or decreased based upon the following factors:
[a] The mix of uses proposed to be conducted in the various spaces
in the building, considering, among other things, the extent to which
their parking demands are likely to overlap.
[b] Whether the applicant is willing to limit areas ofthe building to
only certain uses.
[c] The square footage of each of the proposed residential and
commercial units in the building.
[d] The availability of nearby dedicated parking on other adjacent
properties. Any dedicated parking on other adjacent properties shall
be by a filed legal agreement.
[e] Such other factors as the Board may deem relevant on a case-bycase basis.
[2] The Board shall have the authority to require applicant(s) to provide
and/or pay for a professional parking study.

Section Two. Section 230-20.4 Area and bulk regulations for the Gateway Overlay Districts
shall be amended to read as follows:
§230-20.4 Area and bulk regulations.
A. Maximum allowable floor area ratio. With the exception of mixed-use development in the
Harmon/South Riverside area and multi-family or mixed occupancy development
permitted in the Municipal Place Gateway and the North End Gateway areas as permitted
in Section 230-20.3B(4) and (5) above, the maximum floor area ratio (FAR) standards that
shall be adhered to for new development shall be the FAR listed for the underlying zone
or the following, whichever is more restrictive:
(1) For single-use properties, that is, a property proposed for only one principal
permitted use: 0.35.
(2) For multi-use properties, including combinations of retail and office, retail and
residential uses or office and residential: 0.40.
B. Maximum building square footage. With the exception of lots within the C-2 Zoning
District in the Municipal Place Gateway area fronting on Municipal Place and lots within
the 0-1 Zoning District in the North End Gateway to be used for a mixed-use or multifamily residential building, the maximum permissible square footage for any single
building shall not exceed 20,000 square feet. This requirement is imposed in order to
encourage a compact urban design of the gateway.
C. Maximum permitted square footage for any single commercial use. With the exception of
lots within the C-2 Zoning District in the Municipal Place Gateway fronting on Municipal
Place, the maximum permissible square footage for any single commercial use by any
single occupant or tenant shall not exceed 8,000 square feet of gross floor area.
D. Maximum height. Maximum height shall be as permitted for the underiying zone as
provided elsewhere in this Chapter, except for the following:
(1) Maximum height for mixed use development in the Harmon/South Riverside
Gateway or the North End Gateway area shall be 3 stories and 35 feet.
(2) Maximum height for buildings within the C-2 Zoning District in the Municipal
Place Gateway area on lots fronting on Municipal Place shall be 3 stories and
35 feeL
Section Three. Section 230~42.1G under Mixed Occupancy shall be amended to read as follows:
G.
The provisions of this Section 230-42.1 shall not apply to properties located in
the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay area or the North End Gateway Overlay area
which are permitted as set forth in Section 230-20.3B(3) and Section 230-20.3B(5) and defined
as "mixed use" therein, or to mixed occupancy buildings permitted in the Mimicipal Place
Gateway Overlay area as permitted in Section 230-20.3B(4).

Section Four - Severability. I f any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this
Local Law is, for any reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency,
commission, legislative body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall affect the validity of
the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effecL
Section Five - Effective Date. This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the
office of the New York State Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal
Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the fiiing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 25
the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on March 07
^ngg
(Name ofLegislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^^
of
^^^ly passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
on

was duly passed by the
, and was (approved)(not approved)

20

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive OfRcer*)

on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved){not approved)

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(specjal)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as iocal law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(ViHage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

andwas (approved)(notapproved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
iaw was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive OfRcer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local iaw No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon ^t the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify thatthe local iaw annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and ofthe whole of such original local law, and was fina]!y.ad©pte(^ in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
C\epflot the c^uhjy legislative body. City, Town or Village Clerk.or
oJffcer designated by locai legislative body
"pi^-ot,b> •
(Seal)

_ :

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

3 l ^/-z^^Z.

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0
vote.
Resolution #29-2022
WHEREAS Matra Group, LLC, the owner of property at 1380 Albany Post Road consisting of
approximately 1,6 acres in size located in the Limited Office (O-l) zoning district in the North
End Gateway Overlay District (the "Property"), submitted a Petition to the Village Board of
Tmstees for a Zoning Amendment to establish use and bulk/area regulations pertaining to the
North End Gateway District to allow for a mixed-use development of approximately 33,400 square
feet on the Property, and
WHEREAS on November 3, 2021, the Village Board of Tmstees circulated its notice of intent to
be Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and referred the Petition to the Village Planning Board and
Westchester County Planning Board, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees received comments on the proposed Zoning Amendment from
the Village Planning Board and the Westchester County Planning Board, and subsequently
received comments from the Village Waterfront Advisory Conmiittee regarding a
recommendation on Consistency with the LWRP, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees reviewed the comments at a work session of the Board and
requested certain revisions be made to the proposed Zoning Amendment, and
WHEREAS on February 7, 2022, the Village Board of Tmstees held a public hearing on the
proposed Zoning Amendment at which time all those wishing to be heard had an opportunity to
speak, and the Board of Tmstees closed the public hearing, and
WHEREAS on February 28, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees reviewed tiie EAF Part 2 and
verbally answered the questions set forth therein based upon the entire record with specific
reference to information in Part I as identified in the Part 2 form, and determined there were no
potential impacts identified as moderate to large, and therefore no additional analysis was required
in a Part 3, and directed the preparation of the Part 2 and Part 3 forms and a negative declaration
under SEQRA for adoption, and
WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with respect to
its SEQRA determination of significance as set forth at the February 28, 2022, meeting in written
form, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has reviewed each of the 44 policies and sub-policies thereunder
set forth in the LWRP and the explanation of each policy as set forth in the LWRP, and
WHEREAS at its meeting on February 28, 2022 the Village Board verbally made hsfindingswith
respect to each ofthe policies and sub-policies and directed the preparation of a resolution that,
based upon its review of the LWRP, the EAF, the Coastal Assessment Form, and the Waterfront

Advisory Committee's recommendations, and the review and discussion undertaken by the Board,
the proposed action complies with the policy standards and conditions and is consistent with the
policies of the LWRP, and
WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with respect to
its determination of consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) as set
forth at the Febmary 28, 2022 meeting in written form, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has considered all comments received both verbally and in writing
as part of the public hearing and throughout this process on the proposed Zoning Amendment,
together with all other documents and correspondence which are a part of the record on this matter,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto, and adopts a Negative
Declaration under SEQRA in coimection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board makes die followingfindingsregarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies
and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy l A - Existing plaiming and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies.
The Village Board found that this policy was applicable to the proposed action in that it
includes a zoning modification which should be reviewed pursuant to this policy. The
Board found the action is consistent with this policy as the proposed zoning amendment
will result in residential development in this area which is consistent with the adopted goals
and policies of the Village in the LWRP and Comprehensive Plan.
Policy 5A - When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the
cunent service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas
where distribution lines currently exist.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable and that the proposed action is
consistent and complies with this policy as it directs development within the North End
Gateway area within the service area of existing water facilities and that although public
sewer is not available, adequate septic systems can be provided and would be appropriate.
Policy 5C - Limit proposed development within those portions of the coastal zone boundary
area, where traffic impacts such as site distance and carrying capacity of the roadways are
restricted, particularly along Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route 129.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable and that the proposed action will
comply with and be consistent with the proposed policy. The Property is located along a
section of Albany Post Road which has sufficient sight distance and capacity.

The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above were
reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board ofTrustees confirms
its determination that the Proposed Action, including the Zoning Amendment and proposed
development, complies with the policy
standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED tiiat the Village Board ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2022 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, ofthe Code ofthe
Village of Croton-on-Hudson to establish Use and Bulk/Area Regulations pertaining to the North
End Gateway District, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 3 of 2022.
Dated: March 7,2022

StateofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in ray
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board ofTrustees of said Village held
on March 07"^ , 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 10*^ day of March 2022.


