---
title: "LL 3-2017: AMENDING CHAPTER 223"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2017-05-10
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 3-2017: AMENDING CHAPTER 223"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2017-05-10
---

Local Law 3-2017
Filed: 2017-05-10
AMENDING CHAPTER 223

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos,state.ny,us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law/ should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

nCity

DTown

[x]Village

-^fVLBD
f l T A T i RECORDSJ

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

MAY 10 2017.
LocalLawNo. 3

of the year 2017

A local law amending Chapter 223.
(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

'

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County nCity

QTown

[x]Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

S E E ATTACHED

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No..2 of the year 2017
A local law amending Chapter 223: Water

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1: Article I (Water Service Regulations) of Chapter 223 of the Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson is hereby repealed and replaced in its entirety with a new Article I to read as
follows:

ARTICLE I
Water Service Regulations

§223-1. Title.

^

This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Water Department Regulations
Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
§ 223-2. Definitions.
As used in this Article, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the
meanings given herein:
BOARD — The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.
DEPARTMENT — The Water Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.
MANAGER — The Village Manager of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.
OWNER — The owner of the premises, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents,
receiver, executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of a building or
premises.
PREMISES — A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or structures thereon.
VILLAGE — The Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.
§ 223-3. Purpose.
The purpose of this Article is to provide for the health and safety of village residents by regulating
the installation and alteration of all water mains and conduits in the village and by prescribing
rules and regulations for the distribution and metering of water and for the conservation of water
during emergencies.

§ 223-4. Application for water service, fees.
A.

B.

Application.
(1)

Application for water service must be made at the office of the Village Engineer
on forms fumished for that purpose and must be signed either by the property
owner, contractor or the plumber who is to perform the work. The location of
the property' to be served must be shown on the Tax Maps of the village, as
well as the street name and house number, if assigned. Applications must be
retumed to the office of the Village Engineer, properly completed, at least 72
hours before the work is to be commenced. All work to be done must be
inspected and approved by the Superintendent of the Department of Public Works
or his representative prior to acceptance. In the case of service cormections which
are larger than one inch, applications must be retumed to the Village Engineer,
properly completed, at least 15 days prior to the commencement of work
(excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays).

(2)

The application constitutes a binding obligation on the part ofthe applicant,
and each applicant agrees to be bound by all mles, regulations and laws of the
village and the Department now in force and/or which may from time to time
be adopted.

All fees for water service connections must be paid in advance. Prior to any work being
performed in the street ROW all other required permits shall be obtained from the
appropriate agency.

§ 223-5. Service connections and charges.
A.

Each premises in single ownership must be provided with a water service
connection with no more than one water service connection per premises. Each
water service connection must be metered.

B.

Work in connection with the tapping of mains and/or waterlines of the village
water district (up to two inch in size) must in all cases be performed by employees of
the Department. Work in connection with the installation of water service connections
between the,mains and the street (lot) lines must in all cases be performed under the
supervision of employees of the Department. For service cormections greater than two
inch, the property owner shall assume the cost of the tapping sleeve, valve
installation and service connections from the main to the street (lot) lines, with all
work to be performed under the supervision of the employees of the Department. In
all cases, the owner of the property is responsible for all work outside the street lines.
Tapping of all village mains is the domain of the Water Department. The owner must
secure a qualified licensed plumber for all work performed between the main and the
curb stop. The curb box shall be located no further than three (3) feet from the edge of
pavement (or curb where curbs are in place). In the case where the water main is
located between the edge of pavement (or curb where curbs are in place) and the
property line, the curb box shall be located as close to the main as practicable, but in

any case between the main and the property line. In all cases where a curb box is
improperly located on private property, the Water Department shall not be responsible
for the repair and maintenance of the service line beyond the proper curb box location,
even though no curb box may be in place at the proper location. Upon' completion of
designated work and prior to backfilling of trenches, all work must be inspected and
approved by the Superintendent of the Department of Public Works or his designated
representative.
V-

•

.

.

.

.

.

C.

The service line from the curb stop to the buildings shall be installed and maintained
entirely by the owner at a depth of not less than 42 inches but not greater than 48
inches. All pipe that is installed from the curb stop to.the water main must be of Type
K copper in conformance with the Department-installed standards. Such service line
shall be not less than 3/4 inch in inside diameter. Each service line must be installed in
accordance with the Department's water service installation diagram.

D.

Whenever an existing water service connection is to be replaced or abandoned, the
existing water service connection is to be removed in its entirety and the cormection
to the main shut off by the Department, with all work being at the owner's expense, j

E.

All owners, contractors or plumbers are required to notify the Department, in
writing, whenever they are renewing or repairing a customer's service line. After due
notification of a leak in that portion of the service line for which the ovraer is
responsible, such leak shall be repaired within 72 hours, or the owner will be subject to
the penalties prescribed under § 223-13 hereof

F.

Fire-protection systems must be designed, installed and maintained in conformity with
National Fire Protectibn Association (NFPA) regulations and other applicable
regulations.

§223-6. Meter installation and charges.
A.

All water must be supplied by meter measurement except for private fire hydrants and/or
fire sprinkler service except i f required by the Department. I f a meter is required for a
private hydrant and/ or fire sprinkler service, then the owner must fiimish, install and
maintain such meter at no cost to the village or Department.

B.

^ Meters up to one-and-one-half-inch maximum size shall be fumished by and shall rernain
the property of the village. Approved meters over the prescribed maximum size shall be
fiimished, installed and maintained by the owner at the owner's expense.

C.

All meters must be installed by the owner or licensed plumber at his or her own
expense. Replacement meters up to a maximum size of 1 1/2 inches will be fumished
by and installed by the Department. Replacement meters above the prescribed maximum
size shall be fumished, installed and maintained by the owner at the owner's expense.
Shutoff valves must be placed on the outlet side and on the inlet side of all water'meters.
These valves must be installed within two feet of the water meter. Meters shall be installed
and located where they are not subjectto freezing and are readily accessible for removal
by Department persormel. All meters shall be installed in accordance with the

Department's water service installation diagram or plan approved by the Village Engineer.
In no case shall any branch line or any form of outlet be coimected to the service at any
point between the main and the meter. .
D.

Meters must be accessible to and subject to the control of the Department at all times.
No one other than employees of the Department shall move or interfere with the
operation of the meter except by permission of the Department. When meters are sealed,
the seal may be broken only by an employee of the Department. Should the seal be
broken other than by an employee of the Department, the owner will be held fiilly
responsible, and the Department reserves the right to order the meter removed for test at
the expense of the owner. The charge for this test shall be that which is in force at the
time of test.

E.

Where the building to be served is located more than 50 feet from the curb stop, the
Department may require the meter to be placed at an approved point outside the building
in a meter vault approved by the Department. It is the responsibility of the owner
to maintain the meter vault in a condition of good repair and free from all debris so
that the meter can be easily, read. The meter vault must be approved by the
Superintendent of The Department of Public Works or his designee prior to the
installation of the meter:

F.

All work iri connection with the maintenance of meters up to a maximum size of
1 1/2 inches will be performed by the Department; all other must be maintained by
the ovmer. If a meter is out of order or fails to register the water consumption properly,
it will be changed or repaired as heretofore stipulated. Damage to meters caused by
negligence of the consumer or owner will be charged to the owner; this includes frozen
meters aiid meters daniaged by hot water. All water that passes through the meter
will be charged to the owner whether the water is legitimately used or wasted through
leakage.

G.

In the case of a disputed account involving the accuracy of a meter, such meter
shall be tested, if within the Department's Jurisdiction, upon a request of the owner or
consumer. All meter testing shallbe paid for by the owner/consumer and payment shall
be made at the time the reqviest for the testing is made. In the event that the meter
so tested, upon a request of. the owner/ consumer is found to have an error in
registration (more than 3%, plus or minus), the bill will be increased or decreased
accordingly, but no retroactive reimbursement shall be made to the owner/consumer
for previous billing period(s). If ttie meter is found to be over- registering by more
than the aforesaid allowable rate, then the cost of the test shall be home by the
Department, and the amount paid for the test shall be retumed to the owner Or consumer.
If the meter so tested shall be found to have no error in registration (less than 3%,
pliis or minus) the payment shall be retained by the Department as compensation for
such test. The fee for testing of meters shall be set by resolution by the Board of
Trustees.

H.

In any case where an individual, corporation, or business has requested an
appointment for a water meter reading but cannot keep said appointnient for any
reason, 24 hours' advance notice of the cancellation must be provided to the
Department of Public Works. I f no such notice or less than 24 hours' notice is

provided, then the Department may charge a meter reading fee. Said fee shall be
established by resolution of the Board of Tmstees.
I.

The owner or consumer shall notify the Department of any damage to or any cessation
in registration of the meter as soon as it comes to his knowledge.

J.

All new and replacement meter installations must be compatible withthe Village's
current meter reading system and be approved by the Village prior to the installation of
the meter. The location of all meters is subject to approval by the Superintendent ofthe
Department of Public Works or his designated representative.

K.

Any person molesting or tampering or interfering with the proper registration of a meter
or utilizing a bypass around the meter shall be subject to penalties prescribed under § 22313 hereof

L.

All unmetered premises shall have meters installed within 30 days after notification or be
subject to a penalty as provided for in § 223-13 hereof

§ 223-7. Water main extensions.
A.

The Department shall extend water mains only when they are within the corporate limits
of the village and when such extensions will improve the distribution systern. All other
extensions will be installed by the applicant for a water connection, with no expense
to the village, and in accordance with all applicable rules and regulations. The office
of the Village Engineer reserves the right to employ an inspector at the owner's expense
to ensure that installation is in accordance with specifications and regulations goveming
the installation.

B. '

A plan of the proposed water main extensions, showing all hydrants and valves, must
, be submitted to the office of the Village Engineer for approval. This plan must be approved
prior to the installation of the main.

C.

Upon dedication and acceptance by the Board of Tmstees after receiving the Village
Engineer's recommendation, all main extensions within the corporate limits ofthe village
become the responsibility of the Department.

D.

All main extensions installed by a water district outside of the corporate limits of the
village remain the property of that water district. Regardless of who constmcted the main
extension, if the extension services customers located in the village, applicable laws ofthe
village and the mles and regulations of the Water Department shall apply.

E.

The minimum size of main extensions shall be eight inches, unless approved
otherwise.

Y.

When main extensions are proposed on private property, it is the responsibility of the
applicant to procure and deliver to the Village Manager all necessary easement
instruments, maps and descriptions. The applicant will also be required to pay for the
necessary title search of all easements, insurance as to title, when required, and the costs

of recordation.
G.

The applicant shall guarantee the entire installation for a period of 12 months
following the official acceptance of the extension, and shall make all necessary repairs
that might be necessitated during this twelve-month period. In the case of any
emergency where Department personnel perform repair work, the applicant shall
repay the village for said work;

H.

Prior to the acceptance of the extension, the village must be fumished with an asbuilt plan, together with an acceptable maintenance bond in an amount to be
determined by the Village Manager and in a form approved by the Village Attomey.

§ 223-8. Building water charges.
A.

All services, new and old, must have a water meter installed before water service can
be initiated.

B.

Once issued, the owner must assume responsibility for the water meter under all
circumstances, with the exception of mechanical failure. If mechanical failure occurs,
the owner will be held liable if the mechanical failure was precipitated by any extemal
influence on the water meter.

C.

Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a meter and approved reader or
transmitter must be installed and the curb box must be plumb and accessible.

§223-9. Fire sprinklers and charges, hydrants.
A.

Each building containing a sprinkler system shall be charged an installation fee as
set by resolution of the Board of Tmstees.

B.

No person other than one properly authorized to do so under the mles, regulations and
procedures of the Department shall take water from any public or private fire hydrant,
except for fire-fighting and fire-training purposes, without first obtaining a written
permit from the Department. Upon issuing a single-use pennit, the Superintendent of
the Department pf Public Works shall designate the exact hydrant to be used and
stipulate the dates and times within which water may be drawn. A deposit, in an
amount set by resolution of the Board of Tmstees, will be required before such permit
will be issued. In addition to the deposit, a fee in an amount set by resolution of the
Board of Tmstees shall be paid in advance for the estimated quantity of water to be
drawn from the hydrant. After the applicant has withdrawn the water, the deposit will
be retumed to the applicant if, after examination, the hydrant is found not to have
been damaged and is in good working order. If the hydrant is found to have been
damaged, the expense of repairing the hydrant will be deducted from the deposit. If
damage exceeds the amount of deposit, the amount will be assessed in addition to cover
cost of repairs. Permits may be revoked at any time at the discretion of the Department.

C.

Any person opening or operating any public or private hydrant without proper
authorization shall be subject to the penalties under § 223-13 hereof

§ 223-10. Miscellaneous regulations.
A.

Shutoff of water for violation of mles. The water may be shut off to an owner or
consumer failing to comply with this Article and/or the mles and regulations of the
Department adopted in implementation thereof and will not be tumed on again until
satisfactory assurance is given that the chapter and/or mles and regulations will be
complied with and all proper and necessary expense incurred in shutting off and tuming
on of the water is paid in full. If the Department determines that a shutoff is warranted,
the Department will send the owner or consumer notice outlining the outstanding rates and
penalties that are due and notifying him or her that water service will be shut off if all
outstanding charges are not paid within five (5) days of receiving the notice. Within that
five (5) day period, the owner or consumer will be afforded the opportunity to contest the
Department's grounds for the shutoff

B.

Temporary shutoff. Ifthe Water Department determines that service must be temporarily
shut off for any reason, t h e Department w i l l p r o v i d e a f f e c t e d owners
and consumers w i t h at least 24 hours' advance notice, except in emergencies. In
such cases, there shall be a fee for such service, in an amount set by resolution of the Board
of Tmstees.

C.

Emergency shutoff of water." Should it become necessary to shut off the water supply
due to a break in the water main or for other reasons of an emergency nature, the
Department shall have the right to temporarily shut off the water supply for the duration
of the emergency until the repairs are made or the emergency is over without providing
advanced notice to affected consumers; however, the Department will use all reasonable
and practicable measures to notify the consumers in advance of such discontinuation of
service. When an emergency shutoff is required, the Department shall not be liable for
any damage or inconvenience suffered by the consumer as a result ofthe shutoff.

D.

Liability of Village.

E.

(1)

The village (including its employees and agents) shall not be liable for any claim
against it at any time for the intermption of service, lessening of supply,
inadequate pressure, poor quality of water or any other consequences beyond its
control.

(2)

The village (including its employees and agents) shall not be liable for any
damages which may result to an owner or consumer's pipes, appliances, etc., from
the shutting off of water mains or service pipes for any purpose whatever, whether
previous notice has been given or not. No deductions from water bills will be made
for periods when the service is shut off

Cross-cormections. No connection from any other sources of water supply to any system
of piping supplied by the Department shall be made or maintained at any time and all
mles of Section 5-1.3.1 of Part 5 of the New York State Sanitary Code (as it may be
amended or supplemented from time to time) shall apply, with regard to backflow
valves. Consumers having independent or auxiliary systems shall maintain that system
completely independent of the municipal supply at all times. No interconnection of the

water supply of this Department is permitted with any pipe or stmcture which contains
liquids, chemicals, unsafe or otherwise unsatisfactory water or any other contaminating
substances except when such intercormection is installed and protected in a manner
satisfactory to the Department.
F.

Access to property. The Superintendent of the Department of Public Works and all
employees under his jurisdiction shall have free access at reasonable hours to all
parts of every building or place in which meters are located and where water is
or may be delivered or consumed. Employees will carry with them proper identification
denoting their employment by the Department.

G.

Damage caused by breaks. . The Department shall in no event be responsible for
maintenance of or for damage done by water escaping from the service pipe or any
other pipe or fixture on the outlet side of the curb stop. The consumer shall at all
times comply with state and municipal regulations in reference to these pipes and shall
make any change thereon required on account of change of grade, relocation of
mains or otherwise.

H.

Operation of valves. No person other than an employee of the Department shall
operate or close any valves or corporation stops within the system or molest or
interfere with any valve or valve box cover. Any person, other than an employee of
the Department, who operates or closes any valves or corporation stops within the
system, molests or interferes with any valve or valve box cover or otherwise tampers
with the water system of the village shall be subject to the penalties prescribed under
§ 223-13 hereof

I.

Liability of Owner. The owner of the property will in all cases be held liable for all
charges for water supplied to the premises. All charges, penalties and fines shall
become a charge and lien upon the premises where the water was consumed and/or
supplied.

J.

Waste of water. A consumer shall maintain his faucets, toilets and service lines and all
appurtenances in good working order and condition arid free of all leaks at his own
expense iri order to coriserve water. All water that passes through the meter will be
charged to the owner whether the water is legitimately used or wasted through leakage.

K.

Illegal use of water. No person shall use any water from the water system of the
village for any purpose other than that contemplated at the time that the approval for
. a connection was given. No person shall use any water from the water system of the
village for bottling purposes, where the water so bottled is to be sold outside of the
limits of said village, for irrigation purposes, for commercial icemaking or to fill any
pond, pool, lake or other body of water without the permission of the Department.

L.

Service of notice. Service of any notice authorized or directed by or on behalf of the
Water Department may be made upon the owner or consumer personally or by leaving
the same at the premises where water is supplied or by sending the same by mail to
such party at the last address provided.

§223-11. Use of water during emergency.

A.

The Department shall have the right to reserve a sufficient supply, of water at all
times in its reservoir and storage tanks to provide for fire or any other emergencies
and may restrict or regulate the quantity of water used by consumers in case of
scarcity or whenever the public welfare may require it.

B.

Whenever it shall be determined by the Village Manager that a state, of emergency
exists byreason of drought or damage to the public water supply system, or that
there is an insufficient supply of water or that the water supply system is
endangered by any other cause, theri he or she shall be empowered to make it
imlawful to use water from the village water supply system for any or all of the
following uses as determined by the Village Manager. The Village Manager shall
also have the authority to relieve the restrictions when necessary. For time periods
after regular board meetings, the Village Board shall consider the restrictions going
forward:

C.

(1)

Lawn sprinkling and sprinkling of shmbs, flower gardens and vegetable
gardens with a hose or sprinkler.

(2)

The washing of automobiles in any form, with the exception that windshields and
glasses necessary for the proper operation of the vehicle may be washed or
cleansed only.

(3)

The maintenance of water supply lines with bleeds on any dock or stmcture or
in any building for the purpose of maintaining a constant flow to prevent freezing.

(4)

The filling of pools of all sizes and the operation of pools of all sizes not
recirculating water.

(5)

The operation or maintenance of automatic plumbing flush fixtures or apparatus
using a constant or fixed periodic flow. The flow from such apparatus shall only
be by manual operation when the fixture or apparatus is in actual use.

(6)

The cleaning or washing of the outside of buildings or any,stmctures involving the
use of water or steam in any form.

(7)

The use of hoses, spouts and similar pressure-bathing apparatus, and no constant
flow from showers or similar apparatus shall be maintained. Operation of such
apparatus shall ,be manual and only when the apparatus is in actual use.

(8)

Any system of refrigeration or air conditioning having an individual or collective
capacity of six tons or greater, unless it shall be , equipped with a waterconserving device such as an economizer,, evaporative condenser, water-cooling
tower or similar apparatus, which device shall not consume for makeup purposes
in excess of 5% of the consumption that would normally be used without such
device.

In cases of extreme emergency, the Village Manager or his/her designated representative
shall have the power to declare a temporary water emergency and to enact such restrictions
and measures as are reasonably necessary to protect the water supply.

D.

Any person or corporation violating this section shall be subject to the prescribed
penalties under § 223-13 hereof

§ 223-12. Fees, charges and payments, water bills.
A.

All fees, charges and rates, the amount of which is not specifically provided for in
this Article, shall be the rates in force at the time. A schedule of such fees, charges
and rates shall be maintained by the Village Manager and be available for examination
in his office. The Village Manager reserves the right to amend rates from tinie-to-time
by resolution of the Village Board.

B.

The Department will cause each water meter of persons using water from the water
system of ttie village to be read four times per year.

C.

Upon completion of the readings referred to in § 223-12(B), the Village Manager will
cause to be sent to each user of water a stateriient showing the amount, in dollars and
cents, owed to the village and, further, a statement showing the computation thereof

D.

Bills will be rendered quarterly, unless the Village Manager, in his discretion,fixesa
different payment schedule with respect to any owner or consumer.

E.

The Department will mail bills, but delivery of such bills to the proper person is not
guaranteed. If the property owner does not get a bill in the mail the property owner is
still obligated to pay the bill by the due date.

F.

Penalties for nonpayment of charges.
(1)

(2)

The following penalties are prescribed for failure to pay water charges, after the
levy thereof:
(a)

. No penalty shall be assessed if charges are paid by the due date set forth
on the bill.

(b)

If the water charge is not paid by the due date set forth on the bill, a
penalty of 5% of the amount due shall be assessed, and a further
penalty of 1% shall be added for each succeeding month or any portion
thereof in which the water rents are not paid. Thereafter, on the next
succeeding April 15"^, the Village Manager shall cause any said unpaid
water rents and penalties thereon more than 60 days overdue to be
added to the village tax bills. Said water rents and penalties shall
constitute a lien on the real property so affected. Except that late
payments to the Village for the first quarterly bill of . 2017 will not
accme penalties unless remaining unpaid after the due date of the
second bill of 2017.

Partial payments covering a portion of a bill will be accepted, provided that such
, payments shall be applied first to penalties, and the unpaid water charges will

continue to accme penalties at the rate of 1 % per month until paid.
§ 223-13. Penalties for offenses.
Any person, firm or corporation found violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be subject
to the penalties provided iri § 1-12 of Chapter 1, Gerieral Provisions, and, in addition, water
service to violators may be discontinued in accordance with § 223-10(A).
Section 2; This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

On motion of TRUSTEE
seconded by TRUSTEE
,
the following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York:
WHEREAS, the Village Board is considering changing water billing from
biannually to quarterly; and
WHEREAS, to amend the water billing schedule requires the adoption of a
Local Law by the Village Board,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that a Public Hearing is hereby
called for Monday, April 17, 2017 at 8:00PM in the Meeting Room of the
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law Intro 1 of
2017, to amend the Village's water billing from biannually to quarterly.
Date: March 20, 2017

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ^""^^^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on May 1
20IZ
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 202Z
of
vvas duly passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City){Town)(Village) of
:
^
was duly passed by the
.
'
on
. 20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)
on

•

20|

I

I , in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

-_
'

on

of

was duly passed by the
•

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the —
:
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20

.

Such local lawwas submitted to the people byreason o f a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
yote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(specia!)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed afterdisapproval) by the

'

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

'

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and ho valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local.law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having receiveci the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
'.
20
, became operative.
6. (County local lawconcerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No._
,
.
of 20
of
the County of
iState of New Yorl<, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20_
, pursuantto subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe IVlunicipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns oif said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any otherauthorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the onginal on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcnpt therefrom and of the whole of such original localJaw, and was finally adoEted-in-tbejjTanner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
_
5jgrrk of fhe county leg<slaflve body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated Dy4ecal legislative body

(Seal)

'

" ^'V.

Date:

/ K - < ^

^

J

4 ^

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 4 of 4


