---
title: "LL 4-2021: TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUIDSON MODI"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2021-05-24
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 4-2021: TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUIDSON MODI"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2021-05-24
---

Local Law 4-2021
Filed: 2021-05-24
TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUIDSON MODIFYING PROVISIONS RELATING TO SIGNS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Piaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a iocal law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
• C o u n t y D C i t y D T o w n [x]Village
STATt RProRDS
(Select one)

n =„,.

Of Crcton-on-Hudson

MAY 2 4

2m

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
o f t h e year 2021

Local Law No. 04
A local law

TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insed Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON MODIFYING PROVISIONS RELATING TO SIGNS

Be it enacted by the Vf'age Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[x]Village

(Select one)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

{If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 04-2021
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON MODIFYING PROVISIONS
RELATING TO SIGNS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-44.C of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended as follows:
§ 230-44.C Application Process
(1)

Except as provided in Subsection K in connection with temporary signs and in
subsection P(l)(f) in connection with residential yard signs, the Village
Engineer shall receive, review and comment on conformance for all completed
applications to erect, replace, move or modify signs. The Village Engineer shall
then forward applications that are in substantial compliance to the Visual
Environment Board (VEB) within five business days for VEB review and
recommendation on the issuance of a sign permit. The Visual Enviromnent Board's
opinion shall be rendered to the Village Engineer and/or Planning Board within 21
days of receipt of said application. If the signage is part ofan application for a site
plan approval or a change of use approval, the Planning Board's decision on the site
plan shall include its decision on the proposed signage.

Section Two. Secfion 230-44.K Temporary Signs of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
is hereby amended as follows:
§ 230-44.K Temporary Signs
(1)

Temporary signs are those which are displayed for short periods of time. Unless
specified otherwise below, all temporary signs shall be limited in usage to a
maximum of 45 days. Signs shall not be considered temporary if they are
effectively displayed on an ongoing basis, interrupted by short intervals when
they are not displayed.

(2)

Temporary signs do not require a signage permit and shall be restricted as
applicable as set forth below:

(a) "For Sale," "For Rent" or "Sold" signs. No more than two temporary signs,
not exceeding six square feet in area each, are allowed for a single lot. One
temporary sign, 16 square feet in area, is permitted for each real estate
subdivision, set back at least 15 feet from the street line upon which the
property is located. This signage usage shall be allowed beyond 45 days.

(b) Temporary construction signs. The architect, engineer and contractors shall
each be allowed one sign not exceeding six square feet in area. Such signs
shall be permitted during the entire course of construction but shall be
removed at the end of construction.
(c) Temporary signs pertaining to elecfion campaigns. Such signs shall not be
subject to the forty-five-day limitation in Subsection K(l) above but shall be
removed within 10 days after the election day.
(d) Temporary signs pertaining to garage sales, tag sales or other business
activities which have a duration of seven calendar days or less.
(e) Temporary signs pertaining to events of civic, philanthropic, educafional or
religious institutions shall not be subject to the size limitation contained in
Subsection K(4).
(3)

Except as provided in Subsections K(2)(a) through (e), temporary signs shall not
exceed 16 square feet in area and shall not be illuminated.

(4)

Temporary signs shall not have an adhesive backing and must be easily
removable without residual markings.

(5)

Temporary signs must also conform to all of the other provisions of this chapter,
except with respect to being of a professional quality as required in Subsection H
above.

Section Three. Section 230-44.P(l) ofthe Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to add new subsecfion (f) as follows:
(f)

On lots used for residential purposes, up to three non-illuminated residential
yard signs not exceeding six square feet each, and no higher than 42 inches
above the existing ground surface shall be permitted. Residential yard signs
must also conform to all of the other provisions of this chapter, except with
respect to being of a professional quality as required in Subsection H above.

Section Four. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Five. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Secfion 27 of the Municipai Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strikeout that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
pn May 17

20£]

of 2Qf2
of
v^,as duly passed by the
, in accordance with the appiicable

(Name of Legislative Body)

provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
^
was duly passed by the
on
20__ _ , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20[

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local iaw No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

^

„
on

20

, of

was duly passed by the

. 3nd was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

(Elective Chief Execufive Officer*)

Such local \awwas submitted to the people by reason ofa (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20
4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No,

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a tow/n where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on.
.
.
20__
became operative.

6. (County locai law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the locai law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified eiectors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority ofthe
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and ofthe whole of such original local law, and was finally adoptedJn4he-n-raf^ner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
Cierk of the^unty
officgp-^signated

(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

leQ(felati;fe body, City, Town orVjllage Clerk pr
byiaeal legis^tive body
P^Uf^E
t>i
'S/^^7~^

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On mofion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh, the following resolufion was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the
following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye,
Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
Resolufion #65-2021
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Secfion 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning Chapter of
the Village Code to modify provisions related to signage in the residential zoning districts of the
Village; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 3 of
2021 which has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS, the draft law has been reviewed by the Village Planning Board, Westchester
County Planning Board and Waterfront Advisory Committee as required by law; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing on Loeal Law Introductory No. 3 of 2021 was opened and closed
on May 17, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2021 to amend Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning Chapter of
the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to modify provisions related to signage in the
residential zoning districts of the Viilage, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 4 of
2021.

Dated: May 17,2021
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy ofan original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on May 17^'^ ,2021.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village this 19^'^ day of May 2021.


