---
title: "LL 4-2020: TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON CHAPTER 230 ZONING TO MODIF"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2020-03-09
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 4-2020: TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON CHAPTER 230 ZONING TO MODIF"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2020-03-09
---

Local Law 4-2020
Filed: 2020-03-09
TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON CHAPTER 230 ZONING TO MODIFY CERTAIN PROVISIONS FOR THE MUNICIPAL WAY GATEWAY OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Piaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www, dos, state, ny, us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

•County •City

QTown

RILED
STATE RECORDS

lX|Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

MARft9 ZOZO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
of the year 2020

Local Law No. 4

A local law """^ -^"^^ND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 230
(Insert Title)

ZONING TO MODIFY CERTAIN PROVISIONS FOR THE MUNICIPAL WAY GATEWAY
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Tmstees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

nTown

iXlVillage

fSefec; one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-M (Rev, 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

Local Law 4 ofthe Year 2020

A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON,
CHAPTER 230 ZONING TO MODIFY CERTAIN PROVISIONS FOR THE MUNICIPAL
WAY GATEWAY OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1. Section 230-20.3B. Special Permit Uses in the Gateway Areas shall be amended by
adding new subsection 230-20.3B(4) to read as follows:
(4) In the Municipal Place Gateway District area, on any lot in the C-2 District having frontage
on Municipal Place, adjacent to a residential zoning district and having less than 3 acres,
attached single-family homes, multi-family residential buildings and mixed occupancy buildings
shall be permitted by special permit of the Village Board of Trustees, subject to the following
requirements and criteria and to the requirements/criteria contained in Article X of this Chapter:
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter to the contrary, "mixed
occupancy" permitted under this section shall mean a combination in one building of
residential dwelling units and other permitted and/or special permit uses provided,
however:
[1] Non-residential uses must be located on the first floor.
[2] There shall be no restrictions on the amount of non-residential space on the first
floor.
(b) Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 230-20.4 or any other provisions of this
Chapter to the contrary, the following area and bulk regulations shall apply to a
development of attached single-family homes, multi-family residential and mixed
occupancy buildings permitted under this section. To the extent that contrary area/bulk
regulations are not specified in this subsection, they shall be as otherwise provided in
this Code:
[I] Maximum floor area ratio (FAR) shall be 0.5.
[2] Maximum height shall be 35 feet/3 stories.
[3] The minimum front yard setback shall be 20 feet. The maximum front yard
setback shall be 25 feet.
[4] On the property located at 41-51 Maple Avenue and known as Sheet 72.12,
Block 3, Lot 3, there shall be a minimum 50 foot setback from adjacent residential
properties on Wells Avenue and Beekman Avenue, which shall remain vegetated.
[5] The property should have only one curb cut, not located on Municipal Place,
and located as far from the Municipal Place intersection as practicable.
(c) Open Space. Ten percent of the total area of the site shall be used to create a publicly
accessible open space located adjacent to and connected to Municipal Place, provided

however that the Village Board of Trustees shall have the discretion as part of its
special permit review to reduce the area of such open space provided the Village Board
determines other public benefits have been provided as part of the development or
design ofthe open space. Design of the public space shall include at least the following
elements, and shall be evaluated by the Planning Board as part of site plan review:
[1] Paths and benches that connect the site to the street, adjacent sidewalks, and
adjacent crosswalks on Municipal Place.
[2] Design improvements to establish a gateway to the area such as enhanced
lighting, landscaping, and gateway signage.
(d) Parking and Traffic.
[ 1 ] Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, for residential
or mixed occupancy buildings permitted under this section, there shall be provided
at least the following amount of parking for each residential dwelling unit: one
parking space for each studio or one bedroom unit and two spaces for each unit
with two or more bedrooms. The Village Board of Trustees, as part of its special
permit determination, shall have the authority to increase these parking
requirements. The Village Board of Trustees shall consider and make a finding as
to whether the above-stated parking requirements are adequate or will be increased
based upon the following factors:
[a] The mix of uses proposed to be conducted in the various spaces in the
building, considering, among other things, the extent to which their parking
demands are likely to overlap.
[b] Whether the applicant is willing to limit areas of the building to only
certain uses.
[c] The square footage of each of the proposed residential and commercial
units in the building.
[d] Such other factors as the Board may deem relevant on a case-by-case
basis.
[2] The Board shall have the authority to require applicant(s) to provide and/or pay
for a professional parking and traffic impact study.
Section 2. Section 230-20.4 Area and bulk regulations for the Gateway Overlay Districts shall be
amended to read as follows:
§230-20.4 Area and bulk regulations.
A. Maximum allowable floor area ratio. With the exception of mixed-use development in the
Harmon/South Riverside area and multi-family or mixed occupancy development
permitted in the Municipal Place Gateway area as permitted in Section 230-20.3B(4)
above, the maximum floor area ratio (FAR) standards that shall be adhered to for new
development shall be the FAR listed for the underlying zone or the following, whichever
is more restrictive:
(1) For single-use properties, that is, a property proposed for only one principal
permitted use: 0.35.

(2) For multi-use properties, including combinations of retail and office, retail and
residential uses or office and residential: 0.40.
B. Maximum building square footage. With the exception of lots within the C-2 Zoning
District in the Municipal Place Gateway area fronting on Municipal Place, the maximum
permissible square footage for any single building shall not exceed 20,000 square feet. This
requirement is imposed in order to encourage a compact urban design of the gateway.
C. Maximum permitted square footage for any single commercial use. With the exception of
lots within the C-2 Zoning District in the Municipal Place Gateway fronting on Municipal
Place, the maximum permissible square footage for any single commercial use by any
single occupant or tenant shall not exceed 8,000 square feet of gross floor area.
D. Maximum height. Maximum height shall be as permitted for the underlying zone as
provided elsewhere in this Chapter, except for the following:
(1) Maximum height for mixed use development in the Harmon/South Riverside
Gateway area shall be 3 stories and 35 feet, Provided, however, the third story
must be constructed within the roofline of the building, as set forth in §23020.3B(3) above.
(2) Maximum height for buildings within the C-2 Zoning District in the Municipal
Place Gateway area on lots fronting on Municipal Place shall be 3 stories and
35 feet.
Section 3. Section 230-20.5 Design Guidelines for the Gateway Overlay Districts, subsection F
Building Orientation shall be amended to read as follows:
F.
In order to discourage parking lots in front of buildings, except where development
of single family attached homes is proposed, new buildings shall be oriented with the building
front facing the street and situated close to the front property line to create a more continuous
street wall.
Section 4. Section 230-42.IG under Mixed Occupancy shall be amended to read as follows:
G.
The provisions of this Section 230-42.1 shall not apply to properties located in the
Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay area which are permitted as set forth in Section 23020.38(3) and defined as "mixed use" therein, or to mixed occupancy buildings permitted in the
Municipal Place Gateway Overlay area as permitted in Section 230-20.3B(4).
Section 5. Chapter 230 Attachment 4 (also referred to as D), Special Pennit Schedule, under
Commercial Zoning Districts, is amended to add attached single-family homes and mulit-family
as special permit uses in Commercial Zoning Districts pursuant to Code Section 230-20.3 and
under the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees.
Section 6.
If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section. Article or part of this Local Law shall
be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect,
impair or invalidate the remainder of this Local Law, nor the remainder of any clause, sentence,

paragraph, section, Article or part hereof.
Section 7.
State.

This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No, ^^^^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on l^^rch 02
20^2
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^2
of
^ a s duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local \a\N annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20_
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. arid was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

_20

,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason ofa (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (generai)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law,

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20,^

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of —
20

.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes ttie chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances,

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote o f a majority ofthe qualified electors ofsuch city voting
thereon at the (special)(generai) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
., pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative,

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original iocal law, and was finallyadopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
^
.^''P)''^
^

J

Cjerk of th;e^poutjty legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
.'•officer designatea by local legislative body
fj^ijiu
^ \
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev, 06/12)

Date:^'

3

U?^

A

ZQl^CP

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with the following vote; 4-1, Trustee Horowitz voting nay.
RESOLUTION FOR ADOPTION OF LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 9
OF THE YEAR 2019 (revised) TO AMEND THE CODE OF TFIE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 230 ZONING TO MODIFY CERTAIN
PROVISIONS FOR THE MUNICIPAL PLACE GATEWAY OVERLAY ZONING
DISTRICT
Resolution #30-2020
WHEREAS, in 2018 the Village Board formed a working group to develop a land use plan
and potential zoning amendments for the adjacent commercial areas of North Riverside
neighborhood and the Municipal Place Gateway to examine ways to support appropriate
residential development and commercial opportunities to promote long term stability; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board solicited proposals from planning firms to assist the
working group in undertaking its work and on November 5, 2018 the Village Board
retained BFJ Planning to provide such services, including attending working group
meetings, conducting public workshops, and preparing a fmal report whh the
recommendations of the working group; and
WHEREAS, the fmal Municipal Place Gateway and North Riverside Neighborhood
Zoning Study (the "Study") was issued by BFJ Planning in October 2019 after review by
the Village Board, which study was proposed as an amendment to the 2017 Comprehensive
Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Study recommended amendments to the existing C-2 and Municipal Place
Gateway Overlay District zoning for 3 properties comprised of the Village owned "Katz"
property at 41-51 Maple Street ("Katz Property"), the Croton Commons shopping center
at 171-187 Maple Street ("Croton Commons"), and the Croton Auto Park property at 1
Municipal Place ("Croton Auto Park") as three important properties in the area with
frontage along Municipal Place; and
WHEREAS, the amendments recommended for all three properties include retaining the
existing maximum height of 35 feet but to allow three stories, and also to eliminate the
restrictions on building size and tenancy; and

WHEREAS, for the Katz Property the Study also recommended modifying the provision
for mixed use buildings to eliminate the limit on ground floor retail and to allow for an all
residential building or townhomes, all with a maximum FAR of 0.8, provided park space
is provided at the comer of Municipal Place and Maple Street, a 50' vegetated buffer is
provided to residential properties on Wells Avenue, and certain design guidelines are
adhered to; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board thereafter directed the preparation of Local Laws
incorporating the recommendations of the Study, together with a full EAF Part 1 with
Addendum and a Coastal Assessment Form, both for the Proposed Action, including
adoption ofthe Municipal Place and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning Study as an
Amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, together with Local Law Introductory No. 9 of
2019 and Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2019; and
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019 the Village Board declared itself to be Lead Agency
under SEQRA, and circulated the proposed Local Law, Full EAF, CAF and Study to
various interested agencies including the Village Planning Board, the Westchester County
Planning Board and the Village Waterfront Advisory Committee; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing on November 6, 2019 which was
continued to November 18, 2019 and closed; and
WEHREAS, on November 1, 2019 the Village Board received a favorable letter from the
Westchester County Planning Board and on November 20, 2019 received a memo from the
Planning Board with comments; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board discussed comments received at the public hearing as well
as comments received from the Planning Board at subsequent work sessions and requested
that BFJ Planning provide further information and review regarding some of the comments
and issues raised; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board carefully considered the comments from the public and the
Plarming Board and the additional information provided by BFJ Planning and directed
revisions be made to Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 to require the vegetated buffer
for the Katz Property to extend to the area adjacent to the residential properties on Beekman
Avenue and to reduce the maximum FAR for residential and mixed occupancy buildings
on the Katz Property to 0.5 and to modify the language relating to the public park area to
recognize the potential for other public benefits, as well as incorporating the changes into
other portions of the Code as highlighted by the Planning Board; and
-2-

WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of
the Year 2019 (revised) on February 3, 2020; and
WHEREAS, after discussion at its February 18, 2020 meeting the Village Board has
adopted a Negative Declaration in connection with the Proposed Action and determined
the Proposed Action is consistent with the policies and conditions set forth in the Local
Waterfront Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has adopted the Study as an amendment to the Village's
Comprehensive Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has considered all comments received both verbally and in
writing as part of the public hearing and throughout this process, together with all other
documents and correspondence which are a part of the record on this matter,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
The Village Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby Adopts Local Law
Introductor)^ No. 9 of The Year 2019 (revised) to Amend the Code of the Village of
Croton-On-Hudson, Chapter 230 Zoning to Modify Certain Provisions for the Municipal
Place Gateway Overlay Zoning District.
Date: March 2, 2020
State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I , Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State o f N e w York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of
an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board
of Trustees of said Village held on March 2^^ 2020.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
the said Village this 05^^ day of March 2020.

yillage C l e i ^ _ J

tSeal)
-3-


