---
title: "LL 4-2025: AUTHORIZING PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLIISHED IN GENERAL MUN"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2025-03-12
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 4-2025: AUTHORIZING PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLIISHED IN GENERAL MUN"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-03-12
---

Local Law 4-2025
Filed: 2025-03-12
AUTHORIZING PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLIISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW 3-C

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Local Law Filing

w^SI^gl

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

FILED
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated^pd-XjarwUj^e
italics or underiining to indicate new matter.
STATE RECUHUo
•County

DCity

nTown

E]Vlllage

U A D 1 7 9n?S

(Selectone:)

MAK

1 ^

^^^'^

of Croton-on-Hudson

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Local Law No.

04

of the year 2025

A local law AUTHORIZING PROPERTYTAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT
(Insert Title)

ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW§3-C

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

GCity

GTown

|X|Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l <Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 Of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
L O C A L LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 1 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE L I M I T
ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW §3-C
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1. Legislative Intent
It is the intent of this local law to allow the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to adopt a budget for the
fiscal year commencing June I , 2025, that requires a real property tax levy in excess of the "tax
levy limit" as defined by General Mimicipal Law § 3-c.
Section 2. Authority
This local law is adopted pursuant to subdivision 5 of General Municipal Law §3-c, which
expressly authorizes a local government's goveming body to override the property tax cap for the
comingfiscalyear by the adoption of a local law approved by a vote of sixty percent (60%) of said
governing body.
Section 3. Tax Levy Limit Override
The Board of Tmstees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester, is hereby
authorized to adopt a budget for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2025, that requires a real
property tax levy in excess ofthe amount otherwise prescribed in General Municipal Law §3-c.
Section 4. Severability
If a court determines that any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this local law or
the application thereof to any person, firm or corporation, or circumstance is invalid or
imconstitutional, the court's order or judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder
of this local law, but shall be confined in its operation to liie clause, sentence, paragraph,
subdivision, or part of this local law or in its application to the person, individual, firm or
corporation or circumstance, directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment or order
shall be rendered.
Section 5. Effective date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 9^
the (County)(Clty)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on February 26
2025
(Name ofLegislative Body)

,

of 2o25
of
was duly passed by the
accordance with the applicable

provisions of law.
2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(Clty)(Town)(Village) of
,
was duly passed by the
.
on
20
, and was (approved)(not appnaved)
fName of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disappro^
disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20|

I I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the peopte by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vole of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to pemiissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes tho chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
_ having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20„.^
, pursuantto subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on fiie in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
jClerk ofthe coilritv l^qfel^ivfe^body. Citv. Town or Villacie Clerk.or
/officerdesignated-t^yiocaUegislative bodv /^^c.^^
r^
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

„

Page •* of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of tiie Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0
vote.
Resolution #25-2025
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Govemor enacted legislation that establishes a "property
tax cap" on the amount that a local government's property tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS, imder this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes charged on the
municipality's taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at 2% or tiie rate of inflation,
whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for locai governments to override the cap to protect the
Village from unforeseenfinancialcircumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event that an override is necessary, the law
enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2025 has been drafted to override the "property tax
cap" law enacted by State Legislature if necessary; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on February 26, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: tiiat tiie Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 1 of 2025 to override the "property tax cap" law enacted by the State
Legislature, if necessary, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 4 of 2025.
Dated: February 26, 2025
i t ! * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the armexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on the 26^'' of February 2025.
IN WITNESS W H E R ^ F , I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this27*da5'#Tebruary^5.


