---
title: "LL 4-2019: TO AMEND THE STREETS & SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2019-03-08
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 4-2019: TO AMEND THE STREETS & SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-03-08
---

Local Law 4-2019
Filed: 2019-03-08
TO AMEND THE STREETS & SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, CHAPTER 197, TO MODIFY THE EXISTING STREET TREE SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM AND ADD A NEW ARTICLE FOR GENERAL SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commerciat Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underiining to indicate new matter.
^ . . _ _^

r I LcD
•County

QCity

nTown

^Village

STATE R E C M D S

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

MAR 0 8 2019

DEPARTMEWT OF STATi
Local Law No. 04
A local law

of the year 20^9

TO AMEND THE STREETS & SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE CODE
(Insert Title)

OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 197, TO MODIFY THE
EXISTING STREET TREE SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM AND ADD A
NEW ARTICLE FOR GENERAL SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Be it enacted by the VHlage Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[XlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 4-2019
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE STREETS & SIDEWALKS CHAPTER OF THE CODE
OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 197, TO MODIFY THE
EXISTING STREET TREE SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM AND ADD A
NEW ARTICLE FOR GENERAL SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 197-33 of Chapter 197, Streets and Sidewalks, of the Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 197-33 Administration.
Any owner of real property within the Village whose real property abuts on any public street
may be eligible for the following sidewalk replacement program hereby established:
A. If the sidewalk is in need of repair or replacement, the owner of said property may
make application to the Village requesting that the sidewalk be repaired or replaced. A
fee for the filing of said application may be established by resolution of the Village
Board of Trustees and placed in the fee schedule. Applications will be processed and
acted upon at the sole discretion of the Village.
B. The Superintendent of Public Works, or his designee, will visit the site to determine if
a Village street tree has contributed to the cause of the damaged sidewalk. Upon his
determination, the Village will authorize and pay for the removal of the street tree.
C. The Village will pay 50% of the actual contract cost for the removal and replacement
of sidewalks to property owners who apply during the period of October 1, 2015, to
May 31, 2019 of the sidewalk replacement program, including materials and labor for
the repairs and reconstruction. Beginning on June 1, 2019, the Village will pay forty
percent (40%) of the actual cost for the removal and replacement of sidewalks to
property owners who apply during the period of June 1, 2019, to May 31, 2020. The
prevailing rate established by the Village will be used in determining the total cost of
the improvements.
D. The Village Engineer or the Superintendent of Public Works shall determine the
nature and extent of sidewalk repairs qualifying for reimbursement under this
program. After review ofthe application by the Village Engineer and the
determination of repairs qualifying for reimbursement, the Village Engineer will
notify the applicant, in writing, ofthe contribution to be made by the property owner.
After receipt of the property owner's share ofthe cost of the work, all repairs and
reconstruction will be scheduled and performed by the Department of Public Works or

its designated agent. All work shall be subject to inspection by the Village Engineer or
his designee during construction, and must be approved by the Village Engineer.
E. The Village encourages pooling of neighborhoods interested in repairing or replacing
their sidewalks. The deadline date for pooling is March 31 of each year.
F. The Village will provide funding only to the extent that Village funds for the sidewalk
improvement program are available, and such availability will be at the sole discretion
ofthe Board of Trustees. Failure of the Board of Trustees to budget funds for repair of
sidewalks shall in no way excuse any property owner from properly maintaining,
repairing, constructing or replacing sidewalks in accordance with Article IV of
Chapter 197 of the Croton-on-Hudson Village Code.
G. After the period of the sidewalk improvement program set forth above has elapsed, all
property owners who have not applied for participation in the program whose real
property abuts on any public street shall be responsible for undertaking all repairs or
improvements at their own expense without any Village subsidy in accordance with
the provisions of § 197-24 of the Village Code and further the Village will carry out
its responsibilities in accordance with §§ 197-25, 197-26 and 197-27 of the Village
Code.

Section Two. Chapter 197 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to
add new Article VIII, General Sidewalk Improvement Program, as follows:
Article VIII
General Sidewalk Improvement Program
§ 197-35 Purpose,
The Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby determines that many
sidewalks located within the Village are in need of significant repair. The Board of
Trustees also recognizes that the repair of sidewalks can be costly and that it imposes a
difficult economic hardship on the homeowner to keep the sidewalks in good repair. The
Board of Trustees has determined that it is in the best interests of the Village to have
properly maintained sidewalks and, therefore, has decided to assist residents in maintaining
the sidewalks to the extent outlined within this Local Law.
§ 197-36 Administration.
Any owner of real property within the Village whose real property abuts on any public
street may be eligible for the following sidewalk replacement program hereby established:
A. If the sidewalk is in need of repair or replacement, the owner of said property may
make application to the Village requesting that the sidewalk be repaired or replaced. A
fee for the filing of said application may be established by resolution of the Village

Board of Trustees and placed in the fee schedule. Applications will be processed and
acted upon at the sole discretion of the Village.
B. The Village will pay forty percent (40%) ofthe actual cost for the removal and
replacement of sidewalks to residents who apply during the period from June 1, 2019 to
May 31, 2022. These costs shall include materials and labor for the repairs and
reconstruction. The prevailing rate established by the Village will be used in
determining the total cost of the improvements.
C. The Village Engineer or the Superintendent of Public Works shall detennine the nature
and extent of sidewalk repairs qualifying for reimbursement under this program. After
review of the application by the Village Engineer and the determination of repairs
qualifying for reimbursement, the Village Engineer will notify the applicant in writing
ofthe contribution to be made by the property owner. After receipt ofthe property
owner's share of the cost of the work, all repairs and reconstruction will be scheduled
and performed by the Department of Public Works or its designated agent. All work
shall be subject to inspection by the Village Engineer, or his designee, during
construction and must be approved by the Village Engineer once completed.
D. The Village encourages pooling of neighborhoods interested in repairing or replacing
their sidewalks. The deadline for pooling shall be March 31 of each year.
E. The Village will provide funding only to the extent that Village fimds for the sidewalk
improvement program are available. Such availability shall be determined at the sole
discretion ofthe Board of Trustees. Failure ofthe Board of Trustees to budget funds for
repair of sidewalks shall in no way excuse any property owner from properly
maintaining, repairing, constructing or replacing sidewalks in accordance with Article
IV of Chapter 197 of the Croton-on-Hudson Village Code.
F. After the three (3) year period ofthe sidewalk improvement program has elapsed, all
property owners who have not applied for participation in the program whose real
property abuts on any public street shall be responsible for undertaking all repairs or
improvements at their own expense without any Village subsidy in accordance with the
provisions of Section 197-24 ofthe Village Code. Further to this, the Village shall carry
out its responsibilities in accordance with Sections 197-25, 197-26 and 197-27 of the
Village Code.
G. Any owner who no longer has a physical sidewalk on their property, but can document
that such a sidewalk previously existed may also be eligible to make application under
this program based upon the feasibility of re-establishing such sidewalk at the
discretion ofthe Village Engineer and Superintendent of Public Works.
§ 197-37 Liability.
In the event that personal injury or property damage shall result from the failure of any
owner or occupant to comply with the provisions of Section 197-15 and Section 197-24 of

the Village Code requiring maintenance, repair and snow and ice removal, the owner or
occupant shall be liable to all persons injured, or whose property is damaged directly, or
indirectly, and shall be liable to the Village to the extent that said Village is required by law
or by any court to respond in damages to any injured party.
Section Three. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity ofthe remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Four. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify tfiat the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. '^"^'^
the (County)(City)(Town){Viliage) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on ^arch 4
2022
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^^
of
^^as ^uiy passed by the
. 'n accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No,
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20|

I

I, in accordance w Ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I Iiereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

I and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) bythe

on

20_

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if ttiere
be none, the chairperson of the county iegislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l {Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
„ _ _ _ _ having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the {special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that 1 have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finalli;,adopt5dirKl;ie manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerkoiiby local legislative body
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l {Rev. 06/12)

Date:

^ /

^

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE (2y^\\fgA\v ^ seconded by TRUSTEE "S^^yx^^^T^^ss,
the following resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees
of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a vote of 5-0.
Resolution #32-2019
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 197 ofthe Village
Code, Streets and Sidewalks, to revise the existing sidewalk improvement
program and establish a general sidewalk improvement program for the
Village; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2019 has been drafted to
amend Chapter 197 of the Village Code, Streets and Sidewalks; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on March 4, 2019,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of
Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2019 amending
Chapter 197 ofthe Village Code, Streets and Sidewalks, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law 4 of 2019.
Dated: March 4, 2019
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester )
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the armexed resolution is a copy of
an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board
of Trustees of said Village held on the 4^'^ of March 2019.
JN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
the said Village this 5^^ day of March 2019.

Village Clerk L J
(Seal)


