---
title: "LL 5-2022: TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, ZONING, TO ADD PROVISIONS RELATED TO C"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2022-05-23
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 5-2022: TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, ZONING, TO ADD PROVISIONS RELATED TO C"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-05-23
---

Local Law 5-2022
Filed: 2022-05-23
TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, ZONING, TO ADD PROVISIONS RELATED TO CANNABIS SHOPS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
wwAA/.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

( U s e this form to file a local law with the S e c r e t a r y of State.)
Text of law should be given as a m e n d e d . Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
riLbi'
STATF. ReCORD^
•County

GCity

GTown

^Village

(Selectone:)

2,0

ZOZZ

of Croton-on-Hudson
" DEPARTMENT OF S * w i t

Local L a w No.

05

of the y e a r 2022

A local law *° ^"^^i^d Chapter 230 of the Viliage Code, Zoning, to add provisions related to cannabis
(Insert Title)

shops

Be it e n a c t e d by t h e Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Naive of Legislative Body)

•County

GCity

GTown

|X|Village

(Se/ec( one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12}

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 5 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, ZONING, TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO
CANNABIS SHOPS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as foUows:
Section One. Section 230-4 ofthe Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to include the following.
CANNABIS SHOP
A retail outlet selling or distributing any cannabis product, the sale of which requires a license
under the provisions of Section 7-A, Cannabis, of the Consolidated Laws of the State ofNew
York.
Section Two. Section 230-16 of the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to read as follows:
§ 230-16 Central Commercial C-l District.
A.

Permitted uses. In a Commercial C-l District, no building or premises shall be used and no
building or part of building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be
used, in whole or in part, for any purpose, except the following:
(1) Retail stores and banks, except that no carmabis shop, or vape or tobacco shop shall be
permitted within 500 feet ofthe property line ofthe Pierre Van Cortlandt Middle
School and Croton-Harmon High School and may not be located within 500 feet of any
other cannabis shop, or vape or tobacco shop.

Section Three. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Four. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by iocal legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as iocal law No. zz.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Nsme of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

on

16

of 20£2_
ol
passed by the

y^ag

20^

, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
2 0 _ _ _ , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive OfTicer*)
on

2o|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved){not approved)

(Natne of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20_

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

i hereby certify that the local taw annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto tocal laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36}(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the {speciai)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adpptedTn the~fTTanner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
ClerK^the cQdnty.^gislative body, City, Town orVillaqe Clerk or
offrtSer designatecCbyjiscal legislative body ^^j^fVoU-iZc. 1>) S^S^T^-^^
(Seat)

-f

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0
vote.
Resolution #66-2022
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 230 ofthe Village Code, Zoning, to add
provisions related to cannabis shops, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is considering the adoption ofLocal Law Introductory
No. 5 of 2022, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on April 18, 2022, a Public Hearing was opened and closed, and
WHEREAS on May 3, 2022, the Village Board conducted its LWRP Consistency Review and
completed the SEQRA EAF Part II, and
WHEREAS on May 16, 2022, the Village Board adopted a resolution of consistency with the
LWRP and a Negative Declaration in accordance with SEQRA,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 5 of 2022 to amend Chapter 230 of the Village Code, Zoning, to add
provisions related to cannabis shops, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 5 of 2022.
Dated; May 16, 2022
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

H i * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I , Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State ofNew York, do hereby certity that the aimexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on the 16^^ of May 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village this 19*'' day of May 2022.


