---
title: "LL 5-2002: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2002-06-10
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 5-2002: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2002-06-10
---

Local Law 5-2002
Filed: 2002-06-10


NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing
Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 5 of the year 2002

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

3
F'Lf D
10 2002

A local law amending Section 70 of the Village Code - Alarm Systems

<^ STATE P.BCGPi
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. § 70-4 (B) is changed to Section 70-4(C) and Section 70-4(B) is hereby added to read
as follows:
Such permit shall be renewed on an aimual basis starting in January of each year and
ending in December ofthe same year. All applications and renewals shall require
certification, by an alarm agent licensed by the licensing authority, that the device or
system of devices is in good working order and meets all applicable code
requirements within (12) months prior to the application or renewal.
Section 2. § 70-15 Charges is hereby amended to read as follows.
Any owner or lessee of property having an alarm device or system of devices on
such premises and any user of services or equipment fumished by a licensee under
this chapter shall pay to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson a charge for each and
every false alarm occurring in any calendar year beginning with January 1, 2003.
Section 3. Local Law shall be effective on January 1, 2003.

(Complete the certiflcation in the paragraph that applies to the fliing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20P-?of the (m\m^)((^)(:Smii)(Winage) of —-Cr^itOJl-On-biUCiSDn
was duly passed by the
..-Boar£l--Of--Tr-U5teas
on—bJ-ZQ.
20-0.2, in accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.
(Name ofLegislative

Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20 - - , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive

and was deemed duly adopted on

20— ,

Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective ChiefExecutive

on-

- 20— . Such local law was submitted

Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote o f a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20—- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and flnal adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
-- was duly passed by the
on 20-— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive

on

2 0 - - - . Such local law was subject to

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

20.--- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer ofa county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor ofa city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of
—
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19-—,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceraing adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
ofthe County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Mumcipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the quahfied electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certlflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was fii^Hy a4opted in the manner indicated in p a r a g r a p h — a b o v e .
tym>X%¥M^^)mmi^^^
or ofOcer designated by I I K ^ legislative body

(Seal)

Date:

Village Clerk

^ 1 ^ 2.

(Certiflcatlon to be executed by County Attoraey, Corporation Counsel, Town Attoraey, Village Attorney or
other authorized attoraey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

^'T-iTYOF

WESTCHESTER

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law-annexed hereto.

Signature

V i l l a g e Attorney
Title

CSounty
r
Village
Date:
(3)

Croton on Hudson


