---
title: "LL 5-2024: TO AMEND PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2024-03-08
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 5-2024: TO AMEND PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-03-08
---

Local Law 5-2024
Filed: 2024-03-08
TO AMEND PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON CONCERNING THE PROVISION OF SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND BATTERY ENERGY STORANGE SYSTEMS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ n r p / / f^w F i l i n n

Albany, NY 122310001

LCJOd/ L d W r i U n y

www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
•County DCity DTown ^Village
STATE REC0F3r>s
(Select one:)

MAR 0 ^ 2024

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.

05

of the year 2024

A local law '^^ AMEND PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)

— —

CROTON-ON-HUDSON CONCERNING THE PROVISION OF SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
AND BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

DCity

DTown

[XlVillage

(Selectone:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12}

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW 05 of 2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AlVlEND PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230 OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON CONCERNING THE PROVISION OF SOLAR
ENERGY SYSTEMS AND BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-4, Terms defined, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to add the following defmitions:
BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM
One or more devices, assembled together, capable of storing energy in order to supply electrical
energy at a future time (not to include a stand-alone 12-volt car battery or an electric motor
vehicle). A battery energy storage system is classified as a Tier 1 or Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage
System as follows:
A. Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity less than
or equal to 200kWh and, i f in a room or enclosed area, consist of only a single
energy storage system technology.
B. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems have an aggregate energy capacity greater
than 200kWh or are comprised of more than one storage battery technology in a
room or enclosed area.
CANOPY
A permanent structure or architectural projection of rigid construction over which a covering is
attached that provides weather protection, identity or decoration. A canopy is permitted to be
structurally independent or supported by attachment to a building on one or more sides.
FACILITY AREA
The cumulative land area occupied during the commercial operation of the solar energy generating
facility. This shall include all areas and equipment within the facility's perimeter boimdary including the solar energy system, onsite interconnection equipment, onsite electrical energy
storage equipment, and any other associated equipment - as well as any site improvements beyond
the facility's perimeter boundary such as access roads, permanent parking areas, or other
permanent improvements. The facility area shali not include site improvements established for
impact mitigation purposes, including but not limited to vegetative buffers and landscaping
features.
KILOWATT (kW)
A unit of power equal to 1,000 watts. The Nameplate Capacity of residential and commercial solar
energy systems may be described in terms of kW.

MEGAWATT (MW)
A unit of power equal to 1,000 Kw. The Nameplate Capacity of larger solar energy systems may
be described in terms of MW.
NAMEPLATE CAPACITY
A solar energy system's maximum electric power output under optimal operating conditions.
Nameplate Capacity may be expressed in terms of Alternating Current (AC) or Direct Current
(DC).
NATIVE PERENNIAL VEGETATION
Native wildflowers, forbs, and grasses that serve as habitat, forage, and migratory way stations for
pollinators and shall not include any prohibited or regulated invasive species as determined by the
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.

Section Two. Section 230-4, Terms defined, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to modify the foUowing definitions as follows (see strike-through for
deleted text and underline for added text):
GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
A solar energy system that is anchored to the ground via a pole, ballast system or other mounting
system, detached from any other structure, that generates electricity for on-site or off-site
consumption.
ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
A solar energy system located on the roof of any legally permitted building or structure, including
those attached by a ballast system, that produces electricity for on-site or off-site consumptionv
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
The components and subsystems required to convert solar energy into electric energy suitable for
use. The term includes, but is not limited to, solar panels and solar energy equipment. The area of
a solar energy system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the solar energy system, which
extends to any interconnection equipment. A solar energy system is classified as a Tier 1, Tier 2,
Of Tier 3, or Tier 4 solar energy system as follows:
A.

Tier 1 solar energy systems include the following:

(1) Roof-mounted solar energy systems.
(2) Building-integrated solar energy systems.
(3) Canopy-mounted solar energy systems over parking areas.
B.

Tier 2 solar energy systems include ground-mounted solar energy systems where the Facility
Area of all solar panels and associated equipment on the lot, including any related battery
energy storage system, does not exceed 1,800 square feet.

C. Tier 3 solar energy systems include ground-mounted solar energy systems where the total
Facility Area of all solar panels and associated equipment on the lot, including any related
battery energy storage system, falls between 1,801 square feet and one acre.
D.

Tier 4 solar energy systems are systems that are not included in the list for Tier 1, Tier 2 and
Tier 3 solar energy systems.

Section Three. Section 230-48.1, Solar energy systems, of the Zoning Law of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended as follows:
§ 230-48.1 Solar energy systems.
A. Authority. These provisions for solar energy systems are adopted pursuant to §§ 7-700
through 7-704 ofthe Village Law and § 20 of the Mimicipal Home Rule Law ofthe State of
New York, which authorize the Village to adopt zoning provisions that advance and protect
the health, safety and welfare ofthe commxmity, and, in accordance with the Village Law of
New York State, "to make provision for, so far as conditions may permit, the accommodation
of solar energy systems and equipment and access to sunlight necessary therefor."
B.

Purpose. This Solar Energy Local Law is adopted to advance and protect the pubhc health,
safety, and welfare of Village of Croton-on-Hudson, mcluding:

(1) Taking advantage of a safe, abundant, renewable, and nonpoUuting energy resource;
(2) Decreasing the cost of energy to the owners of commercial and residential properties,
including single-family houses; and
(3) Increasing employment and business development in the region by furthering the installation
of solar energy systems;
(4) Decreasing the use of fossil fuels, thereby reducing the carbon footprint of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson;
(5) Diversifying energy resources to decrease dependence on the grid.
C. Applicability.
(1) The requirements of this section shall apply to all solar energy systems permitted, installed,
or modified in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson after the effective date of this section,
excluding generai maintenance and repair.
(2) Solar energy systems constructed or installed prior to the effective date of this section shall
not be required to meet the requirements of this section.
(3) Modifications to an existing solar energy system that increase the solar energy system area
by more than 5% of the original area of the solar energy system (exclusive of moving any
fencing) shall be subject to the provisions hereof.

D.

General requirements.

(1) A building permit shall be required for installation of all solar energy systems.
(2) Prior to the issuance of a building permit, construction and/or site plan documents, signed
and stamped by a licensed professional engineer or registered architect shall be submitted to
the Engineering Department.
(3) All Village boards are encouraged to condition their approval of proposed developments on
sites adjacent to solar energy systems so as to protect their access to sufficient sunlight to
remain economically feasible over time.
(4) For solar energy systems subject to site plan review, the Village shall require the applicant to
establish an escrow account to recover expenses associated with engineering, environmental
or legal services determined to be reasonably necessary in the processing of an application
under this law.
(5) All solar energy systems shall be designed, erected, and installed in accordance with all
applicable codes, regulations, and industry standards as referenced in the New York State
Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code (Building Code), the New York State Energy
Conservation Code (Energy Code), and the Village Code.
E.

Permitting requirements for Tier 1 solar energy systems. All Tier 1 solar energy systems shall
be permitted in all zoning districts as an accessory use and shall be exempt from site plan
review, subject to the following conditions for each type of solar energy system:

(1) Roof-mounted solar energy systems.
(a) Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall incorporate, when feasible, the following design
requirements:
[1] Roof-mounted solar panels must be attached or ballasted to a lawfully permitted building or
structure, which may be an accessory structure.
[2] All roof-moimted solar energy systems shall be subject to the maximum height regulations
specified for principal and accessory buildings within the underlying zoning district, with the
height exemptions as provided for building-mounted mechanical devices or equipment.
[3] Glare. All solar panels shall have antireflective coating(s).
(2) Building-integrated solar energy systems and canopy-mounted solar energy systems shall be
shown on the plans submitted for the building permit application for the building or property
containing the system. Applicants for canopy-mounted solar energy systems shall submit all
studies as required by the Village Engineer or Building Inspector.
F.

Permitting requirements for Tier 2 solar energy systems. All Tier 2 solar energy systems shall
be permitted on lots having a minimum lot area of no less than 9,000 square feet in all zoning
districts as accessory structures and shall be exempt from site plan review, subject to the

following conditions:
(1) Glare. All solar panels shall have antireflective coating(s).
(2) Setbacks. Tier 2 solar energy systems shall be subject to the setback regulations specified for
the accessory structures within the underlying zoning district, except that they shall be set
back no less than 10 feet fi-om any property line. In RA and RB Zoning Districts all groundmounted solar energy systems shall only be installed in the side or rear yards.
(3) Height. Tier 2 solar energy systems shall be subject to the height limitations specified for
accessory structures v^dthin the underlying zoning district.
(4) Screening and visibility.
(a) All Tier 2 solar energy systems shall have views minimized from adjacent properties to the
extent reasonably practicable.
(b) Solar energy equipment shall be located in a manner to reasonably avoid and/or minimize
blockage of views from surrounding properties and shading of property to the north, while
still providing adequate solar access.
(5) Lot size. Tier 2 solar energy systems shall comply with the existing lot size requirement
specified for accessory structures within the underlying zoning district.
(6) Lot coverage. The surface area covered by Tier 2 solar energy systems shall be included in
the total lot coverage permitted within the underlying zoning district.
G. Permitting requirements for Tier 3 solar energy systems. All Tier 3 solar energy systems are
permitted, subject to a special permit by the Village Board of Trustees, within the RA-40,
RA-60, C-2 and LI zoning districts, and subject to site plan application requirements set forth
in this section.
(1) Applications for the installation of Tier 3 solar energy systems shall be reviewed by the
Building Inspector or Village Engineer for completeness. Applicants shall be advised of the
completeness of their application or any deficiencies that must be addressed prior to
substantive review.
(2) Special permit application requirements. For a special permit application, the site plan
application is to be used as supplemented by the following provisions:
(a) If the property of the proposed project is to be leased, legal consent of all parties, specifying
the use(s) of the land for the duration of the project, including easements and other
agreements, shall be submitted.
(b) Plans showing the layout of the solar energy system, including property lines and physical
features, such as roads, signed by a professional engineer or registered architect.
(c) Nameplate Capacity of the solar energy system (as expressed in MW).

(d) A one- or three-line electrical diagram detailing the solar energy system layout, solar collector
installation, associated components, and electrical intercormection methods, with all Nafional
Electrical Code compliant discormects and over current devices. The diagram should describe
the location and layout of all battery energy storage system components, if applicable, and
should include applicable setback and other bulk and area standards.
(e) Proposed changes to the landscape of the site, including site grading, vegetation clearing and
planting, the removal of any large trees, access roads, exterior lighting, signage, fencing,
landscaping and screening vegetation or structures.
(f) A preliminary equipment specification sheet that documents all proposed solar panels,
significant components, mounting systems, and inverters that are to be installed. A final
equipment specification sheet shall be submitted prior to the issuance of building permit.
(g) Property operation and mamtenance plan. Such plan shall describe continuing photovoltaic
maintenance, anticipated dual-use and property upkeep, such as mowing and trimming.
(h) Erosion and sediment control and stormwater management plans prepared to NYS
Department of Environmental Conservation standards, if applicable, and to such standards as
may be established by the Planning Board.
(i)

Any application under this section shall meet any substantive provisions contained in the site
plan and special permit sections of this Code as, in the judgment of the Plarming Board, are
applicable to the system being proposed.

(j)

The Planning Board or Board of Trustees may impose conditions on its approval of any site
plan or special permit under this section in order to enforce the standards referred to in this
section or in order to discharge its obligations under the State Environmental Quality Review
Act (SEQRA).

(k) Decommissioning plan. A decommissioning plan generally in a form to be provided by the
Viliage and signed by the owner and/or operator of the solar energy system shall be submitted
by the applicant as part of the special permh application, addressing the following:
[I] The cost of decommissioning and removing the solar energy system, as well as all necessary
site remediation or restoration.
[2] The time required to decommission and remove the solar energy system and any ancillary
structures.
[3] The time required to repair any damage caused to the property by the installation and removal
ofthe solar energy system.
[4] A tree restoration plan, restoring the decommissioned area to a condition similar to the
condition that existed prior to the installation. Recognizing that mature plantings caimot be
easily relocated, the Planning Board may exercise discretion in determining the number,
caliper, type and location of plantings in reviewing any such plan, but all plantings shall be
native noninvasive species.

(3) Special use permit standards.
(a) Height and setback. Tier 3 solar energy systems shall adhere to the height and setback
requirements of the underlying zoning district.
(b) Lot size. Tier 3 solar energy systems shall be located on lots with a minimum lot size of four
acres.
(c) Lot coverage.
[1] The following components of a Tier 3 solar energy system shall be considered included in
the calculations for lot coverage requirements:
[a] Foundation systems, typically consisting of driven piles or monopoles or helical screws with
or without small concrete collars.
[b] All mechanical equipment of the solar energy system, including any pad-mounted structure
for batteries, switchboard, transformers, or storage cells.
[c] Paved access roads servicing the solar energy system.
[2] Lot coverage ofthe solar energy system, as defined above, shall not exceed the maximum lot
coverage requirement of the underlying zoning district.
(d) Fencing. All mechanical equipment, including any structure for storage batteries, shall be
enclosed by a fence, as required by NEC, with a self-locking gate to prevent unauthorized
access. Warning signs with the owner or operator's contact information shall be placed on the
entrance and perimeter of the fencing. The type and height of fencing shall be determined as
part of the site plan and special permit review. The fencing and the system may be further
screened by any landscaping needed to avoid adverse aesthetic impacts.
(e) Lighting. Lighting of the solar energy systems shall be limited to that minimally required for
safety and operational purposes, shall be reasonably shielded and downcast from abutting
properties and shall minimize impacts on nocturnal animals where practicable.
(f) Tree cutting and landscaping.
[1] Tree removal shall be subject to the permit requirements of Chapter 208.
[2] Removal of existing trees larger than six (6) inches in diameter at breast height (DBH) shall
be minimized to the extent possible.
[3] Tier 3 Solar Energy System owners shall develop, implement, and maintain native vegetation
to the extent practicable pursuant to a vegetation management plan by providing Native
Perennial Vegetation and foraging habitat beneficial to game birds, songbirds, and
Pollinators. To the extent practicable, when establishing perennial vegetation and beneficial
foraging habitat, the owners shall use native plant species and seed mixes and seed all
appropriate areas within the Facility Area.

[4] Integrated pest management practices shall be used to refrain fi'om or limit pesticide use
(including herbicides) for long-term operation and site maintenance.
(g)

Underground requirements. All on-site utility lines shall be placed underground to the extent
feasible and as permitted by the serving utility, with the exception of the main service
connection at the utility company right-of-way and any new interconnection equipment,
including without limitation any poles, with new easements and right-of-way.

(h) Vehicular paths. Vehicular paths within the site shall be designed in compliance with Uniform
Code requirements to ensure emergency access, while minimizing the extent of impervious
materials and soil compaction.
(i)

Signage.

[1] No signage or graphic content shall be displayed on the solar energy systems except the
manufacturer's name, equipment specification information, safety information, and twentyfour-hour emergency contact information.
[2] As required by the National Electric Code (NEC), discormect and other emergency shutoff
information shall be clearly displayed on a light-reflective surface. A clearly visible warning
sign concerning voltage shall be placed at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and
substations.
(j)

Glare. All solar panels shall have antireflective coating(s).

(k)

Screening and visibility.

[1] Solar energy systems smaller than one acre shall have views minimized from adjacent
properties to the extent reasonably practicable using architectural features, earth berms,
landscaping, or other screening methods that will harmonize with the character of the property
and surrounding area.
[2] Solar energy systems larger than one acre shall be required to:
[a]

Conduct a visual assessment of the visual impacts of the solar energy system on public
roadways and adjacent properties. At a minimum, a line-of-sight profile analysis shall be
provided. Depending upon the scope and potential significance of the visual impacts,
additional impact analyses, including, for example, a digital viewshed report, may be required
to be submitted by the applicant.

[b] Submit a screening and landscaping plan to show adequate measures to screen through
landscaping, grading, or other means so that views of solar panels and solar energy equipment
shall be minimized as reasonably practical from public roadways and adjacent properties to
the extent feasible. The screening and landscaping plan shall specify the locations, elevations,
height, plant species, and/or materials that will comprise the structures, landscaping, and/or
grading used to screen and/or mitigate any adverse aesthetic effects ofthe system, following
the applicable rules and standards established by the Village.

(I)

Steep slopes. Tier 3 solar energy systems shall not be permitted to be located on areas of steep
slopes as defined in Chapter 195.

(m) Conditions. The following shall be made conditions of all special permits issued for Tier 3
solar energy systems.
[I] Ownership changes. If the ovmer or operator of the solar energy system changes or the owner
of the property changes, the special use permit shall remain in effect, provided that the
successor owner or operator assumes in writing all ofthe obligations of the special use permit,
site plan approval, and decommissioning plan. A new owner or operator of the solar energy
system shall notify the Village Engineer or Building Inspector of such change in ownership
or operator within 30 days of the ownership change.
[2] Upon cessation of electricity generation of a solar energy system on a continuous basis for a
period of one year, the Village may notify and instruct the owner or operator of the solar
energy system to implement the decommissioning plan. The decommissioning plan must be
completed within 12 months of notification.
[3] Lien. In the event of default of the owner or operator in the performance of removal of a solar
energy system and/or complying with the requirements of the decommissioning plan, after
proper notice, the Village shall be entitled to arrange for removal or decommissioning and
restoration of the property in accordance with the decommissioning plan, and the cost of same
incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien on the owner's real property.
H.

Permitting requirements for Tier 4 solar energy systems. All Tier 4 solar energy systems are
permitted through the issuance of a special use permit within RA-40, RA-60, C-2 and L I
Zoning Districts, and are subject to site plan and special permit application requirements
established for Tier 3 solar energy systems in Section G, in addition to the following
requirements.

(1) At least 60 days prior to the submission of an application, the Applicant shall conduct a preapplication meeting with the Village Manager to ensure all parties have clear expectations
regarding any Village requirements applicable to the proposed Solar Energy System.
Submission and review of the application shall not be delayed based on the failure of the
Village Manager to respond in a timely manner to a properly filed meeting request. At the
pre-application meeting, the Applicant must provide (1) a brief description of the proposed
facility and its environmental setting, (2) a map of the proposed facility showing project
components, (3) the proposed facility's anticipated impacts, (4) a designated contact person
with telephone number, email address, and mailing address from whom information will be
available going-forward basis, and (5) an anticipated application submission date.
(2) Applications for the installation of Tier 4 solar energy systems shall be reviewed by the
Building Inspector or Village Engineer for completeness. Applicants shall be advised within
60 days of the completeness of their application or any deficiencies that must be addressed
prior to substantive review.
(3) Applications for a Tier 4 Solar Energy System shall include a Community Engagement Plan
detailing the applicant's proposed plans and strategies for ensuring adequate public awareness

and encouraging community participation. Applicants are highly encouraged to discuss the
contents and details proposed in this plan with the Village Manager prior to the submission
of a formal application.
I.

Safety.

(1) Solar energy systems and solar energy equipment shall be certified under the applicable
electrical and/or building codes as required.
(2) Solar energy systems shall be maintained in good working order and in accordance with
industry standards. Site access shall be maintained, including snow removal at a level
acceptable to the local fire department and, if the Tier 3 solar energy system is located in an
ambulance district, the local ambulance corps.
(3) If a battery energy storage system is included as part of the solar energy system, they shall
meet the requirements of any applicable fire prevention and building code when in use and,
when no longer used, shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws and regulations ofthe
Village and any applicable federal, state, or county laws or regulations.
(4) Where deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees or Planning Board, emergency access to
the site for local first responders shall be provided by the installation of an emergency lock
box or a similar device, in a location subject to the approval ofthe Fire Chief

Section Three. The Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Chapter 230, is hereby
amended to add a new Section 230-48.2 entitled "Battery energy storage systems" to read as
follows:
§ 230-48.2. Battery energy storage systems.
A.

Authority. This section is adopted pursuant to §7-700 through §7-704 of the Village Law and
§ 10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of New York State (NYS), which authorize the Village
to adopt zoning provisions that advance and protect the health, safety and welfare of the
community.

B.

Statement of purpose. This Battery Energy Storage System Law is adopted to advance and
protect the public health, safety, welfare, and quality of life of the Village by creating
regulations for the installation and use of battery energy storage systems, with the following
objectives:

(1) To provide a regulatory scheme for the designation of properties suitable for the location,
construction and operation of battery energy storage systems;
(2) To ensure compatible land uses in the vicinity ofthe areas affected by battery energy storage
systems;

10

(3) To mitigate the impacts of battery energy storage systems on environmental resources such
as conservation areas, wildlife and other protected resources; and
(4) To create synergy between battery energy storage system development and the goals of the
Village's Comprehensive Plan.
C. Applicability.
(1) The requirements of this section shall apply to all battery energy storage systems permitted,
installed, or modified in the Village after the effective date of this section, excluding general
maintenance and repair.
(2) Battery energy storage systems that have a valid building permit or have been constructed or
installed prior to the effective date of this section shall not be required to meet the
requirements of this section.
(3) Modifications to, retrofits or replacements of an existing battery energy storage system that
increase the total battery energy storage system designed discharge duration or power rating
shall be subject to this section.
D.

General requirements.

(1) A building permit shall be required for installation of all battery energy storage systems.
(2) All battery energy storage systems, all dedicated-use buildings, and all other buildings or
stmctures that 1) contain or are otherwise associated with a battery energy storage system and
2) are subject to the Uniform Code and/or the Energy Code shall be designed, erected, and
installed in accordance with all applicable provisions of the Unifonn Code, all applicable
provisions of the Energy Code, and all applicable provisions of the codes, regulations, and
industry standards as referenced in the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, and the Village Code.
(3) For battery energy systems subject to site plan review, the Village shall require the applicant
to estabhsh an escrow account to recover expenses associated with engineering,
environmental or legal services determined to be reasonably necessary in the processing of
an application under this law.
(4) Any ground-mounted battery energy storage system shall be placed on a concrete pad having
a minimum height of six (6) inches, or as otherwise prescribed by the Village Engineer.
E.

Tier 1 battery energy storage systems shall be permitted in all zoning districts, as an accessory
use subject to the Uniform Code and the battery energy storage system permit and shall be
shown on plans submitted for the building permit application for the building containing the
system. Tier I battery energy storage systems are exempt from site plan review.

(1) Battery energy storage systems for one- or two-family residential dwelling units shall not
exceed an aggregate energy capacity of the following:
(a) Forty kWh within utility closets and storage or utility spaces.
11

(b) Eighty kWh in attached or detached garages and detached accessory structures.
(c) Eighty kWh on exterior walls.
(d) Eighty kWh outdoors on the ground.
(2) All outside Tier 1 battery energy storage systems shall only be installed in side or rear yards
and meet the minimum lot size and standard setbacks in the zoning district for principal
structures. Heights are limited to 6.5 feet for any external battery energy storage systems.
(3) All outside Tier 1 battery energy storage systems shall provide a fire safety compliance plan.
Such plan shall document and verify that the system and its associated controls and safety
systems are in compliance with the Uniform Code.
(4) All outside Tier 1 battery energy storage systems shall not have an area greater than 225
square feet for a single energy storage system, and all systems in the aggregate shall not
occupy more than 25% of the area ofthe required rear or side yard.
F.

Requirements for Tier 2 battery energy storage systems.

(1) Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems are permitted through the issuance of a special permit
by the Village Board of Trustees within the RA-40, RA-60, C-2 and LI zoning districts, and
shall be subject to the Uniform Code and the site plan application requirements set forth in
this Section.
(2) Applications for the installation of Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System shall be reviewed
by the Building Inspector or Village Engineer for completeness. Applicants shall be advised
of the completeness of their application or any deficiencies that must be addressed prior to
substantive review.
(3) Site plan application. For the installation of Tier 2 battery energy storage systems, the
following site plan requirements apply:
(a) Property lines and physical features, including roads, for the project site.
(b) Proposed changes to the landscape of the site, including site grading, vegetation clearing and
planting, the removal of any large trees, access roads exterior lighting, signage, fencing,
landscaping emd screening vegetation or structures.
(c) A screening and landscaping plan to show adequate measures to screen through landscaping,
grading or other means so that views of the storage systems shall be minimized as reasonably
practical and feasible from public roadways and adjacent properties.
(d) Location of the battery energy storage system and setbacks from property lines.
(e) A one- or three-line electrical diagram detailing the battery energy storage system layout,
associated components, and electrical intercormection methods, with all National Electrical
Code compliant disconnects and over current devices. The diagram should describe the
12

location and layout of all solar energy system components, if applicable, and should include
appiicabie setback and other bulk and area standards.
(f) A preliminary equipment specification sheet that documents the proposed battery energy
storage system components, inverters and associated electrical equipment that are to be
installed. A final equipment specification sheet shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
(g) Name, address, and contact information of the proposed or potential system installer and the
owner and/or operator of the battery energy storage system. Such information of the final
system installer shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(h) Name, address, phone number, and signature of the project applicant, as well as all the
property owners, demonstrating their consent to the application and the use of the property
for the battery energy storage system.
(i)

Zoning district designation for the parcel(s) of land comprising the project site.

(j)

Commissioning plan. Such plan shall document and verify that the system and its associated
controls and safety systems are in proper working condition per requirements set forth in the
Uniform Code. Where commissioning is required by the Uniform Code, battery energy
storage system commissioning shall be conducted by a New York State (NYS) licensed
professional engineer after the installation is complete but prior to final inspection and
approval. A corrective action plan shall be developed for any open or continuing issues that
are allowed to be continued after commissioning. A report describing the results ofthe system
commissioning and including the results of the initial acceptance testing required in the
Unifonn Code shall be provided to the Building Inspector prior to final inspection and
approval and maintained at an approved on-site location.

(k) Fire safety compliance plan. Such plan shall document and verify that the system and its
associated controls and safety systems are in compliance with the Uniform Code.
(1) Operation and maintenance manual. Such plan shall describe continuing battery energy
storage system maintenance and property upkeep, as well as design, construction, installation,
testing and commissioning information, and shall meet all requirements set forth in the
Uniform Code.
(m) Erosion and sediment control and stormwater management plans prepared to New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation standards, if applicable, and to such standards as
may be established by the Planning Board.
(n) Prior to the issuance ofthe building permit or final approval by the Plarming Board, but not
required as part of the application, engineering documents must be signed and sealed by a
NYS licensed professional engineer.
(o) Emergency operations plan. A copy of the approved emergency operations plan shall be given
to the system owner, the Fire Chief, and the Village Engineer or Building Inspector. A
permanent copy shall also be placed in an approved location to be accessible to facility
13

personnel, fire code officials, and emergency responders. The emergency operations plan
shall include the following information:
[1] Procedures for safe shutdown, de-energizing, or isolation of equipment and systems imder
emergency conditions to reduce the risk of fire, electric shock, and personal injuries, and for
safe start-up following cessation of emergency conditions.
[2] Procedures for inspection and testing of associated alarms, interlocks, and controls.
[3] Procedures to be followed in response to notifications from the battery energy storage
management system, when provided, that could signify potentially dangerous conditions,
including shutting down equipment, summoning service and repair persormel, and providing
agreed upon notification to Fire Department personnel for potentially hazardous conditions
in the event of a system failure.
[4] Emergency procedures to be followed in case of fire, explosion, release of liquids or vapors,
damage to critical moving parts, or other potentially dangerous conditions. Procedures can
include sounding the alarm, notifying the Fire Department, evacuating personnel, deenergizing equipment, and controlling and extinguishing the fire.
[5] Response considerations similar to a safety data sheet (SDS) that will address response safety
concerns and extinguishment when a SDS is not required.
[6] Procedures for dealing with battery energy storage system equipment damaged in a fire or
other emergency event, including maintaining contact information for personnel qualified to
safely remove damaged battery energy storage system equipment from the facility.
[7] Other procedures as determined necessary by the Town to provide for the safety of occupants,
neighboring properties, and emergency responders.
[8] Procedures and schedules for conducting drills of these procedures and for training local first
responders on the contents ofthe plan and appropriate response procedures.
(4)

Special permit standards. In addition to the other special permit standards in this chapter, the
following special permit standards shail apply for Tier 2 battery energy storage systems:

(a)

Bulk requirements. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems shall comply with the lot size,
setbacks and height requirements of the underlying zoning district for principal structures.

(b)

Fencing Requirements. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems, including all mechanical
equipment, shall be enclosed by a 7-foot-high fence with a self-locking gate to prevent
unauthorized access unless housed in a dedicated-use building and not interfering with
ventilation or exhaust ports.

(c)

Screening and Visibility. Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems shall have views minimized
from adjacent properties to the extent reasonably practicable using architectural features,
earth berms, landscaping, or other screening methods that will harmonize with the character
of the property and surrounding area. The screening shall not, however, interfere with the
14

normal operation, ventilation or exhaust ports, or fire safety of the storage system. A covenant
regarding the maintenance of any required screening shall be provided by the applicant.
(5) Access. Vehicular access within the site shall be designed to minimize the extent of
impervious materials and soil compaction and meet any applicable emergency access or
safety requirements.
(6) Utility lines and electrical circuitry. All on-site utility lines shall be placed underground to
the extent feasible and as permitted by the serving utility, with the exception of the main
service cormection at the utility company right-of-way and any new intercormection
equipment, including without limitation any poles, with new easements and right-of-way.
(7) Signage.
(a) The signage shall be in compliance with ANSI Z535 and shall include the type of technology
associated with the battery energy storage systems, any special hazards associated, the type
of suppression system installed in the area of battery energy storage systems, and 24-hour
emergency contact information, including reach-back phone number.
(b) As required by the NEC, disconnect and other emergency shutoff information shall be clearly
displayed on a light reflective surface. A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage shall
be placed at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations.
(8) Lighting. Lighting of the battery energy storage systems shall be limited to that minimally
required for safety and operational purposes and shall be reasonably shielded and downcast
from abutting properties and shall minimize impacts on nocturnal animals where practicable.
(9) Vegetation and tree-cutting. Areas within 10 feet on each side of Tier 2 Battery Energy
Storage Systems shall be cleared of combustible vegetation and other combustible growth.
Single specimens of trees, shrubbery, or cultivated ground cover such as green grass, ivy,
succulents, or similar plants used as ground covers shall be permitted to be exempt provided
that they do not form a means of readily transmitting fire. Removal of trees shall be governed
by Chapter 208, Trees, and should be minimized to the extent possible.
(10) Noise. The noise generated from the battery energy storage systems, components, and
associated ancillary equipment shall meet the requirements of Chapter 160, Noise. Apphcants
may submit equipment and component manufacturers noise ratings to demonstrate
compliance. The applicant may be required to provide operating sound pressure level
measurements from a reasonable number of sampled locations at the perimeter of the battery
energy storage system to demonstrate compliance with this standard.
(11) Conditions. The following shall be made conditions of all special permits issued for Tier 2
battery energy storage systems.
[I] Ownership changes. If the owner or operator of the battery energy storage system changes or
the owner of the property changes, the special permit shall remain in effect, provided that the
successor owner or operator assumes in writing all of the obligations of the special permit,
site plan approval, and decommissioning plan. A new owner or operator of the solar energy
15

system shall notify the Village Engineer or Building Inspector in writing of such change in
ownership or operator within 30 days of the ownership change. The special permit and all
other local approvals for the battery energy storage system would be void if a new ovraer or
operator fails to provide written notification to the Village Engineer or Building Inspector in
the required timeframe. Reinstatement of a void special permit wiil be subject to the same
review and approval processes for new applications under this chapter.
[2] Upon cessation of electricity generation of a battery energy storage system on a continuous
basis for a period of one year, the Village may notify and instruct the owner or operator of
the battery energy storage system to implement the decommissioning plan. The
decommissioning plan must be completed within 12 months of notification.
[3] Lien. In the event of default of the owner or operator in the performance of removal of a
battery energy storage system and/or complying with the requirements of the
decommissioning plan, after proper notice, the Village shall be entitled to arrange for removal
or decommissioning and restoration of the property in accordance with the decommissioning
plan, and the cost of same incuned by the Viliage shall constitute a lien on the owner's real
property.
(12) Decommissioning.
(a) Decommissioning Plan. The applicant shall submit a decommissioning plan, developed in
accordance with the Uniform Code, to be implemented upon abandonment and/or in
conjunction with removal from the facility. The decommissioning plan shall include:
[1] A narrative description of the activities to be accomplished, including who will perform that
activity and at what point in time, for complete physical removal of all battery energy storage
system components, structures, equipment, security barriers, and transmission lines from the
site;
[2] Disposal of all solid and hazardous waste in accordance with local, state, and federal waste
disposal regulations;
[3] The anticipated life of the battery energy storage system;
[4] The estimated cost of decommissioning and removal of the battery energy system, as well as
all necessary site remediation or restoration and a description of how said estimate was
determined;
[5] The method of ensuring that funds will be available for decommissioning and restoration;
(b)

The manner in which the site will be restored, including a description of how any changes to
the sunounding areas and other systems adjacent to the battery energy storage system, such
as, but not limited to, structural elements, building penetrations, means of egress, and required
fire detection suppression systems, will be protected during decommissioning and confirmed
as being acceptable after the system is removed; and

(c)

A listing of any contingencies for removing an intact operational energy storage system from
16

service, and for removing an energy storage system from service that has been damaged by a
fire or other event.
(d) Decommissioning Fund. The owner and/or operator of the energy storage system, shall
continuously maintain a frind or bond payable to the Village, in a form approved by the
Village Attomey for the removal of the battery energy storage system as well as all necessary
site remediation or restoration, in an amount to be determined by the Village, for the period
ofthe life of the facility. This fund may consist of a letter of credit from a State of New York
licensed-financial institution. AU costs of the financial security shall be borne by the
applicant.
G. Safety; system certification.
(1) Battery energy storage systems and equipment shall be listed by a nationally recognized
testing laboratory to UL 9540 (standard for battery energy storage systems and equipment)
with subcomponents meeting each of the following standards as applicable:
(a) UL 1973 (standard for batteries for use in stationary, vehicle auxiliary power, and light
electric rail applications);
(b) UL 1642 (standard for lithiimi batteries);
(c) UL 1741 or UL 62109 (inverters and power converters);
(d) Certified under the applicable electrical, building, and fire prevention codes as required;
(e) Alternatively, field evaluation by an approved testing laboratory for compliance with UL
9540 and applicable codes, regulations and safety standards may be used to meet system
certification requirements.
(2) Site access. Battery energy storage systems shall be maintained in good working order and in
accordance with industry standards. Site access shall be maintained, including snow removal
at a level acceptable to the Fire Chief and, if the Tier 2 battery energy storage system is located
in an ambulance district, the local ambulance corps.
(3) Battery energy storage systems, components, and associated ancillary equipment shall have
required working space clearances, and electrical circuitry shall be within weatherproof
enclosures marked with the environmental rating suitable for the type of exposure in
compliance with NFPA 70.

17

Section Four. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Five.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

18

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on February 28
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

20^

of 20^4
Qf
^^^ly p^^^Q^ ^y the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Vlllage) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*}
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

I and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*}
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved){not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*}
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally jdeptedlnlR^Y'anner indicated In
paragraph ,
above.
Clerk ot^he^j^OjflitylegiBj^tive body. City, Town or Village Clerk or
offi9ef^esigr)ated fe^OeCal legislative body
pfQ^f^-t~^5F^*^

(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following resolution was unaiimously
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #34-2024
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory No. 22 of 2023 to amend Chapter
230, Zoning, ofthe Village Code to update the provisions related to solar energy systems and establish provisions
related to battery energy storage systems; and
WHEREAS, on December 20,2023, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes;
and
WHEREAS, on February 7, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and review described in
detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Full EAF "Determination of Significance" attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 22 of 2023, which was
opened and closed on February 7, 2024; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the Waterfront Advisory
Committee with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the LWRP policy standards
and conditions; and
WHEREAS, on February 7, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP Policy's standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regardmg the applicability of the LWRP policies and
the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy I A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended where necessary to ensure
development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and policies.
Policy 6A: To expedite permit procedures, the Village shall coordinate all relevant local laws into a development
package for applicants and/or make all local laws available to applicants proposing development activities.
POLICY 25: Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made resources which are not identified as being of
statewide significance, but which contribute to the overall scenic quality of the coastal area.

POLICY 37 B: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be exerted in order to prevent erosion
and minimize runoff andflooding from new construction,
POLICY 39: The transport, storage, treatment and disposal of solid wastes, particularly hazardous wastes, within
coastal areas will be conducted in such a manner so as to protect groundwater and surface water supplies, significant
fish and wildlife habitats, recreation areas, important agricultural lands and scenic resources.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were reviewed and found not to
be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its determination
that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law to update the provisions related to solar energy systems and
establish provisions related to battery energy storage systems in the Zoning Code, complies with the policy
standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3
Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 22 of
2023 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to update the provisions related to solar energy systems
and establish provisions related to battery energy storage systems, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 5
of2024.
Dated: February 28, 2024
:i^*:ttif'¥*'i=**:**'^

* * * * * * * *'i'*'t::¥

State of New York

* * * * * * * *

A^***

)
ss:

County of Westchester

)

I, Paulme DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New York, do
hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 28* of February 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have^hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal ofthe said Village this OP^ day
of March 20;


