---
title: "LL 5-2017: AMENDING CHAPTER 108 DOGS AND CHAPTER 168 PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS TO ALLOW DO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2017-11-27
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 5-2017: AMENDING CHAPTER 108 DOGS AND CHAPTER 168 PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS TO ALLOW DO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2017-11-27
---

Local Law 5-2017
Filed: 2017-11-27
AMENDING CHAPTER 108 DOGS AND CHAPTER 168 PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS TO ALLOW DOGS ON LEASH WITHIN BLACK ROCK PARK

Local Law Filing

New York State Department of State
Division of Corpprations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
I
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matterj
FILED
STATE RECORDS
• C o u n t y DCity DTown (xjVillage
(Select one:)'

NOV, 2 7 2017

of Croton-on-Hudson

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
of the year 2017

Local Law No. 5

A local law ^'^^"'^'"9 Chapter 108 Dogs and Chapter 168 Parks and Recreation Areas to allow dogs
(Insert Title)
on leash within Black Rock Park.

Be it enacted by the Village Bpard of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

DCounty DCity

DTown

[xjVillage

(Select one:)
of

Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

SEE ATTACHED

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF
STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 5 ofthe year 2017

A local law amending Chapter 108 Dogs arid Chapter 168 Parks and Recreation Areas to allow
dogs on leash within Black Rock Park.

Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1: Chapter 108-6.F(2) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
|
Black Rock Park. Dog owners may bring their licensed restrained dogs to a designated area
within Black Rock Park where dogs may be allowed access not restrained by a chain or leash
subject to certain conditions outlined by the yillage Recreation and Parks Department. Dog
owners may also walk their leashed dogs, with a leash no more than six feet in length, in the
other areas of Black Rock Park not designated as the Black Rock Park off-leash dog park area.
Section 2: Chapter 168-8.D(2) of the Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
|
Black Rock Park. Dog owners/may bring their licensed restrained dogs to a designated area
within Black Rock Park where dogs may be allowed access not restrained by a chain or leash
subject to certain conditions outlined by the pillage Recreation and Parks Department. Dog
owners may also walk their leashed dogs, with a leash no more than six feet in length, in the
other areas of Black Rock Park not designated as the Black Rock Park off-leash dog park area.
Section 3; This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strilce out that which is not appiicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
Five
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson |
•
Village Board ofTrustees
|_ Qp November 6
. 20 22
(Name ofLegislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20 17
of
was duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by iocal legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
was
duly
passed
by
the
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
and was deemed duly adopted

(repassed after disapproval) by the.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
20

on

in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law ahnexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of

of 20.

was duly passed by the

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
on

(Name of Legislative Body)

, and was (approved)(not approved)

20

(repassed after disapproval) by the

20.

.on

i Officer*)
(Elective ChiefExecutive

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law amexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

:

on.

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

I

.

I

was duly passed by the
and was (approved)(not approved)

.20
.on

'

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of.
20

. _ , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances. I
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
of 20.
_ of
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.,
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the City of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
!
20
L, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
estate of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November ^
20
, piursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(Ifany other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adoptgdin-tbejnanner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
Clerk'of the county,
officer designated

(Seal)

Date:
0..
-

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

mfy

-z l
V

. j..y

body. City, Town or Village Clerk or
legislative body

'\-r>,

J

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE Anderson seconded by TRUSTEE Pugh the following
resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a vote of 4-0.
WHEREAS, the Village is considering allowing dogs on leashes at Black Rock
Park in the area that currently prohibits dogs; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2017 has been drafted to amend
Chapters 106 and 108, which would allow, for such access to licensed dogs at
Black Rock Park,
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was he d and closed on November 6, 2017,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board ofTrustees adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 5 of 2017 to allow dogs on leashes at Black Rock Park in the
area that currently prohibits dogs. Upon adoption the law will be Local Law 5 of
2017.
Dated: November 6, 2017
State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular rneeting of the Board ofTrustees of said Village held
dn November 6, 2017.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 8"^ day ofNovember, 2017.

Milage't
(Seal);-^


