---
title: "LL 5-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2023-05-18
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 5-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-05-18
---

Local Law 5-2023
Filed: 2023-05-18
TO AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING TOWING AND BOOTING FOR OUTSTANDING PARKING VIOLATIONS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ n r p / / PM/ F i l i n n

Albany, NY 12231 oooi

l_UUa/ l^avv I I I / / l y

www.dosstate.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
»
HLED
1
• C o u n t y • C i t y • T o w n ^Village
!
STATE RECORDS
(Select one:)

MAY 18 2023

of Croton-on-Hudson

DEI^ARTMENT OF STATE
Local Law No.

05

of the year 2 0 ^

A local law

AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON(Insert Title)

HUDSON REGARDING TOWING AND BOOTING FOR OUTSTANDING
PARKING VIOLATIONS

Be it enacted by the ^"'^9^

of Tmstees

^^^^^

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[XlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 05-2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE V I L L A G E OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING TOWING AND BOOTING FOR
OUTSTANDING PARKING VIOLATIONS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 215, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
§215-47d(l) is hereby aniended to read as follows:
§ 215-47 Towing and booting for outstanding parking violations.
D. Towing.
(1) Vehicles subject to towing. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to provide for the
towing and impoundment of vehicles which have three or more outstanding Village
parking violation defaults against them and which, after mailing a notice of the Village
parking violation defaults and stating the vehicle's eligibility to be towed and impounded
to the registered ovmer at the address provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles
records, and not receiving a response for a period of seven days after having mailed said
notice, are found operated or parked on any public street, public highway, or Village
roadway, or in any Village parking lots where towing may be done.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local lawand
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 25
the {County)(City)(Town){Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on April 24
;,n23
(Name otLegislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^^
of
^^as ^^^^^ passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the {County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name otLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

3.

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the

on
(Name otLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the ,
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Viilage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed afterdisapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there

be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

6. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon atthe (special)(general) election held on
20_^
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption ofCharter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
jState of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vole of a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
1 further certify that 1 have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finall^,,^^dT5ptid in theTrTanner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
_ ative body. City, Town orVillage Ue
by local legislative body J^PC>^^^^^
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution # 82-2023
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to clarify language related to
procedures for the towing and impoundment of vehicles with three or more
outstanding parking violation defaults, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on April 24, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2023, amending Chapter 215, Vehicles and
Traffic, of the Village Code regarding towing and impoundment for outstanding
parking violations, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 5 of 2023.

Dated: April 24, 2023
»H ^i* »^ ^i*

"l*

•i*

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I , Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 24* of April 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the saidVOUage this 28* day of April 2023.


