---
title: "LL 7-2022: ADDING PROVISIONS FOR A LOCAL ENERGY CODE UNDER CHAPTER 86 OF THE CODE OF THE VI"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2022-06-27
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 7-2022: ADDING PROVISIONS FOR A LOCAL ENERGY CODE UNDER CHAPTER 86 OF THE CODE OF THE VI"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-06-27
---

Local Law 7-2022
Filed: 2022-06-27
ADDING PROVISIONS FOR A LOCAL ENERGY CODE UNDER CHAPTER 86 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE CROTON-ON-HUDSON

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commerciat Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. dos. state. ny. u s/co r ps

Local Law Filing

(Use this f o r m to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
Italics or underiining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

FILED
STATE RECORDS

IxlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Local Law No.
A local law

of the year 2022

07

ADDING PROVISIONS FOR A LOCAL ENERGY CODE UNDER
(Insert Title)

CHAPTER 86 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

Be it enacted by the ViHage Board ofTrustees

of the

(Name ofLegislative Body)

•County

DCity

DTown

IxjVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 7 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW ADDING PROVISIONS FOR A LOCAL ENERGY CODE UNDER
CHAPTER 86 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BE IT ENACTED by the Board ofTrustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Recitals and Legislative Intent
The New York State Energy Conservation Construction Code (hereinafter referred to as the "State
Energy Code") was adopted by the State Fire Prevention and Building Code Council (hereinafter
referred to as the "Code Council") pursuant to Article 11 of the Energy Law.
The State Energy Code includes the provisions contained in Part 1240 of Title 19 of the New York
Codes, Rules and Regulations (hereinafter referred to as "Part 1240") and the publications
incorporated by reference in Part 1240.
The publications currently incorporated by reference in Part 1240 include, but are not limited to,
the 2020 edition of the Energy Conservation Construction Code of New York State (hereinafter
referred to as the "2020 ECCCNYS") and the 2016 edition of ASHRAE 90.1 (hereinafter referred
to as "ASHRAE 90.1-2016").
The 2020 ECCCNYS is based on the 2018 edition of a publication entitied International Energy
Conservation Code (hereinafter referred to as the "2018 IECC").
The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority (hereinafter referred to as
"NYSERDA") has issued a publication entitied NYStretch Energy Code 2020, Version l.O, dated
July 2019 (hereinafter referred to as "NYStretch"). NYStretch modifies (i.e., amends, replaces,
replaces and renames, or adds to) certain sections, certain tables, and a certain appendix in the
2018 IECC; adds certain sections, certain tables, and certain appendices to the 2018 IECC;
modifies (i.e., adds to, amends, or replaces) certain sections and certain tables in ASHRAE 90.12016; and adds certain new sections to ASHRAE 90.1-2016.
Studies commissioned by NYSERDA indicate that modifying the State Energy Code in the manner
contemplated by NYStretch can result in significant savings in energy usage and energy costs.
Article 11 of the Energy Law authorizes municipalities to adopt local energy conservation
construction codes that are more stringent than the State Energy Code.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to adopt as its local energy conservation construction
code the State Energy Code as modified in the manner defined in NYStretch.

Section Two. Adoption of Local Energy Conservation Construction Code
Chapter 86 Building Construction, Section 86-6 Powers and Duties of the Village Engineer, of the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, is hereby amended to add new subsection 86-6.F. to
read as foUows:
§86-6.F. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
hereby adopts, as its local energy conservation construction code, the State Energy Code as
modified in the manner contemplated by NYStretch. Such local energy conservation construction
code shall consist of the provisions currently set forth in Part 1240 and in the publications currently
incorporated by reference in Part 1240; provided, however, that the 2020 ECCCNYS and
ASHRAE 90.1-2016 shall be deemed to be modified as follows:
(a) in each case where a section, table, or appendix in the 2018 IECC is modified by
NYStretch, the corresponding section, table, or appendix in the 2020 ECCCNYS shall be
deemed to be modified in the same manner;
(b) in each case where a section, table, or appendix is added to the 2018 IECC by
NYStretch, such section, table, or appendix shall be deemed to be added to the 2020
ECCCNYS subject to the following exception:
(i) Section R403.6.2, which is added to the 2018 IECC by section 3.11 of
NYStretch, shall not be deemed to be added to the 2020 ECCCNYS;
(c) each section or table in ASHRAE 90.1-2016 that is modified by NYStretch shall be
deemed to be so modified and
(d) each section added to ASHRAE 90.1-2016 by NYStretch shall be deemed to be added
to ASHRAE 90.1-2016.
A copy of NYStretch is annexed hereto and made part hereof.
Section Three. Applicability
The local energy conservation construction code, as hereby adopted, shall be applicable to all
buildings constructed, substantially renovated, or altered in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson on
or after the effective date ofthis local law and to all additions to buildings inthe Village of Crotonon-Hudson made on or after the effective date of this local law. However, pursuant to Energy Law
§ 11-109(2):
(a) if a copy of this local law is filed with the New York State Department of State, Division
of Building Standards and Codes, as Secretariat for the Code Council, within thirty days
after adoption of this local law, and if the Code Council shall subsequently determine that
the local energy conservation construction code as hereby adopted is not more restrictive
than the State Energy Code, then on and after the date of such determination the local
energy conservation construction code as hereby adopted shall no longer be enforced and
the State Energy Code shall be applicable and shall be enforced in the Village of Crotonon-Hudson ; and
(b) if a copy of this local law is not filed with the New York State Department of State,
Division of Building Standards and Codes, as Secretariat for the Code Council, within
thirty days after adoption of this local law, then the local energy conservation construction
code as hereby adopted shall nol be enforceable until and unless the Code Council shall
determine that such local energy conservation construction code is more restrictive than
the State Energy Code, and until and unless the Code Council shall make such

determination the State Energy Code shall be applicable and shall be enforced in the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Section Four. Severability
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, clause or phrase in this local law, or any part
thereof, is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining sections or portions of this local law, or any part thereof
Section Five. Authority
This local law is adopted pursuant to Energy Law § 11-109(1) and Municipal Home Rule Law §
10.
Section Six. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect upon filing with the Secretary of State pursuant to the Municipal
Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(VII[age) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board ofTrustees
on -^une21
(Name ofLegislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 2 0 ^ ^
of
y^,as ^uiy passed by the
, In accordance with the appiicabie

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20.^
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed afterdisapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

^

20|

I

1, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(VIIlage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Wame ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such iocai lav/ was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and finai adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Vlllage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved){not appfo^n^)
^
\ ^
on
20
_ . Such locaK

(Elective ChiefExecutive Offtcer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or. if there

be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such offioer Is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (speclal)(general) election held on
20_
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote o f a majority o f t h e qualified electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(if any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
i further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same Is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally^dopted-tn-th^ manner Indicated in
paragraph,
above.
ive body. City, Town or Village Clerk Qr
ical legislative body
i^o^^C (\u t> '
(Seal)

• -

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev 06/12)

Date:

'^Z^'l/f^'^

Page 4 of 4

... ^
'

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0
vote.
Resolution #101-2022
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 86 of the Village Code, Building
Construction, to institute the NYStretch Energy Code, and
WHEREAS the Village Board ofTrustees is considering the adoption ofLocal
Law Introductory No. 7 of 2022, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on June 6, 2022, a Public Hearing was opened and closed, and
WHEREAS on June 6, 2022, tiie Village Board conducted its LWRP Consistency
Review and completed the SEQRA EAF Part II, and
WHEREAS on June 21, 2022, the Village Board adopted a resolution of consistency with the
LWRP and a Negative Declaration in accordance with
SEQRA,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board ofTrustees
hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2022 to amend Chapter 86 of the Village Code,
Building Construction, to institute the NYStretch Energy Code, which upon adoption becomes
Local Law No. 7 of 2022.
Dated: June 21, 2022
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board ofTrustees of said Village held
on June2P*' 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
yiKage^tliis'22"'^ day of June 2022.


