---
title: "LL 8-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 230, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO TRANSFER"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2025-05-23
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 8-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 230, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO TRANSFER"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-05-23
---

Local Law 8-2025
Filed: 2025-05-23
TO AMEND CHAPTER 230, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO TRANSFER AUTHORITY FOR THE ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL PERMITS TO THE PLANNING BOARD

New York Stato
KlXt/
YORK

>, STATE

D e p a r t m e n t o f S t a t e
•»^«««-"" -'«.««.^

Department o f state
DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS,

Corporations, State Records & UCC

STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

L o c a l L a w Fiiing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legisiative body of the local government listed below:
of the year 20 ^
Local Law Title:

^MFMn P . H A P T F R P.-^O 7nNiMn O F T H F r.nnF O F T H F \ / I I I AP;F O F
CROTON-OM-HUDSOM TO TRANSFER AUTHORITY FOR THE ISSUANCE QF SPECIAL
PFRMIT.9 T n T H F PI A N M I M f ; R O A R H

it enacted by the Board of Trustees

^^^the

fA/ame of Legislative Body)

• County
(Select one)

•

City

•

Town

0 Village

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only

FILED
STATE RECORDS
MAY 2 3 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Department of State Local Law index Number:

%

of the year 20

o?S

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body ofthe local government.)
DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number
the (County)(Clty)(Town)(Village) of

of 2Q

Croton-on-Hudson

Village Board of Trustees
Z
.

of

y^as duly passed by the
May 21

on 25
20

on

•
^
in accordance

fA/ame of Legislative Body)

with the applicable provisions of law.
2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

ofthe

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

on

20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify thatthe local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local iaw number
(County)(City)(Town)(Vil!age) of

of 20

ofthe

was duly passed by the
on

20

andwas

fA/ame of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a {mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general){special)(annual) election held on
20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

ofthe

was duly passed by the
on

20

andwas

(Name of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")

20

. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition

requesting such referendum was filed as of

20

in accordance with the

applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto locai laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f (Rev. 02/25)

.

'

p^ge 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify thatthe local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
the City of_

of 20

of

having submitted to referendum pursuantto

the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the IVlunicipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority ofthe qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20

became operative.

6. (County iocal law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

of

State of New York, having been submitted to

the County of
the electors at the General Election of November

20

pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of

section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote o f a majority ofthe qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph

above.
Pauline DiSanto
Clerk of the county legTslative bod^CitA Town or Village Glerk or
officer designated by local legislativ^tKJoy

(Seal)

May 15, 2025
(Date)

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 3 of 3

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 8 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230, ZONING, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO TRANSFER AUTHORITY FOR THE
ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL PERMITS TO THE PLANNING BOARD
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Article X, Special permit uses, of Chapter 230, Zoning, ofthe Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 230-55. Purpose; when required.
Any use in any part of this chapter made subject to a special permit by the Village Board of
Trustees may be permitted on application and after public notice and hearing. Such use shall be
deemed to be prohibited unless a special permit has been granted by the Village Planning Board
and filed with the Village Clerk.
The purpose ofa special permit use is to allow for the proper integration of uses in the commimity
and appropriate zoning districts. Because of their characteristics, or the special characteristics of
the area in which they are to be located, special permit uses require consideration and conditions
so that they may be properly located with respect to the objectives of this chapter and their
proposed use is in harmony with local zoning laws and will not adversely affect the neighborhood
if such requirements are fully met. If an application for a special use permit does not meet the
statutory conditions for its use, it shall be deemed a non-conforming use.
§ 230-56. Renewal.
The grant of a special permit for the use indicated therein may be conditioned on periodic renewal,
which renewal may be granted only following upon public notice and hearing. Such renewal shall
be withheld or granted subject to terms and conditions additional to or different from those in the
original grant only upon a determination that:
A.
B.

The factors which justified the original grant no longer exist or have changed
sufficiently to require additional or different terms and conditions; or
The terms and conditions of the original special permit have not been or are not being
complied with, wholly or in part. A notice of violation pursuant to § 230-173 shall be
prima facie evidence of lack of conformity with such terms and conditions.

§ 230-57. Application.
Application for a special permit pursuant to this article shall be made, in writing, to the Village
Planning Board, accompanied by such fee as the Village Board of Trustees may from time to
time set by resolution.^ Such petition shall be supported by a preliminary site development plan
containing information required by Article XI of this chapter. All conditions associated with a
special permit must be addressed to be deemed a complete application by the Building
Department. The submission must include the following documentation:
A. A description of the proposed use, with reference to the appropriate use and
1. Editor's Note: The current fee resolution is onfilein the offiee of tlie Village Clerk. See also Ch. 122, Fees.

regulations of this chapter, including any supplementary regulations applying thereto.
This description should identify any potential detrimental impacts to adjacent
properties and impacted communities.
B. A basic cost-benefit analysis or similar study to review the estimated municipal costs,
services and prospective revenues which would be generated by the proposed use. At
their discretion, either the Building Department or Planning Board may require a
municipal impact study from any application.
C. Evidence that the proposed use is consistent with the goals ofthe Village
Comprehensive Plan.
D. A traffic and circulation study projecting the effects of the proposed use ofthe
existing and probable future traffic and access in the vicinity of the proposed use.
E. Copies of environmental assessments or permh applications and supporting materials
which may be required to meet New York State or federal regulations.
F. A stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) consistent with the requirements of
Chapter 196, Article I , Stormwater Management and Erosion and Sediment Control,
shall be required for any special permit approval that qualifies as or authorizes a land
development activity as defined in Chapter 196, Article I. The SWPPP shall meet the
performance and design criteria and standards in Chapter 196, Article I. The approved
special permit shall be consistent with the provisions of Chapter 196, Article 1.
§230-58. Review of application.
Every application for a special permh shall be filed with the Building Department both
electronically and with hard copies. The number of hard copies of the application and supporting
documentation needed for the Planning Board shall be determined by the Building Department.
Electronic versions of the application shall be distributed to the Board of Trustees for its
recommendation, if any.
The Plarming Board may also adopt such terms and additional conditions to the special permit
as it deems appropriate to achievement of the foregoing objectives and the following goals:
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
B. The compatibility ofthe location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties
in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
C. The safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the
pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account
the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or
conducted in coimection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of
walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and
buildings and their appropriate development.
E. Protection of adjacent properties or impacted communities.
F. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
§ 230-59. Public hearing; escrow amounts.
Upon the filing of an application deemed complete by the Building Department, the Plarming
Board will place the application upon its agenda in due course for a presentation and then a public
hearing. No application shall be processed or placed on an agenda until all applicable outstanding
fees, fines, taxes, professional fees and escrow amounts are paid and the Building Department
deems the application complete. At any stage, if an application should fall into arrears regarding
the foregoing or i f escrows are not replenished per § 178-2, the Building Department may

administratively remove the application from any agenda and stay the public hearing until the
arrears has been paid or not process the related application or issue relevant permits. The Building
Department may, at its discretion deem an application abandoned after giving reasonable notice
regarding the same.
§ 230-60. Goals and objectives; referral to county; notice of public hearing.
The Planning Board, in considering any application for a special permit hereunder, shall make
findings on the objectives and goals listed in § 230-58 and, in addition, may refer legislative
matters to the Board of Trustees so as to ensure that the public health, welfare and safety shall be
protected, that the environmental and land resources of the community shall be put to the best
possible use and that any authorization hereimder shall not create fiscal burdens upon the
community at large or an adverse impact upon adjacent property and its permitted use by right
under this chapter.
Applications shall be referred, when required by law, to the Westchester County Planning
Department for review pursuant to the Westchester Coimty Administrative Code at least 30 days
prior to the required public hearing. Notice of the public hearing shall be published at least once
not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing in the official newspaper, and notice of
hearing shall be mailed not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing to all owners of
property abutting and within 200 feet of the property for which such application is made and
to any other person(s) the Planning Board may deem to be particularly affected. In the case of
any special permit application pertaining to real property within a distance of 500 feet of the
boundaries of any municipality or state or county road, park or other state-owned facility, notice
of such hearing shall be mailed to the Clerk of such municipality, and to the County Planning
Department not less than 10 days prior to such hearing. Provided that due notice shall have been
published and that there shall have been substantial compliance with the remaining provisions
of this section, the failure to give notice in exact conformance herewith shall not be deemed to
invalidate any action taken in coimection with the grant or denial of any special permit.
§ 230-61. Conditions; notice of decision.
A. The Planning Board, in approving any special permit hereunder, shall require
conformance to any supplementary regulations applying to such uses generally and
may establish additional conditions, including but not limited to:
1. Increasing required lot size or yard dimensions;
2. Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
3. Increasing street widths;
4. Limiting the number, size and location of signs;
5. Requiring fencing, screening, landscaping, or other facilities to protect adjacent
properties;
6. Requiring alternate location and layout of buildings;
7. Architectural features;
8. Site plan conditions related to the special permit and effected parcels;
9. Further define or limit the use or characteristics of the use which are reasonably
related to the public health, safety and general welfare and as may be necessary to
carry out the intent of this chapter.
B. The decision ofthe Village Planning Board shall immediately be filed in the office of
the Village Clerk and a copy thereof mailed to the applicant.
§ 230-62. Timing, appeals and waivers.
A. Unless specifically exempted in the decision of the Planning Board, any regulation or
conditions of such special permit shall not be subject to appeal before the Zoning Board

B.

of Appeals, and any such appeal shall render such permit void and without effect
without necessity of fiirther action by the Village. Any person aggrieved by any
decision of the Planning Board hereunder shall, within 30 days of the filing of the
decision, apply to a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the Village Law and
Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules.
No requirement or conditions imposed by this Article for any special permit use shall
be waived by the Plarming Board, Board of Appeals or the Board of Trustees and shall
be the minimum requirements for any authorization hereunder. No requirement or
conditions imposed by this Article for any special permit use shall be varied or reduced
to such an extent that it would frustrate the purpose of this law or eviscerate a
requirement or condition in its entirely. The grant of a special permit shall authorize
only one special permit use and shall be limited only to the use described and approved
in such permit. Special permits shall, unless subject to periodic renewal at the discretion
of the Plarming Board, be granted for an indefinite period but shall expire automatically
two years from the date of grant, unless at such time substantial construction has begun
pursuant to the approved application. The Building Department shall have the
discretionary authority to issue a one-year extension for good cause shown.

§230-63. Performance guaranty.
The Planning Board may, as a condition to the grant of a special permit, require a bond on terms
satisfactory to the Building Department, guaranteeing performance of the final site development
plan approved therein.
§ 230-64. Final site development plans.
The applicant shall be required to submit to the Planning Board site development plans
contemporaneously with its special permit application. Upon recommendation of the Building
Department, and at the discretion of the Planning Board, the Planning Board may streamline its
process and contemporaneously review site development plans and any application for a special
permit. The Planning Board shall approve, approve conditionally or disapprove such plans, in
accordance with Article XI of this chapter and such regulations as the Village may have adopted
or may in the future adopt under such article.
Section Two. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Three. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Tmstees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #119-2025
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory
No. 2 of 2025 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, o f t h e Village Code to transfer the
authority to issue special permits to the Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, on February 26, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes; and
WHEREAS, on May 14, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process
and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Short EAF "Determination of
Significance" attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 2 of 2025, which was opened and closed on May 14, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency firom
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village's Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions; and
WHEREAS, on May 14, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency ofthe Proposed Action with
those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 6: Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above,
were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption ofa local
law to transfer the authority to issue special permits to the Planning Board, complies
with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2025 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village
Code to transfer the authority to issue special permits to the Planning Board, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 8 of 2025.

Dated: May 21, 2025
^ ^ ifc 5^5 5^! ^ 'fs sj*

5^! ^

-J-

^

^» 3jC

3^ l|i ^ji •(! !^ ^fi SjS

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 2V^ of May 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal ofthe said Viilage this 22"^^ day of May 2025.

(Seal)


