---
title: "LL 8-2015: TO AMEND CHAPTER 225 WATERFRONT  REVITALIZATION TO STREAMLINE PROCEDURES FOR OBT"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2015-10-19
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 8-2015: TO AMEND CHAPTER 225 WATERFRONT  REVITALIZATION TO STREAMLINE PROCEDURES FOR OBT"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2015-10-19
---

Local Law 8-2015
Filed: 2015-10-19
TO AMEND CHAPTER 225 WATERFRONT  REVITALIZATION TO STREAMLINE PROCEDURES FOR OBTAINING A CONSISTENCY, REVIEW WITH THE VILLAGE'S LOCAL WATERFRONT REVITALIZATION PROGRAM

Local La w Filing

New York state Department of state
Division of Corporations, State Records and Unifomi Commercial Cpde
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
wWw.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this fbrm to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

pCity

(Selectone:)

piown

^Village

' '

.1

of Croton-on-Hudson

FILED
, STATERECORDS

nnT 1 p ?m
DEPARTMENT OF STATI
of the. year 20^5

Local Law No. . 8

A local l a w *° srns"^ Chapter 225 VVaterfront Revitalization to streamline procedures for
(InsertTitle)
'
'^"~''
~~'
~'
'^.
"

obtaining a consistency; review with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization.
Program.

Be it enacted by the >^'"^g^ Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County • C i t y
(Select one:)
o f Croton-on-Hudson

•Town

[xjVillage
as follows:

see attached

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this locai law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
p- ht
I hereby certify that the local law annexed heretp, designated as local law No. ^'9"^
of 20l^
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson.
_^
^as duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees - •
. •
on October s '
2 0 l £ _ , in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law:
."

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
,
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
• •
;•
was duly passed by the
—• ''.
:
on
-.
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body).
. •
(repassed after disapproval) bythe
' >•„
•
'
'
;
and vvas deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
^ 20| I I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the.(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

^

•

:

'.

•
on
.
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the ^
^
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

" 20,:

of 20

of

was duly passed by the
•

• •'

was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local jaw No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of ^
•"
'.
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

'.
^
.•

'

•
on

•

of 20

of

:

was duly passed by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

, ,

'
(Elective Chief Executive Officer')

:on

20

. Such local

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officerof a county elected on a county-wide basis or, ifthere
be none, the chairperson of the county legislatiye body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-r (Rev. 06/12)

' " .

.

.

Page 3 of 4

-

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
;
bf 20
of
the City of
.
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Lavv, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held b n ;
20
, became operative.
I

• ' . • • • '' ~ .
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify thiat the local law annexed heretp, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
(If any
other
hasYork,
beenhaving
followed,
please
provide
anelectors
appropriate
the
County
of authorized
. form of; final adoption
iState of New
been
submitted
to the
at thecertification.)
General Election of
INovember
further certify
have
the preceding
locai law
with
thesection
original
file in
this office
and that
same
a
_ — _that
_ _ I—
_ 20compared
_ ; pursuant
tb subdivisions
5 and
7 of
33on
ofthe
Municipal
Home
Rulethe
Law,
and is
having
correct
transcript
therefrom
and
ofthe
whole
pf
such
original
local
law,
and
was
finally
ado^edJaJbeuroaQner
indicated
in
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
paragraph,
^
above.
T,^^'''^^^^
A
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became.operative.
Jy, City, Town or ViUagfilllfitkjor
islatiye^dy
'?A^njt^t>i^<=**^' ^
(Seal)
O'.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 4 of 4

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STAtE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Groton-on-Hudson
LocalLawNo. 8 of the year 2015

A local law to amend Chapter 225 Waterfront Revitalization to streamline procedures for
obtaining a consistency review with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program.
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

§ 225-1. Title.
This chapter will be known as the "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Waterfront Consistency
Review Law."
$ 225-2. Statutory authority; purpose; legislative intent.

This chapter is adopted under the authority of the Municipal Home Rule Law and the Waterfront
Revitalization of Coastal Resources and Inland Waterways Act of the State ofNew York (Article
42 of the Executive Law).

B.

'

"

'

'

• • ^- •

The purpose of this chapter is to provide aframeworkfor agencies to consider the policies and
purposes contained in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson LWRP when reviewing applications for
.actions or direct actions located in the Village coastal area and to ensure that such actions are
consistent with said LWRP policies, and whenever, practicable will advance one or more of them.
It is the intention of the Village of Croton-on-Hudsbn that the preservation, enhancement and
utilization of the natural and man-made resources of the coastal area of the Village of Croton-onHudson take place in a cornprehensive manner to ensure a proper balance between protection of
natural resources and the need to accommodate population growth and economic development.
Accordingly, this chapter is intended to achieve such a balance, permitting the beneficial use of
coastal resources while preventing the following: loss of living estuarine resources and wildlife;
diminution of open space areas and of public access to the waterfront; erosion of shoreline;
impairment of water quality and scenic beauty; losses due to flooding, erosion and
sedimentation; or permanent adverse changes to ecological systems.

§ 225-3. Definitions.

.

, -

As used in this chapter, the fpllowing terms shall haVe the meanings indicated:
ACTION
Either Type 1 or unlisted actions as defined in the SEQRA regulations (6 NYCRR 617).
AGENCY
Any board, agency, department, office, other body or officer of the Village of Croton-onHudson.
COASTAL AREA or ZONE
The lands and waters within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson's jurisdiction as described
in the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program.
COASTAL ASSESSMENT FORM (CAE)
The form, approved by the Village Manager, and on file in the Village Clerk's Office,
and used by an agency to assist it in determining the consistency ofan action with the
LWRP.
CONSISTENT
That the action will substantially comply with the LWRP policies and, whenever
practicable, will advance one or more of them.
DETERMINATION OF CONSISTENCY
The written decision that is made regarding whether the action substantially complies
with the LWRP policies and whenever practicable will advance one or more of them.
DIRECT ACTION
An action planned and proposed for impleriientation by an agency.
LEAD AGENCY
• Ah involved agency under SEQRA principally responsible for undertaking, fiinding or
approving an action, and therefore responsible for determining whether an environmental
irnpact statement is required in connection with the action and for the preparation and
fliing of the statement if one is required, in accordance with SEQRA.
LOCAL WATERFRONT REVITALIZATION PROGRAM (LWRP)
The local program approved by the Secretary of State pursuant to the Waterfront
.
Revitalization of Coastal Areas and Inland Waterways Act (Executive Law Article 42), a
copy of which is on file in the office of the Village Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-onHudson.'
,
RECOMMENDATION OF CONSISTENCY
The recommendation that is made by the WAC regarding whether the action substantially
complies with the LWRP policies and whenever practicable Will advance one or more of
them.
•
SEORA '
The State Environmental Quality Review Act, codified as Article 8 of the Environmental
Conservation Law, and its'implementing regulations, 6 NYCRR Part 617.
WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE fWAC)
The Committee that will make a recominendation of consistency regarding an action.
§ 225-4. Management and coordination of the LWRP.
A. The lead agency shall be responsible for coordinating review of actions in the Village of,
Croton-on-Hudson's coastal zone for consistency with the LWRP policies. •

B. The WAC will advise, assist andriiakerecommendations pf consistency to the lead agency in
its review of actions and in the implementation of the LWRP, its policies and projects.
C. The Village Board with the assistance of the WAC shall coordinate with the New. York State
Department of State regarding consistency review of actions by Federal agencies and with State
agencies regarding consisteni^y review of their actions.
D. The WAC shall assist the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees in making
applications for fiinding frPm State, Federal or other sources to finance projects included in the
LWRP.
E. The WAC will consist of five members appointed on a yearly basis by the Mayor, consisting
of members of the Board of Trustees, the Water Control Commission, the Planning Board arid, at
the Mayor's discretion, the Village's environmental consultant. The Board of Trustees, the Water
Control Commission and the Planning Board shall each be represented on the WAC by at least
one and np more than two members. The Mayor shall appoint the Chairperson on a yearly basis.
F. Any vacancy shall be filled by the Mayor for the balance of the expired term within 60 days
or as soon as practicable thereafter, of receiving notice of the vacancy.
G. The WAG may request that the referring agency retain a consultant to assist in its review
pursuarit to Chapter 178 of the Village Code, The Chairperson of the WAC shall submit the
request for retaining a consultant to the referring agency.
H. The meimbers of the WAC shall serve without compensation and shall be charged with the
duties as set forth in this chapter.
,'
I. For conducting business including making a recommendation of consistency, a qiiorum shall
consist of three rhembers of the WAG.
§ 225-5. Review of actions required.
A. Prior to approving, funding or undertaking a proposed action located within the Village of
Grptbn-on-Hudson coastal zone, the lead agency shall make a determination of consistency:,
B. Ah application to a Village of Groton-ori-Hudson agency for approval or funding of an action
shall be accompanied by a coastal assessment form (CAF) and other required documents.
§ 225-6. Consistency review.

^

;

A. Whenever a Village agency declares, itself lead agency regarding a proposed action in the
Village's coastal zone, the agency shall refer a copy of the CAF and any other required
documents to the WAC within ten (10) days. Prior to the lead agency making its determination
of consistency, it shall consider the recommendation of the WAG with reference to the
determination of consistency of the proposed action with the LWRP policies.
Wheriever a Village agency is an involved agency under SEQRA and not the lead agency for a
proposed action in the Village's coastal zone, either the Village Board of Trustees, the Planning

Board, the Zoning Board of Appeals, or the Water Control Commission shall be deemed the
Lead Agency under this chapter. If multiple Village agencies are involved agencies, the lead
agency under this chapter will be determined in the order stated above.
B. After referral from the lead agency, the WAC shall review the CAF and other required
documents and rnake a recommendatipn to the lead agency regarding the action's consistency
with the LWRP policies.
'
'
ji.
The WAG shall render its writteri recommendation of consistency to the lead agency within
thirty (30) days 'of receiving the referral ofthe CAF and any other required documents. The
WAC may request an extension of time in order to obtain more information or more
documentation, or the need to hire a consultant from the lead agency, in order to render its
v^itten recommendation of consistency. The extension of the time shall be by mutual agreement,
of the lead agency and applicant.
The WAC's recommendation shall indicate whether the proposed action is consistent with or
inconsistent with one or more of the LWRP policies and shall elaborate in writing the basis for
its opinion. The WAC shall, along with its recommendation of consistency, make any
suggestions to the lead agency conceming modification of the proposed action, including
recommending conditions of approval, to make it consistent with the LWRP policies or to
greater advance one or more of theni. ;
In the event that the WAC's recommendation of consistency is riot forthcoming within the
specified time, the lead agency shall make its determination of consistency without the benefit of
the WAC's recommendation of consistency.
C. Upon receipt of the WAC's recommendation of consistency, the lead agency shall consider
whether the proposed action is consistent with the LWRP policies. The lead agency shall
consider the WAC's recommendation of consistency; the CAF and other relevant information in
makirig its deterrnination of consistency. No approval or decision shall be rendered for an action
in the coastal area without a determination of consistency having first been adopted by the lead
agency. The lead agency shall circulate its determination to all other involved agencies.
D. Where an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is being prepared or required, the draft EIS
must identify applicable LWRP policies and include a discussion ofthe effects and impacts of
the proposed action on such policies.
E. The lead agency which is making a determination of consistency for direct actioris must also
review consistency with Section IV of the LWRP, in making its consistency determination.
F. Recommendation of consistency
(1) The WAC's recommendation of consistency shall indicate whether, in its opinion, the
proposed action is consistent or inconsistent with the LWRP policies. The
recommendation of consistency shall address:
,,
(a) Potentially significant adverse impacts on coastal area resources and the consistency of
the action with the LWRP policies.

(b)

Altemative actions which would avoid the potential significant adverse impacts on
coastal resources and ensure consistency with the LWRP policies.

(c) Measures to nlitigate potential significant adverse impacts on coastal resources and
resolve inconsistencies with LWRP policies.
(2)

The WAG shall approve its recommendation of consistency by a majority vote of a
quorum of its members.

,

G. In the event the WAC's recommendation of consistency is that the action is inconsistent with
the LWRP policies, and the lead agency makes a contrary determination of consistency, the lead
agency shall elaborate in writing the basis for its disagreement with the WAC's recommendation
of consistency and state the manner and extent to which the lead agency believes that the action
is consistent with the LWRP policies.
H. If the lead agencyfindsthat the action is not consistent with one or more of the LWRP
policies, the action shall not be undertaken, approved or. funded unless the lead agency makes a
written finding that, on baknce, the action should nevertheless be undertaken, approved or
funded taking into consideration each of the following factors listed below. Such a finding shall
be a prerequisite to a determination of consistency with the LWRP policies.
(1) No reasonable altematives exist to the proposed action which would permit the action
to proceed in a manner that is consisterit with the LWRP policies.
(2) The action would be undertaken in a manner which will minimize inconsistencies
with LWRP policies.
•
'.
(3) The action will advance one or more of the other LWRP policies or proposed
projects.
(4) The action will result in an overriding village, regional or statewide public benefit.

I. The lead agency shall have the authority, in its determination of consistency, to impose
reasonable conditions on an action to ensure that it is carried out in accordance with this chapter
and the LWRP.
§ 225-7. Enforcement. . •
No work or activity on a project in the village which is subject to review under this chapter shall
be commenced or undertakeri until the Village Engineer has been presented with a written
determinatiori of consistency from the lead agency except for direct actions. In the event that an
activity is not being performed in accordance with this chapter or any condition imposed
thereunder, the Village Engineer shall issue a stop-work order, and all work shall immediately
cease. No further work or a'ctivity shall be undertaken on the project so long as a stop-work order
is in effect.

§ 225-8. Penalties for offenses.
A. A. person who violates any of the proyisions of or who fails to comply with any condition
imposed by this chapter shall have committed a violation, punishable by a fine. For the puipose
of conferring jurisdiction upon courts and judicial officers, each week of continuing violation
shall constitute a separate additional yiolation.
.

B. The Village Attomey is authorized and directed to institute any and all actions and
proceedings necessary to enforce this chapter. Any civil penalty shall be in addition to and not in
lieu of any criminal prosecution and penalty.

§ 225-9. Severability

.• . .

If any provision pf this chapter shall be held for any reason to be invalid, such determination
shall not invalidate any other provision hereof
§ 225-10. When Effective
,

' '

- -'

.

.

-

,

'

•

This chapter shall take effect inmiediately filing with the office ofthe Secretary of State.

,1

b.
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the
following resolution adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York; with a 5-0 vote.
, '

'

WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees is considering taking an action to adopt Local
Law Introductory No. 8 of 2015 (the "Draft Law") to amend Chaptel- 225 Waterfront
revitalization to streamline procedures for obtaining a consistency review with the
Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (the "Proposed Action"); and
WHEREAS, on June 22, 2015 the Village declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes in connection with the Proposed Action; and
WHEREAS, on September 8, 2015 the Village Board issued a Negative Declaration in
connection with the Proposed Action; and
WHEREAS, on October 5, 2015 the Village Board determined that the Proposed Action
complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on October 5, 2015,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees adopts Local
Law No. 8 of 2015 to amend Chapter 225 Waterfront Revitalization to streamline
procedures for obtaining a consistency review with the Village's Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program.
Dated: October 5, 2015; • '

State of New York

•

,)

ss:
County of Westchester

••

)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy ofan original on file in my
office and has been diily adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Tmstees of said Village held
on October 5*, 2015.
JN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 09"^ day of October, 2015.

VUMgeClerk
'(Seal)'''"^"^'
. ^'-\^

i-i^\


