---
title: "LL 8-2019: A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2019-08-23
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 8-2019: A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-08-23
---

Local Law 8-2019
Filed: 2019-08-23
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, BY ADDING NEW PROVISIONS FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Wastiington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. d 0 s. state, ny, u s/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being elir^ated and dp-fiot use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
"
•-''^ FILED
STATERECORDS
• C o u n t y n C i t y D T o w n |X|Village
•
^ —
(Selectone:)

^

2 2

;

g g p A m - M E N T O F STATE

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.
A local law

08

of the year 20^9

TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON(Insert Title}

HUDSON, BY ADDING NEW PROVISIONS FOR SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEIVIS

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

DCity

DTown

^Village

(Select one')

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 9-2019
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 230 ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, BY ADDING NEW PROVISIONS FOR SOLAR
ENERGY SYSTEMS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-4 is hereby amended to add the following new definitions:
BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
A combination of Solar Panels and Solar Energy Equipment integrated into any building
envelope system such as vertical facades, semitransparent skylight systems, roofing materials, or
shading over windows, which produce electricity for onsite consumption.
GLARE
The effect by reflections of light with intensity sufficient as determined in a commercially
reasonable manner to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility
in any material respects.
GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
A Solar Energy System that is anchored to the ground via a pole or other mounting system,
detached from any other structure, that generates electricity for onsite or offsite consumpfion.
POLLINATOR
Bees, birds, bats, and other insects or wildlife that pollinate flowering plants, and includes both
wild and managed insects.
ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
A Solar Energy System located on the roof of any legally permitted building or structure that
produces electricity for onsite or offsite consumption, and including solar canopies over parking
areas.
SOLAR ACCESS
Space open to the sun and clear of overhangs or shade so as to permit the use of active and/or
passive Solar Energy Systems on individual properties.
SOLAR ENERGY EQUIPMENT
Electrical material, hardware, inverters, conduit, storage devices, or other electrical and
photovoltaic equipment associated with the production of electricity.

SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM
The components and subsystems required to convert solar energy into electric energy suitable for
use. The term includes, but is not limited to, Solar Panels and Solar Energy Equipment. The area
of a Solar Energy System includes all the land inside the perimeter ofthe Solar Energy System,
which extends to any interconnection equipment. A Solar Energy System is classified as a Tier 1,
Tier 2, or Tier 3 Solar Energy System as follows.
A. Tier 1 Solar Energy Systems include the following:
a. Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems
b. Building-Integrated Solar Energy Systems
B. Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems include Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems where
the total surface area of all Solar Panels on the lot does not exceed 1800 square feet.
C. Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems are systems that are not included in the list for Tier 1 and
Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems.
SOLAR PANEL
A photovoltaic device capable of collecting and converting solar energy into electricity.
STORAGE DEVICE
A battery or other technology that stores energy and makes it available in an electrical form.
Section Two. Secfion 230-9.1.A is amended to add new subsection 230-9.1A(9) as follows:
(9) Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems, subject to the issuance of a Special Permit by the Board of
Trustees, provided that the requirements set forth in Section 230-48.1 are met.
Section Three. Secfion 230-9.l.A(IO) is amended to add new subsecfion 230-9.lA(10)(i) as
follows:
(i) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems.
Section Four. Section 230-lO.A is amended to read as follows:
A. Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the regulations
therefor, except for Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems, and with the exception that the sum of all areas
covered by all principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed 25% of the area of the lot.
Section Five. Section 230-11 .A is amended to read as follows:
A. Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the regulations
therefor, except for Tier 2 and Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems, and with the exception that the sum
of all areas covered by all principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed 35% of the area of
the lot.

Section Six. Section 230-I2.A is amended to read as follows:
A. Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the regulations
therefor, except for Tier 2 and Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems, and with the exception that the sum
of all areas covered by all principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed 40% of the area of
the lot.
Section Seven. Section 230-13.A is amended to read as follows:
A. Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the regulations
therefor, except for Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems, and with the exception that the sum of all areas
covered by all principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed 40%i of the area of the lot.

Section Eight. Section 230-l5.B.(l) is amended to add new subsection 230-15.B(l)(c) as
follows:
(c) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems as an accessory use.
Section Nine. Section 230-16.A is amended to add new subsection 230-16.A(10) as follows:
(10) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems as an accessory use.
Section Ten. Section 230-17.B is amended to add new subsection 230-17.6(9) as follows:
(9) Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems, provided that the requirements set forth in Section 230-48.1 are
met.
Section Eleven. Section 230-18.C is amended to add new subsection 230-18.C(8) as follows:
(8) Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems, provided that the requirements set forth in Section 230-48.1 are
met.
Section Twelve. Section 230-18.G is amended to add new subsection 230-18.G(9) as follows:
(9) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems.
Section Thirteen.
follows:

Section 230-19.B. is amended to add new subsection 230-19.6(2.1) as

(2.1) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems as an accessory use.
Section Fourteen. Section 230-20.D is amended to add new subsection 230-20.D(4) as follows:
(4) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems.

Section Fifteen. Section 230-22.E is amended to add new subsection 230-22.E(4) as follows:
(4) Tier 1 and Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems.
Section Sixteen. New Section 230-48.1 Solar Energy Systems is added to read as follows:
230-48.1 Solar Energy Systems
A. Authority
These provisions for Solar Energy Systems are adopted pursuant to sections 7-700 through 7-704
of the Village Law and section 20 of the Municipal Home Rule Law of the State ofNew York,
which authorize the Village to adopt zoning provisions that advance and protect the health,
safety and welfare of the community, and, in accordance with the Village law ofNew York
State, "to make provision for, so far as condifions may permit, the accommodation of solar
energy systems and equipment and access to sunlight necessary therefor."
B. Purpose
This Solar Energy Local Law is adopted to advance and protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of Village of Croton-on-Hudson, including:
(1) Taking advantage of a safe, abundant, renewable, and non-polluting energy resource;
(2) Decreasing the cost of energy to the owners of commercial and residential properties,
including single-family houses; and
(3) Increasing employment and business development in the region by furthering the installation
of Solar Energy Systems.
(4) Decreasing the use of fossil fuels, thereby reducing the carbon footprint ofthe Village of
Croton-on-Hudson;
(5) Diversifying energy resources to decrease dependence on the grid;
C. Applicability
(1) The requirements of this Section shall apply to all Solar Energy Systems permitted, installed,
or modified in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson after the effective date of this Local Law,
excluding general maintenance and repair.
(2) Solar Energy Systems constructed or installed prior to the effective date of this Local Law
shall not be required to meet the requirements of this Local Law.
(3) Modifications to an existing Solar Energy System that increase the Solar Energy System area
by more than 5 % of the original area of the Solar Energy System (exclusive of moving any
fencing) shall be subject to the provisions hereof

(4) All Solar Energy Systems shall be designed, erected, and installed in accordance with all
applicable codes, regulations, and industry standards as referenced in the NYS Uniform Fire
Prevention and Building Code ("Building Code"), the NYS Energy Conservafion Code ("Energy
Code"), and the Village Code.
D. General Requirements
(1) A Building permit shall be required for installation of all Solar Energy Systems.
(2) All Village boards are encouraged to condition their approval of proposed developments on
sites adjacent to Solar Energy Systems so as to protect their access to sufficient sunlight to
remain economically feasible over time.
E. Permitting Requirements for Tier 1 Solar Energy Systems
All Tier 1 Solar Energy Systems shall be permitted in all zoning districts as an accessory use,
subject to the following conditions for each type of Solar Energy Systems:
(1) Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems
(a) Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems shall incorporate, when feasible, the following
design requirements:
i. Roof-Mounted Solar Panels must be attached to a lawfully permitted building
or structure, which may be an accessory structure.
ii. All Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Systems shall be subject to the maximum
height regulations specified for principal and accessory buildings within the
underlying zoning district, with the height exemptions as provided for building
mounted mechanical devices or equipment.
iii. Glare: All Solar Panels shall have anti-reflective coafing(s).
(2) Building-Integrated Solar Energy Systems shall be shown on the plans submitted for the
building permit application for the building containing the system.
F. Permitting Requirements for Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems
All Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems shall be permitted in all zoning districts except the RA-5 and
RA-9 zoning districts as accessory structures, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Glare: All Solar Panels shall have anti-reflective coating(s).
(2) Setbacks: Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems shall be subject to the setback regulations specified
for the accessory structures within the underlying zoning district, except that they shall be
setback no less than 10' from any property line. In RA and RB zoning districts all GroundMounted Solar Energy Systems shall only be installed in the side or rear yards.

(3) Height: Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems shall be subject to the height limitations specified for
accessory structures within the underlying zoning district.
(4) Screening and Visibility.
(a) All Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems shall have views minimized from adjacent
properties to the extent reasonably practicable.
(b) Solar Energy Equipment shall be located in a manner to reasonably avoid and/or
minimize blockage of views from surrounding properties and shading of property to
the north, while still providing adequate solar access.
(5) Lot Size: Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems shall comply with the existing lot size requirement
specified for accessory structures within the underlying zoning district.
(6) Lot Coverage. The surface area covered by Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems shall be included in
the total lot coverage permitted within the underlying zoning district.
G. Permitting requirements for Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems
All Tier 3 Solar Energy Systems are permitted through the issuance of a special use permit
within RA-40, RA-60, C-2 and LI zoning districts, and subject to site plan application
requirements set forth in this Section.
(1) Applications for the installation of Tier 3 Solar Energy System shall be reviewed by the
Building Inspector or Village Engineer for completeness and then referred with comments to the
Board of Trustees, which will then refer the application to the Planning Board. Applicants shall
be advised ofthe completeness of their application or any deficiencies that must be addressed
prior to substantive review.
(2) Special Use Permit Application Requirements. For a special permit application, the site plan
application is to be used as supplemented by the following provisions.
(a) If the property ofthe proposed project is to be leased, legal consent of all parties,
specifying the use(s) of the land for the duration of the project, including easements and
other agreements, shall be submitted.
(b) Plans showing the layout of the Solar Energy System signed by a Professional
Engineer or Registered Architect.
(c) A one- or three-line electrical diagram detailing the Solar Energy System layout,
solar collector installation, associated components, and electrical interconnection
methods, with all National Electrical Code compliant discormects and over current
devices.

(d) A preliminary equipment specification sheet that documents all proposed solar panels,
significant components, mounting systems, and inverters that are to be installed. A fmal
equipment specification sheet shall be submitted prior to the issuance of building permit.

(e) Property Operation and Maintenance Plan. Sueh plan shall describe continuing
photovoltaic maintenance and property upkeep, such as mowing and trimming.
(f) Any application under this Section shall meet any substantive provisions contained in
the Site Plan and Special Permit secfions of this Code, as, in the judgment of the Planning
Board, are applicable to the system being proposed.
(g) The Plarming Board or Board of Trustees may impose conditions on its approval of
any special use permit under this Section in order to enforce the standards referred to in
this Section or in order to discharge its obligations under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA).
(h) Decommissioning Plan.
A decommissioning plan generally in a form to be provided by the Village and signed by
the owner and/or operator ofthe solar energy system shall be submitted by the applicant
as part of the special permit application, addressing the following:
i. The cost of removing the solar energy system.
ii. The time required to decommission and remove the solar energy system and
any ancillary structures.
iii. The time required to repair any damage caused to the property by the
installation and removal ofthe solar energy system.
iv. A tree restoration plan, restoring the decommissioned area to a condition
similar to the condition that existed prior to the installation, recognizing that
mature plantings cannot be easily relocated, the Planning Board may exercise
discretion in determining the number, caliper, type and location of plantings in
reviewing any such plan, but all plantings shall be native noninvasive species.
(3) Special Use Permit Standards.
(a) Height and Setback. Large-Scale Solar Energy Systems shall adhere to the height and
setback requirements of the underlying zoning district.
(b) Lot Size. Large-Scale Energy Systems shall be located on lots with a minimum lot
size of 4 acres.
(c) Lot Coverage.

i. The following components of a Tier 3 Solar Energy System shall be considered
included in the calculations for lot coverage requirements:
a. Foundation systems, typically consisting of driven piles or monopoles
or helical screws with or without small concrete collars.
b. All mechanical equipment of the Solar Energy System, including any
pad mounted structure for batteries, switchboard, transformers, or storage
cells.
c. Paved access roads servicing the Solar Energy System.
ii. Lot coverage of the Solar Energy System, as defined above, shall not exceed
the maximum lot coverage requirement of the underlying zoning district.
(d) Fencing. All mechanical equipment, including any structure for storage batteries, shall
be enclosed by a fence, as required by NEC, with a self-locking gate to prevent
unauthorized access. Warning signs with the owner or operator's contact information
shall be placed on the entrance and perimeter of the fencing. The type and height of
fencing shall be determined as part ofthe site plan and special permit review. The fencing
and the system may be further screened by any landscaping needed to avoid adverse
aesthetic impacts.
(e) Lighting. Lighting ofthe Solar Energy Systems shall be limited to that minimally
required for safety and operational purposes and shall be reasonably shielded and
downcast from abutting properties.
(f) Tree-cutting. Tree removal shall be subject to the permit requirements of Chapter 208.
(g) Underground Requirements. All on-site utility lines shall be placed underground to
the extent feasible and as permitted by the serving utility, with the exception of the main
service connection at the utility company right-of-way and any new interconnection
equipment, including without limitafion any poles, with new easements and right-of-way.
(h) Vehicular Paths. Vehicular paths within the site shall be designed to minimize the
extent of impervious materials and soil compaction.
(i) Signage.
i. No signage or graphic content shall be displayed on the Solar Energy Systems
except the manufacturer's name, equipment specification information, safety
information, and 24-hour emergency contact information.

ii. As required by Nafional Electric Code (NEC), discormect and other emergency
shutoff information shall be clearly displayed on a light reflective surface. A clearly
visible warning sign concerning voltage shall be placed at the base of all padmounted transformers and substations.
(j) Glare. All Solar Panels shall have anti-reflective coating(s).
(k) Screening and Visibility.
i. Solar Energy Systems smaller than 10 acres shall have views minimized from
adjacent properties to the extent reasonably practicable using architectural
features, earth berms, landscaping, or other screening methods that will
harmonize with the character of the property and surrounding area.
ii. Solar Energy Systems larger than 10 acres shall be required to:
a. Conduct a visual assessment of the visual impacts of the Solar Energy
System on public roadways and adjacent properties. At a minimum, a lineof-sight profile analysis shall be provided. Depending upon the scope and
potential significance of the visual impacts, additional impact analyses,
including for example a digital viewshed report, may be required to
submitted by the applicant.
b. Submit a screening & landscaping plan to show adequate measures to
screen through landscaping, grading, or other means so that views of Solar
Panels and Solar Energy Equipment shall be minimized as reasonably
practical from public roadways and adjacent properties to the extent
feasible. The screening & landscaping plan shall specify the locations,
elevations, height, plant species, and/or materials that will comprise the
structures, landscaping, and/or grading used to screen and/or mitigate any
adverse aesthetic effects of the system, following the applicable rules and
standards established by the Village.
(1) Conditions.
The following shall be conditions of all Special Permits issued for Tier 3 Solar Energy
Systems.
i. Ovmership Changes. If the owner or operator of the Solar Energy System
changes or the owner of the property changes, the special use permit shall remain
in effect, provided that the successor owner or operator assumes in writing all of
the obligations of the special use permit, site plan approval, and decommissioning
plan. A new owner or operator of the Solar Energy System shall notify the zoning
enforcement officer of such change in ownership or operator within 30 days ofthe
ownership change.

ii. Solar Energy Systems that have been abandoned as reasonably determined by
the Building Inspector for a period of one year shall be removed at the owner's
and/or operator's expense in accordance with the decommissioning plan.
iii. Lien. In the event of default of the owner or operator in the performance of
removal of a Solar Energy System and/or complying with the requirements of the
decommissioning plan, after proper notice, the Village shall be entitled to arrange
for removal or decommissioning and restoration of the property in accordance
with the decommissioning plan and the cost of same incurred by the Village shall
constitute a lien on the owner's real property.
H. Safety
(1) Solar Energy Systems and Solar Energy Equipment shall be certified under the
applicable electrical and/or building codes as required.
(2) Solar Energy Systems shall be maintained in good working order and in accordance
with industry standards. Site access shall be maintained, including snow removal at a
level acceptable to the local fire department and, if the Tier 3 Solar Energy System is
located in an ambulance district, the local ambulance coips.
(3) If Storage Batteries are included as part of the Solar Energy System, they shall meet
the requirements of any applicable fire prevention and building code when in use and,
when no longer used, shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws and regulations of
the Village and any applicable federal, state, or county laws or regulations.
Section Seventeen. Section 230-67.A is amended to add new subsection 230-67.A(4) as foUows:
(4) Tier 2 Solar Energy Systems except where located on a residential lot in the RA and RB
zoning districts.
Section Eighteen. Section 230-67.B is amended to add new subsection 230-67.B(5) as follows:
(5) Roof -Mounted Solar Energy Systems except where located on a residential structure in the
RA and RB zoning districts.
Section Nineteen. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.

Section Twenty. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strilte out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ^'9'^'^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on ^^Q^^^ 12
202^^

of 2 0 l 2
of
^j^,y passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

(Name of Legislative Body)

provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as loca! law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City){Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
.
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer)

on

3.

—

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) bythe

on

20

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City){Town)(Village) of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of

.

^

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
iaw was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

-

.

, In accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chiief Executive Officer means or includes ttie chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a towr\ where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev, 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
,, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office^ndihat the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adpgtg^in the rnart^er indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
Clerk oftb^ounty legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officep^signated by local legislative body
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 ot 4

On motion of TRUSTEE OLVER, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York; with the following vote: 5-0.
Resolution #120-2019
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend the Zoning Chapter of the
Village Code to regulate the installation of solar arrays in ceitain zoning
districts; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2019 has been drafted to
amend the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on July 22, 2019,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of
Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2019 amending the
Zoning Chapter ofthe ViUage Code to regulate the installation of solar
arrays in certain zoning districts, which upon adoption becomes Local Law 8
of2019.
Dated: August 12,2019

State of New York

]
ss:

County of Westchester

)

1, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on
file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of
said Village held on August 12, 2019.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village this 16'^^ day of August 2019.

''illage Clerk
[SeaJ]


