---
title: "LL 9-2024: TO AMENDING CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON REGARDING"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2024-07-12
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 9-2024: TO AMENDING CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON REGARDING"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-07-12
---

Local Law 9-2024
Filed: 2024-07-12
TO AMENDING CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON REGARDING THE CREATION OF AN ON STREET RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT SYSTEM

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. dos. state. ny. us/co rps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being e l i m i n ^ ^ and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
STATE RECORDS
•County

nCity

DTown

|X|Village

JUL l^^O^^

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.
A local law

USPARTMSNT

STAT6

of the year 2024

09

TO AMENDING CHAPTER CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING THE CREATION OF AN ON-STREET
RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT SYSTEM

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name ofLegislalive Body)

•County

•City

DTown

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
L O C A L LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 09-2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE V I L L A G E OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON REGARDING THE CREATION OF AN ON-STREET
RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT SYSTEM
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Tmstees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Article X, Residential Parking Permit System, of Chapter 215 entitied "Vehicles and
Traffic" ofthe Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
Article X. Residential Parking Permit System.
§ 215-72. Purpose, intent and findings.
The Board of Trustees hereby finds that a residential parking permit system in certain areas of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson is necessary in order to preserve the character of the neighborhoods,
improving access to residences and parking for residents, and reducing traffic hazards, congestion,
and air and noise pollution detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of its residents. The Board
of Tmstees sought state legislation authorizing the creation of an on-street parking permit system for
residents of Hastings Avenue and Young Avenue, which legislation was adopted and became
effective on October 7, 2020, and codified in the New York State Vehicle and Traffic Law as § 1640q. The Board of Tmstees sought further state legislation authorizing the creation of an on-street
parking permit system for residents of Cedar Lane, Nordica Drive, Old Post Road South and
Tmesdale Drive, which legislation was adopted and became effective on September 15, 2023, and
was added to the New York State Vehicle and Traffic Law as § 1640-q.
§ 215-73 Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise:
CROTON RIVER RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREA
Consisting of the following roadways on the following streets and sides of streets:
Name of Street

Side„

Location

Cedar Lane

Both

Entire length

Nordica Drive

Both

Between Tmesdale Drive and a point 450 feet south of
Cedar Lane

Truesdale Drive Both
RESIDENT

Between Cedar Lane and its northeasterly terminus.

An individual currently residing within the parking area based on the submission of adequate
documentation in accordance with the provisions of this article.
HARMON RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT AREA
Consisting of the following roadways on the following streets and sides of streets:
Name of Street

Sider;,:

|-V

t^'

Location:'^

-

.

• .1

Hastings Avenue Both

Between Benedict Boulevard and Devon Avenue.

Young Avenue

Between Oneida Avenue and Benedict Boulevard.

Both

§ 215-74 Designation of permit parking areas in Harmon; permit required; hours.
A. A residential parking permit system is hereby establisUed witUin the Harmon residential parking
permit area, as defined herein.
B.

Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall park a vehicle, nor allow a vehicle to be
parked at any time, Monday through Friday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.,
excluding holidays, along any street that has been designated as the Harmon residential parking
permit area pursuant to this article, unless the vehicle displays a valid parking permit issued in
accordance with this article.

C.

A permitted vehicle issued a permit shall have affixed a valid residential parking permit to eitUer
its rear windshield or its rear bumper, or such other location on the vehicle as the Village
Manager or their designee may determine.

§ 215-75 Designation of permit parking areas near the Croton River; permit required; hours.
A. A residential parking permit system is hereby established within the Croton River residential
parking permit area, as defined herein.
B.

Except as otherwise provided herein, no person shall park a vehicle, nor allow a vehicle to be
parked at any time, Saturdays, Sundays and hoUdays, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m., from Memorial Day through Labor Day, along any street that has been designated as the
Croton River residential parking permit area pursuant to this article, unless the vehicle displays
a valid parking permit issued in accordance with this article.

C.

A permitted vehicle issued a pennit shall have affixed a valid residential parking permit to either
its rear windshield or its rear bumper, or such other location on the vehicle as the Village
Manager or their designee may determine.

§ 215-76 Issuance of residential parking permits.
A. Upon application and payment of the applicable fee, any person who is a resident and who meets
the appUcable requirements of this article shall be issued by the Village Manager or their
designee one valid parking permit for each vehicle registered in the applicant's name. The
ViUage Manager or their designee shall establish guidelines to issue parking permits, including
proof of residency.

B.

Permits issued under this article shall be specific to a single vehicle, shall not be transferred,
and shall be displayed only as the Village Manager or their designee prescribes. The permittee
shall immediately notify the Village of any change or amendment from the information
contained in the original appUcation.

C.

If the permit or portion of the vehicle to which a permit has been affixed is damaged such that
it must be replaced, the permittee, upon application therefor, shall be issued a replacement. The
Manager or their designee may require display of the damaged permit before a new permit is
issued.

§215-77 Fees.
A.

The fees for residential parking permits shall be set by resolution by the Board of Trustees from
time to time.

B.

The fees collected pursuant to this article shall be credited to the general fund of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson.

§ 215-78 Nonresident parking exception.
A. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, vehicles without a permit issued pursuant to
this article may be parked within the Harmon Residential Parking Permit Area for a period not
in excess of four hours.
B. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, not less than 20% of all spaces within the Croton
River Residential Parking Permit Area will be designated as available to nonresidents as shortterm parking of not less than 90 minutes in duration.
§ 215-79 Temporary parking.
There shall be temporary parking permits available for residents who have a houseguest, babysitter,
caretaker, contractor, service provider, or other visitor come to their home for a temporary period of
time. Temporary parking permits, not to exceed three days in length, shall be issued by the Village
Manager or their designee when sufficient off-street parking is not available at the residence. The
temporary parking permit shall be placed on the vehicle dashboard, or such other location as the
Village Manager or their designee may determine.
§215-80 Exemptions.
Motor vehicles registered pursuant to § 404-a of the New York State Vehicle and Traffic Law shall
be exempt from any permit requirement established pursuant to this chapter.
§215-81 Conflicts.
To the extent that the provisions in this article conflict with any other provisions in Chapter 215, the
provisions herein control.
§ 215-82 Penalties for offenses.
Any person violating any provisions of this article of this chapter may, upon conviction, be punished
by a fine as detailed in § 215-30.
Section Two. Severability. If any section, subsection, clause, pUrase or other portion of this Local
3

Law is, for any reason, declared invaUd, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, conimission,
legislative body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate
distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three, Effective Date. This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the
Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 5?
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

on June 12

of 2 o 2 1 _ of
^^^jy p^^^^^

20^4

, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive OfRcer*)
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(specia!)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affinnative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20_
„ , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuantto subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopledLLathe manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
of the coqnty^legtslati^e'pcdyrClty. Town or Village Clerk or
'officer desionatedoy local legislaiive
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

/cP

Date:/^

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #108-2024
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has seen an increase in visitors to the
Croton River area along Cedar Lane, Nordica Drive and Truesdale Drive over the
past decade, and
WHEREAS the increase in visitors has put a strain on the resources of the Crotonon-Hudson Police Department, who must respond to issues such as parking
violations, trespassing and swimmers in distress, and
WHEREAS the Village has sought to respond to this increase by implementing
parking restrictions on the aforementioned streets on weekends and holidays during
the summer months, and
WHEREAS these parking restrictions have helped to abate the problems in the
neighborhood, but inconvenienced the residents, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has sought home rule legislation since
2019 to implement a residential parking permit system in the Croton River area, and
WHEREAS in 2023, the state legislature passed a bill to pennit the residenrial
parking system, which was signed into law by Govemor Kathy Hochul on
September 15, 2023, and
WHEREAS, since that time, the Village Board has sought comments from, and
listened to, the residents of the Croton River area as well as residents who use
Mayo's Landing and Silver Lake Park for recreational activities, and
WHEREAS the Village would now like to amend Chapter 215 of the Village Code,
Vehicles and Traffic, to implement a residential parking permit system along certain
portions of Cedar Lane, Nordica Drive and Truesdale Drive, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2024 has been drafted for such
purposes, and

WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 8 of 2024, which was opened and closed on June 12, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 8 of2024, amending Chapter 215 of the Village
Code, Vehicles and Traffic, to implement a residential parking permit system along
certain portions of Cedar Lane, Nordica Drive and Truesdale Drive, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 9 of 2024.
Dated: June 12, 2024

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I , Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 12* of June 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said Village tl^s^6^M^y of June 2024.
Village-Clerk
(Seal)


