---
title: "LL 9-2023: TO AMEND CHAPER 215, VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC, UPDATING PARKING FINES AND PENALTIES"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law (superseded)
date: 2023-06-28
status: historical
---

---
title: "Local Law 9-2023: TO AMEND CHAPER 215, VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC, UPDATING PARKING FINES AND PENALTIES"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-06-28
---

Local Law 9-2023
Filed: 2023-06-28
TO AMEND CHAPER 215, VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC, UPDATING PARKING FINES AND PENALTIES

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. dos. state. ny. us/co rps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
STAT'- - ' •' '
• C o u n t y n C i t y Q T o w n [X}Village

JUN 2 8 2023

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.

of the year 2023

09

A local law *° Q"^®'^'^ Chapter 215, Vehicles and Traffic, updating parking fines and penalties
(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

QTown

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 9 OF 2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VH^LAGE OF CROTONON-HUDSON REGARDING PARKING FINES AND PENALTIES
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 215, Vehicles and Traffic, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
§215-30, is hereby amended to read as follows:
§215-30 Parking fines and penalties.
A. Fire lanes, fire hydrants and handicapped parking areas. Any person who violates the
parking regulations of the Village pertaining to fire lanes, parking within 15 feet trom fire
hydrants and designated areas for handicapped persons shall be liable to a fine of not less
than $280.
B. Any person who violates the regulations as prescribed in § 215-29, Seasonal parking, shall
be subject to a fine of not less than $100.
C. Any person who violates the regulations as prescribed in § 215-28, Bicycle lanes, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $50.
D. Any person who violates the parking regulations in the Croton Harmon Train Station, shall
be subject to a fine of not less than $40.
E. Any person who violates the regulations as prescribed in § 215-20.1, Restrictions on idling
of motor vehicles, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $35.
F. Any person who violates any other of the parking regulations of the Village shall be liable
to afineof not less than $25.
G. Parking fines shall be subject to doubling upon failure to pay within 30 days after the date
of issuance; shall be subject to increase by another $20 upon failure to pay within 60 days
after the date of issuance; and shall be subject to increase by another $20 upon failure to
pay within 90 days after the date of issuance.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.

Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1, (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 5?
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

on -^u^^e 12

of 2 0 ^ ^
of
y^,as ^^jy passed by the

20^2

. in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
f£/ect)Ve Chief Executive Officer*)
or

3.

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

.

of 20

^
on

of

was duly passed by the
20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20_

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if ttiere
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the alfirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
,, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that 1 have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
islative body. City, Town or Village Cierkjor
local legislative body p j ^ l c U ^ K ^ £ ) / S * ^ ^ O r t ^
(Seal)

DOS--0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

r

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon- Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #125-2023
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to amend Chapter 215 of the
Village Code, Vehicles and Traffic, to update parking fines and penalties; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 was opened and
closed on June 12, 2023,
NOW, THEREFORE BE I T RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2023 amending Chapter 215, Vehicles and
Traffic, updating parking fines and penalties, which upon adoption becomes Local Law
9 of2023.
Dated: June 12,2023
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of
New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office
and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the
12*^' of June 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 16^^' day of June 2023.

Village^erk
(Seal)


