---
title: "Chapter 114: Energy Conservation"
chapter: 114
name: "Energy Conservation"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 0
---

ARTICLE I                                                 ARTICLE II
          Energize NY Benefit Financing Program                      Community Choice Aggregation (Energy)
                                                                                  Program
     § 114-1.             Legislative findings; intent and
                          purpose; authority.                     § 114-10.     Legislative findings; intent and
     § 114-2.             Definitions.                                          purpose; authority.
     § 114-3.             Establishment of Energize NY            § 114-11.     Definitions.
                          Benefit Financing Program.              § 114-12.     Establishment of a Community
     § 114-4.             Procedures for eligibility.                           Choice Aggregation (Energy)
     § 114-5.             Application criteria.                                 Program.
     § 114-6.             Opt-in, Energize NY finance             § 114-13.     Procedures for eligibility;
                          agreement.                                            customer data sharing.
     § 114-7.             Energy audit; renewable energy          § 114-14.     Choice of energy supplier; opt-
                          system feasibility study.                             out notice and procedure.
     § 114-8.             Terms and conditions of                 § 114-15.     Verification and reporting.
                          repayment.
     § 114-9.             Verification and report.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as indicated in
     article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]


                                                    ARTICLE I
                                      Energize NY Benefit Financing Program
                         [Adopted 2-19-2013 by L.L. No. 2-2013; 1-2-2018 by L.L. No. 1-2018]

     § 114-1. Legislative findings; intent and purpose; authority.

     A.    It is the policy of both the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the State of New York to achieve energy
           efficiency and renewable energy goals, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, mitigate the effect of global
           climate change, and advance a clean energy economy. The Village finds that it can fulfill this policy
           by providing property-assessed clean energy financing to property owners for the installation of
           renewable energy systems and energy efficiency measures. This chapter establishes a program that
           will allow the Energy Improvement Corporation (EIC), a local development corporation, acting on
           behalf of the Village, pursuant to the municipal agreement to be entered into between the Village and
           EIC pursuant to Article 5-G of the New York General Muncipal Law (the municipal agreement), to
           make funds available to qualified property owners that will be repaid by such property owners
           through charges on the real properties benefited by such funds, thereby fulfilling the purposes of this
           article and fulfilling an important public purpose.

     B.    The Village of Croton-on-Hudson is authorized to implement this Energize NY Benefit Financing
           Program pursuant to the Municipal Home Rule Law and Article 5-L of the New York General
           Municipal Law.

     C.    This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Energize NY Benefit Financing Program Law of
           the Village of Croton-on-Hudson."

     § 114-2. Definitions.

     For purposes of this article, and unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the context requires, the
     following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     AUTHORITY — The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, as defined by
     Subdivision two of § 1851 of the Public Authorities Law, or its successor.
     EIC — The Energy Improvement Corporation, a local development corporation, duly organized under
     § 1411 of the Not-For-Profit Corporation Law, authorized hereby on behalf of the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson to implement the Energize NY Benefit Financing Program by providing funds to qualified property
     owners (as defined in this article) and providing for repayment of such funds from monies collected by
     the Village Tax Collecting Officer as a charge to be levied on the real property and collected in the same
     manner and same form as the Village taxes.
     ENERGY AUDIT — A formal evaluation or assessment of the energy consumption of a permanent
     building or structural improvement to real property, conducted by a contractor certified by the Authority, or
     certified by a certifying entity approved by the Authority, for the purpose of identifying appropriate energy
     efficiency improvements that could be made to the property.
     ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT — Any renovation or retrofitting of a building to reduce
     energy consumption, such as window and door replacement, lighting, caulking, weatherstripping, air
     sealing, insulation, and heating and cooling system upgrades, and similar improvements, determined to
     be cost effective pursuant to criteria established by the Authority, not including lighting measures or
     household appliances that are not permanently fixed to real property.
     QUALIFIED PROPERTY OWNER — An owner of residential or commercial real property located within
     the boundaries of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson that is determined to be eligible to participate in the


     Energize NY Benefit Financing Program under the procedures for eligibility set forth under this article.
     RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM — An energy-generating system for the generation of electric or
     thermal energy, to be used primarily at such property, except when the qualified property owner is
     a commercial entity, in which case the system may be used for other properties in addition to the
     subject property, by means of solar thermal, solar photovoltaic, wind, geothermal, anaerobic digester
     gas-to-electricity systems, fuel cell technologies, or other renewable energy technology approved by the
     Authority, not including the combustion or pyrolysis of solid waste.
     RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM FEASIBILITY STUDY — A written study, conducted by a
     contractor certified by the Authority, or certified by a certifying entity approved by the Authority, for the
     purpose of determining the feasibility of installing a renewable energy system.

     § 114-3. Establishment of Energize NY Benefit Financing Program.

     A.    An Energize NY Benefit Financing Program is hereby established by the Village of Croton-on-
           Hudson, whereby EIC, acting on its behalf pursuant to the municipal agreement, may provide funds
           to qualified property owners in accordance with the procedures set forth under this article, to finance
           the acquisition, construction and installation of renewable energy systems and energy efficiency
           improvements and the verification of the installation of such systems and improvements.

     B.    For funds provided to a qualified property owner which is a commercial entity, not-for-profit
           organization, or entity other than an individual, EIC shall have the authority to impose requirements
           on the maximum amount of funds to be provided, which may consider factors including but not
           limited to the property value, projected savings, project cost, and existing indebtedness secured by
           such property.

     C.    For financings made to a qualified property owner who is an individual, the funds provided shall not
           exceed the lesser of 10% percent of the appraised value of the real property where the renewable
           energy systems and/or energy efficiency improvements will be located, or the actual cost of installing
           the renewable energy systems and/or energy efficiency improvements, including the costs of
           necessary equipment, materials, and labor and the cost of verification of such systems and
           improvements.

     § 114-4. Procedures for eligibility.

     A.    Any property owner in the Village may submit an application to EIC on such forms as have been
           prepared by EIC and made available to property owners on the website of EIC and at the Village
           Clerk's offices.

     B.    Every application submitted by a property owner shall be reviewed by EIC acting on behalf of the
           Village, which shall make a positive or negative determination on such application based upon the
           criteria for making a financing enumerated in § 114-5 of this article. EIC may also request further
           information from the property owner where necessary to aid in its determination.

     C.    If a positive determination on an application is made by EIC acting on behalf of the Village, the
           property owner shall be deemed a qualified property owner and shall be eligible to participate in the
           Energize NY Benefit Financing Program in accordance with the procedure set forth under § 114-6 of
           this article; provided that in no case shall a property owner that has received funds from another
           municipal corporation for the acquisition, construction and installation of energy efficiency
           improvements and/or renewable energy systems be deemed a qualified property owner.


     § 114-5. Application criteria.

     Upon the submission of an application, EIC, acting on behalf of the Village, shall make a positive or
     negative determination on such application based upon the following criteria for the making of a financing:

     A.    The proposed energy efficiency improvements and/or renewable energy systems are determined to be
           cost effective based on guidelines issued by the Authority;

     B.    The property owner may not be in bankruptcy and the property may not constitute property subject to
           any pending bankruptcy proceeding;

     C.    The amount financed under the Energize NY Benefit Financing Program shall be repaid over a term
           not to exceed the weighted average of the useful life of renewable energy systems and energy
           efficiency improvements to be installed on the property as determined by EIC;

     D.    Sufficient funds are available from EIC to provide financing to the property owner;

     E.    The property owner is current in payments on any existing mortgage;

     F.    The property owner is current in payments on any existing real property taxes and has been current
           on real property taxes for the previous three years; and

     G.    Such additional criteria, not inconsistent with the criteria set forth above, as the Village, or EIC acting
           on its behalf, may set from time to time.

     § 114-6. Opt-in, Energize NY finance agreement.

     A.    A qualified property owner may participate in the Energize NY Benefit Financing Program through
           the execution of an Energize NY finance agreement made by and between the qualified property
           owner and EIC, acting on the behalf of the Village (the Energize NY Finance Agreement).

     B.    Upon execution of the Energize NY finance agreement, the qualified property owner shall be eligible
           to receive funds from EIC, acting on behalf of Village, for the acquisition, construction, and
           installation of qualifying renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements, provided
           the requirements of § 114-7 of this article have been met.

     C.    The Energize NY finance agreement shall include the terms and conditions of repayment set forth
           under § 114-8 of this article.

     § 114-7. Energy audit; renewable energy system feasibility study.

     A.    No funds shall be made available for energy efficiency improvements unless determined to be
           appropriate through an energy audit as defined in § 114-2.

     B.    No funds shall be made available for a renewable energy system unless determined to be feasible
           through a renewable energy system feasibility study as defined in § 114-2.

     C.    The cost of such energy audit and/or renewable energy system feasibility study shall be borne solely
           by the property owner but may be included in the financed amount if the work is approved.

     § 114-8. Terms and conditions of repayment.

     The Energize NY finance agreement between the qualified property owner and EIC, acting on behalf of
     the Village, shall set forth the terms and conditions of repayment in accordance with the following:


     A.    The principal amount of the funds paid to the qualified property owner hereunder, together with the
           interest thereon, shall be paid by the property owner as a charge on his or her property tax bill and
           shall be levied and collected at the same time and in the same manner as Village property taxes,
           provided that such charge shall be separately listed on the tax bill. The Village shall make payment
           to EIC or its designee in the amount of all such separately listed charges within 30 days of the date
           the payment is due to be made to Village.

     B.    The term of such repayment shall be determined at the time the Energize NY finance agreement is
           executed by the property owner and EIC, provided that in no case shall the term exceed the weighted
           average of the useful life of the systems and improvements as determined by EIC acting on behalf of
           the Village.

     C.    The rate of interest for the charge shall be fixed by EIC, acting on behalf of the Village, at the time
           the Energize NY finance agreement is executed by the property owner and EIC.

     D.    The charge shall constitute a lien upon the real property benefited by the Energize NY Benefit
           Financing Program as set forth in Article5-L of the General Municipal Law and shall run with the
           land. A transferee of title to the benefited real property shall be required to pay any future
           installments, including interest thereon.

     § 114-9. Verification and report.

     A.    EIC shall be responsible for verifying and reporting to the Village on the installation and performance
           of renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements financed by such program.

     B.    The Village shall verify and report on the installation and performance of renewable energy systems
           and energy efficiency improvements financed by the Energize NY Benefit Financing Program in such
           form and manner as the Authority may establish.


                                                    ARTICLE II
                                    Community Choice Aggregation (Energy) Program
                                        [Adopted 7-13-2015 by L.L. No. 5-2015]

     § 114-10. Legislative findings; intent and purpose; authority.

     A.    It is the policy of both the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the State of New York to reduce costs
           and provide cost certainty for the purpose of economic development, to promote deeper penetration
           of energy efficiency and renewable energy resources such as wind and solar, and wider deployment
           of distributed energy resources as well as to examine the retail energy markets and increase
           participation of and benefits for residential and small commercial customers in those markets. Among
           the policies and models that may offer benefits in New York is community choice aggregation, which
           allows local governments to determine the default supplier of electricity and natural gas on behalf of
           its residential and small commercial customers.

     B.    The purpose of this CCA Program is to allow participating local governments, including the Village
           of Croton-on-Hudson, to procure energy supply service for their residential and small commercial
           customers, who will have the opportunity to opt out of the procurement, while maintaining
           transmission and distribution service from the existing distribution utility. This article establishes a
           program that will allow the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to put out for bid the total amount of natural
           gas and/or electricity being purchased by local residential and small commercial customers. bundled
           customers will have the opportunity to have more control to lower their overall energy costs, to spur
           clean energy innovation and investment, to improve customer choice and value, and to protect the
           environment; thereby, fulfilling the purposes of this article and fulfilling an important public purpose.

     C.    The Village of Croton-on-Hudson is authorized to implement this Community Choice Aggregation
           (Energy) Program pursuant to Section 10(1)(ii)(a)(12) of the New York Municipal Home Rule Law;
           and State of New York Public Service Commission Case No. 14-M-0564, Petition of Sustainable
           Westchester for Expedited Approval for the Implementation of a Pilot Community Choice
           Aggregation Program within the County of Westchester, Order Granting Petition in Part (issued
           February 26, 2015) as may be amended, including subsequent orders of the Public Service
           Commission issued in connection with or related to Case No. 14-M-0564 (collectively, the "Order").
           Order shall also mean orders of the Public Service Commission related to State of New York Public
           Service Commission Case No. 14-M-0224, Proceeding on Motion of the Commission to Enable
           Community Choice Aggregation Programs (issued December 15, 2014) to the extent that orders
           related to Case No. 14-M-0224 enable actions by the Village not otherwise permitted pursuant to
           orders related to Case 14-M-0564; provided, however, that in the event of any conflict between orders
           from Case No. 14-M-0564 and orders from Case No. 14-M-0224, orders from Case No. 14-M-0564
           shall govern the CCA Program.

     D.    This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Community Choice Aggregation (Energy)
           Program Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson."

     § 114-11. Definitions.

     For purposes of this article, and unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the context otherwise requires,
     the terms in this article shall have the meanings employed in the State of New York Public Service
     Commission's Uniform Business Practices or, if not so defined there, as indicated below:
     BUNDLED CUSTOMERS — Residential and small commercial customers of electricity or natural gas
     ("fuels") who are purchasing the fuels from the distribution utility.


     COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION PROGRAM or CCA PROGRAM — A municipal energy
     procurement program, which replaces the incumbent utility as the default supplier for all bundled
     customers within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
     DISTRIBUTION UTILITY — Owner or controller of the means of distribution of the natural gas or
     electricity that is regulated by the Public Service Commission.
     PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION — New York State Public Service Commission.
     SMALL COMMERCIAL — Non-residential customers as permitted by the Order.
     SUPPLIERS — Energy service companies (ESCOs) that procure electric power and natural gas for
     bundled customers in connection with this article or, alternatively, generators of electricity and natural gas
     or other entities who procure and resell electricity or natural gas.
     SUSTAINABLE WESTCHESTER — A not-for-profit organization comprised of member municipalities
     in Westchester County, New York.

     § 114-12. Establishment of a Community Choice Aggregation (Energy) Program.

     A.    A Community Choice Aggregation (Energy) Program is hereby established by the Village of Croton-
           on-Hudson, whereby the Village shall work together with Sustainable Westchester to implement the
           CCA Program to the full extent permitted by the Order, as set forth more fully herein. The Village's
           role under the CCA Program involves the aggregating of the electric and/or natural gas supply of its
           residents and the entering into a contract with one or more suppliers for supply and services. Under
           the CCA Program, the operation and ownership of the utility service shall remain with the distribution
           utility.

     B.    The Village's participation in a CCA Program constitutes neither the purchase of a public utility
           system, nor the furnishing of utility service. The Village will not take over any part of the electric or
           gas transmission or distribution system and will not furnish any type of utility service, but will instead
           negotiate with suppliers on behalf of participating residential and small commercial customers.

     C.    In order to implement the CCA Program, the Village will adopt one or more resolutions that outline
           the process of and conditions for participation in the CCA Program, including but not limited to
           signing a contract for a compliant bid with one or more suppliers, all as consistent with the article and
           the Order.

     D.    The Public Service Commission supervises retail markets and participants in these markets through
           legislative and regulatory authority and the Uniform Business Practices, which includes rules relating
           to the eligibility of participating ESCOs, the operation by which ESCOs provide energy services, and
           the terms on which customers may be enrolled with ESCOs.

     § 114-13. Procedures for eligibility; customer data sharing.

     A.    As permitted by the Order, the Village may request from the Distribution Utilities aggregated
           customer information by fuel type and service classification on a rolling basis.

     B.    Sustainable Westchester, on behalf of the Village, shall issue one or more requests for proposals to
           suppliers to provide energy to participants and may then award a contract in accordance with the CCA
           Program.

     C.    Sustainable Westchester or the Village if the Village so chooses, will then request individual
           customer data from the distribution utility in accordance with the CCA Program.


     D.    Sustainable Westchester or the Village if the Village so chooses, and the selected supplier will then
           notify bundled customers of the contract terms and their opportunity to opt out of the CCA Program.

     E.    In accordance with and for purposes of the Order, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.
           will provide to Sustainable Westchester aggregate and customer-specific data (including usage data,
           capacity tag obligations, account numbers, and service addresses) of all bundled customers in the
           Village not currently enrolled with an ESCO.

     F.    Sustainable Westchester and the Village will protect customer information as required by law, subject
           to the Order and the limitations of the New York State Freedom of Information Law.

     § 114-14. Choice of energy supplier; opt-out notice and procedure.

     A.    The Village or in conjunction with the ESCO will notify its residential and small commercial
           customers, by letter notice, of the Village's decision to establish the CCA Program, of the contract
           terms with an ESCO, and of the opportunity to opt out of the CCA Program.

     B.    The letter notice will be sent to each customer at the address provided by the distribution utility and
           explain the CCA Program and the material provisions of the ESCO contract, identify the methods by
           which the customer can opt out of the CCA Program, and provide information on how the customer
           can access additional information about the CCA Program.

     C.    The opt-out period shall be twenty (20) days.

     D.    CCA Program bundled customers, upon enrollment, will receive a welcome letter that will explain
           the customers' options for canceling the enrollment if they believe they were enrolled incorrectly or
           otherwise decide to withdraw from the CCA Program in favor of another Supplier. The welcome
           letter also will explain that residential customers are entitled to the added protection of the mandated
           three-day rescission period as detailed in Section 5(B)(3) of the Uniform Business Practices.

     § 114-15. Verification and reporting.

     A.    Sustainable Westchester shall be responsible for filing an annual report with the Public Service
           Commission, which identifies the number of customers enrolled in the CCA Program by municipality
           and customer class, the number of customers who returned to utility service or service with another
           supplier during the reporting period, and the average cost of commodity supply by month for the
           reporting period.


     § 114-15                                      ENERGY CONSERVATION


                                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                                         § 115-1
