---
title: "Chapter 1: General Provisions"
chapter: 1
name: "General Provisions"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 0
---

ARTICLE I                             § 1-8.    Code book to be kept up-to-
                         Adoption of Code                                  date.
                                                                 § 1-9.    Sale of Code book;
     § 1-1.               Legislative intent.                              supplementation.
     § 1-2.               Continuation of existing               § 1-10.   Penalties for tampering with
                          provisions.                                      Code.
     § 1-3.               Repeal of enactments not               § 1-11.   Changes in previously adopted
                          included in Code.                                legislation.
     § 1-4.               Enactments saved from repeal;          § 1-12.   Penalties for offenses against
                          matters not affected.                            Code provisions.
     § 1-5.               Severability.                          § 1-13.   Definitions.
     § 1-6.               Copy of Code on file.                  § 1-14.   Incorporation of provisions into
     § 1-7.               Amendments to Code.                              Code.
                                                                 § 1-15.   When effective.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as indicated in
     article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]


                                                        ARTICLE I
                                                     Adoption of Code
                                            [Adopted 5-7-1990 as L.L. No. 2-1990]

     Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester, New
     York, as follows:


     § 1-1. Legislative intent.

     In accordance with Subdivision 3 of § 20 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, the local laws, ordinances
     and certain resolutions of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall be known collectively as the "Code of
     the Village of Croton-on-Hudson," hereafter termed the "Code." Wherever reference is made in any of the
     local laws, ordinances and resolutions contained in the "Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson" to any
     other local law, ordinance or resolution appearing in said Code, such reference shall be changed to the
     appropriate chapter title, chapter number, Article number or section number, as if such local law, ordinance
     or resolution had been formally amended to so read.

     § 1-2. Continuation of existing provisions.

     The provisions of the Code, insofar as they are substantively the same as those of local laws, ordinances
     and resolutions in force immediately prior to the enactment of the Code by this local law, are intended
     as a continuation of such local laws, ordinances and resolutions and not as new enactments, and the
     effectiveness of such provisions shall date from the date of adoption of the prior local law, ordinance or
     resolution. All such provisions are hereby continued in full force and effect and are hereby reaffirmed as to
     their adoption by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and it is the intention of said
     Board that each such provision contained within the Code is hereby reaffirmed as it appears in said Code.
     Only such provisions of former local laws and ordinances as are omitted from this Code shall be deemed
     repealed or abrogated by the provisions of § 1-3 below.

     § 1-3. Repeal of enactments not included in Code.

     All local laws and ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in
     force on the date of the adoption of this local law and not contained in such Code or recognized and
     continued in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the effective date of this local
     law.

     § 1-4. Enactments saved from repeal; matters not affected.

     The repeal of local laws and ordinances provided for in § 1-3 of this local law shall not affect the following
     classes of local laws, ordinances, rights and obligations, which are hereby expressly saved from repeal:

     A.      Any right or liability established, accrued or incurred under any legislative provision of the Village
             of Croton-on-Hudson prior to the effective date of this local law, or any action or proceeding brought
             for the enforcement of such right or liability.

     B.      An offense or act committed or done before the effective date of this local law in violation of any
             legislative provision of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, or any penalty, punishment or forfeiture
             which may result therefrom.

     C.      Any prosecution, indictment, action, suit or other proceeding pending, or any judgment rendered prior


             to the effective date of this local law, brought pursuant to any legislative provision of the Village of
             Croton-on-Hudson.

     D.      Any franchise, license, right, easement or privilege heretofore granted or conferred by the Village of
             Croton-on-Hudson.

     E.      Any local law or ordinance of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson providing for the laying out, opening,
             altering, widening, relocating, straightening, establishing grade, changing name, improvement,
             acceptance or vacation of any right-of-way, easement, street, road, highway, park or other public
             place within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or any portion thereof.

     F.      Any local law or ordinance of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson appropriating money or transferring
             funds, promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance and delivery of
             any bond of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or other instruments or evidence of the Village's
             indebtedness.

     G.      Local laws or ordinances authorizing the purchase, sale, lease or transfer of property, or any lawful
             contract or obligation.

     H.      The levy or imposition of special assessments or charges.

     I.      The dedication of property.

     J.      Any legislation relating to salaries.

     K.      Any legislation adopted subsequent to August 21, 1989.

     § 1-5. Severability.

     If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section, Article or part of this local law or of any local law, ordinance
     or resolution included in this Code now or through supplementation, shall be adjudged by any court of
     competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder
     thereof but shall be confined in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph, section, Article or part
     thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered.

     § 1-6. Copy of Code on file.

     A copy of the Code, in loose-leaf form, has been filed in the office of the Village Clerk of the Village of
     Croton-on-Hudson and shall remain there for use and examination by the public until final action is taken
     on this local law; and, if this local law shall be adopted, such copy shall be certified to by the Village Clerk
     of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson by impressing thereon the Seal of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
     and such certified copy shall remain on file in the office of said Village Clerk to be made available to
     persons desiring to examine the same during all times while the said Code is in effect. The enactment and
     publication of this local law, coupled with the availability of a copy of the Code for inspection by the
     public, shall be deemed, held and considered to be due and legal publication of all provisions of the Code
     for all purposes.

     § 1-7. Amendments to Code.

     Any and all additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to any of the local laws, ordinances and
     resolutions known collectively as the "Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson," or any new local laws
     or resolutions, when enacted or adopted in such form as to indicate the intention of the Board of Trustees
     to be a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into such Code so that reference to the Code shall


     be understood and intended to include such additions, deletions, amendments or supplements. Whenever
     such additions, deletions, amendments or supplements to the Code shall be enacted or adopted, they shall
     thereafter be printed and, as provided hereunder, inserted in the loose-leaf book containing said Code, as
     amendments and supplements thereto. Nothing contained in this local law shall affect the status of any
     local law, ordinance or resolution contained herein, and such local laws, ordinances or resolutions may be
     amended, deleted or changed from time to time as the Board of Trustees deems desirable.

     § 1-8. Code book to be kept up-to-date.

     It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to keep up-to-date the certified copy of the book containing the
     Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson required to be filed in the office of the Village Clerk for use by
     the public. All changes in said Code and all local laws and resolutions adopted by the Board of Trustees
     subsequent to the enactment of this local law in such form as to indicate the intention of said Board to be
     a part of said Code shall, when finally enacted or adopted, be included therein by temporary attachment of
     copies of such changes, local laws or resolutions until such changes, local laws or resolutions are printed
     as supplements to said Code book, at which time such supplements shall be inserted therein.

     § 1-9. Sale of Code book; supplementation.

     Copies of the Code may be purchased from the Village Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson upon
     the payment of a fee to be set by resolution of the Board of Trustees, which Board may also arrange by
     resolution for procedures for the periodic supplementation thereof.

     § 1-10. Penalties for tampering with Code.

     Any person who, without authorization from the Village Clerk, changes or amends, by additions or
     deletions, any part or portion of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, or who alters or tampers
     with such Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the legislation of the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson to be misrepresented thereby, or who violates any other provision of this local law, shall be guilty
     of an offense and shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than $250 or imprisonment
     for a term of not more than 15 days, or both.

     § 1-11. Changes in previously adopted legislation.

     A.      In compiling and preparing the local laws, ordinances and resolutions for publication as the Code of
             the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, no changes in the meaning or intent of such local laws, ordinances
             and resolutions have been made, except as provided for in Subsection B hereof. In addition, certain
             grammatical changes and other minor nonsubstantive changes were made in one or more of said
             pieces of legislation. It is the intention of the Board of Trustees that all such changes be adopted as
             part of the Code as if the local laws, ordinances and resolutions had been previously formally
             amended to read as such.

     B.      In addition, the following changes, amendments or revisions are made herewith, to become effective
             upon the effective date of this local law. (Chapter and section number references are to the local laws,
             ordinances and resolutions as they have been renumbered and appear in the Code.)1


     1.   Editor's Note: In accordance with § 1-11B, the chapters, parts and sections which were added, amended, adopted or deleted by this
          local law are indicated throughout the Code by a footnote referring to Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I. During routine
          supplementation, footnotes indicating amendments, additions or deletions will be replaced with the following history: "Amended
          (added, deleted) 5-7-1990 by L.L. No. 2-1990.” A complete description of each change may be found in L.L. No. 2-1990, on file in the
          office of the Village Clerk.


     § 1-12. Penalties for offenses against Code provisions. [Amended 10-7-2003 by L.L. No. 3-2003;
     9-7-2010 by L.L. No. 3-2010]

     Except where specifically provided elsewhere, any person who violates any provision of this Code or fails
     to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a violation pursuant to
     the Penal Law of the State of New York, punishable by a fine of no more than $250 or by imprisonment
     for not more than 15 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day of noncompliance shall be
     considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
     from taking such other lawful action as necessary to prevent or remedy an infraction.

     § 1-13. Definitions.

     As used in this local law and the Code adopted hereby, the following terms shall have the meanings
     indicated:
     BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD — The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson.
     PERSON — Any individual, firm, company, corporation, association, society or group. The masculine
     shall include the feminine, and the singular shall include the plural.
     VILLAGE — The Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.

     § 1-14. Incorporation of provisions into Code.

     The provisions of this local law are hereby made Article I of Chapter 1 of the Code of the Village of
     Croton-on-Hudson, such local law to be entitled "General Provisions, Article 1, Adoption of Code," and
     the sections of this local law shall be numbered §§ 1-1 to 1-15, inclusive.

     § 1-15. When effective.

     This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State of the State of New
     York.


     § 1-15                                      CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE


                                                        APPEARANCE TICKETS
