---
title: "Chapter 167: Open Fires"
chapter: 167
name: "Open Fires"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 167-1.             Title.                                  § 167-5.      Restricted open fires subject to
     § 167-2.             Findings and purpose.                                 burn permits.
     § 167-3.             Definitions.                            § 167-6.      Exemptions.
     § 167-4.             Open fires prohibited.                  § 167-7.      Penalties for offenses.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 6-26-2023 by
     L.L. No. 10-2023. Amendments noted where applicable.]


     § 167-1. Title.

     This chapter shall be entitled "Open Fires."

     § 167-2. Findings and purpose.

     A.    Open fires can pose a threat to life and property in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson if not properly
           controlled. Said fires can cause air pollution, which can have a detrimental effect on a citizen's health.
           Said fires can also spread and cause damage to other properties and their owners and may result in
           the possible loss of life. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the health, comfort and
           convenience and general welfare of the persons and property in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson by
           restricting open fires.

     B.    This chapter shall augment, and in no way conflict with or supersede, Title 6, Chapter 3, Subchapter
           A, Part 215, of the New York Codes, Rules and Regulations and, where applicable, shall regulate
           those areas specifically prescribed to the authority of the Village.

     § 167-3. Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     BONFIRE — An outdoor fire that has a horizontal dimension of more than three feet in length, width or
     diameter.
     BURN BAN — The official New York State Brush Burning Ban, as established annually by the New York
     Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC).
     CAMP FIRE — A camp fire or other outdoor fire less than three feet in height, and less than three feet in
     length and width or diameter.
     OPEN FIRE — Any outdoor fire or outdoor smoke-producing process from which air contaminants are
     emitted directly into the outdoor atmosphere. Open fires include burning in barrels or modified barrels.
     Open fires do not include burning in outdoor furnaces or boilers that are used to heat buildings when the
     devices are actually used for such purpose.
     OUTDOOR FIREPLACE or FIRE PIT — A commercially designed and manufactured freestanding, often
     portable, outdoor fireplace or fire pit sold specifically for outdoor recreational burning and commonly
     made out of metal and used for either clean wood or gas burning. This definition shall also include


     recreational fire pits and outdoor fireplaces built encompassing a wide variety of styles and functions,
     from a traditional campfire pit to more elaborate constructions of materials such as steel, brick, stone and
     masonry.
     PERSON — Any individual, firm, partnership, company, corporation, society, association or group.
     RED FLAG WARNING — An official weather alert issued by the National Weather Service or successor
     agency.
     REFUSE — Solid or liquid waste materials, including, but not limited to, rags, cartons, chemicals, paint,
     grease, sludges, oils, any petroleum products other than legitimate home heating and cooking products,
     construction materials, including, but not limited to, sheetrock, chip board, asphalt or fiberglass shingles,
     or pressure-treated lumber, automobile parts, tires, dead animals or animal parts, metal goods, including,
     but not limited to, refrigerators, stoves and like appliances, diapers, yard grass clippings, leaves, paper and
     paper products, packaging materials, Styrofoam, mattresses, cigarette filters, glass, plastic of any kind and
     furniture.
     SMALL FIRE — An outdoor fire less than three feet in height, and less than three feet in length and width
     or diameter.
     UNTREATED WOOD — For the purposes of this chapter, any wood or lumber which is not chemically
     treated, coated, stained, sealed, glued or otherwise adulterated. Untreated wood does not include such
     materials as pressure-treated lumber, plywood, particle board, fiberboard, and oriented strand board.

     § 167-4. Open fires prohibited.

     Except as allowed in § 167-5, no person shall burn, cause, suffer, allow or permit the burning of any
     materials in an open fire.

     § 167-5. Restricted open fires subject to burn permits.

     A.    Burning permits required. Notwithstanding § 167-4 above, the following activities are permitted
           subject to receipt of a valid burning permit issued by the Village Manager:

           (1)    Ceremonial or celebratory bonfires where not otherwise prohibited by law, provided that only
                  untreated wood or other agricultural products are used as fuel and the fire is not left unattended
                  until extinguished.

     B.    Application and issuance of burning permits.

           (1)    An application for a burning permit shall be filed at least five working days' prior to the
                  projected open fire and shall be accompanied by the required fee, as adopted by the Village
                  Board of Trustees.

           (2)    The permit application shall contain such information as the Village Manager, after consulting
                  the Village Fire Department, determines to be necessary to assure the safety and security of
                  person and property and the avoidance of air pollution or other harm to the surrounding
                  environment.

           (3)    A burning permit may be suspended or revoked by the Village Manager, or if he is not available
                  by the Fire Chief, for failure to comply with its conditions, a violation of law in connection with
                  the burning or in the likely occurrence of dangerous conditions.

           (4)    Any burning permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall contain the condition that the open fire


     § 167-5                                     CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

                  shall be attended at all times with appropriate fire-extinguishing equipment readily available.

     C.    Restrictions on the issuance of burning permits. No burning permit shall be issued by the Village
           Manager during an active red flag warning or burn ban period.

     § 167-6. Exemptions.

     A.    Notwithstanding §§ 167-4 and 167-5, the following activities and apparatus are expressly permitted
           and exempt from the requirements of a permit:

           (1)    Grilling or cooking using charcoal, propane, butane, untreated wood, or natural gas in cooling
                  or grilling appliances approved for such solid, liquid, or gas fuels.

           (2)    Maple sugar arches and similar outdoor cooking devices when actually used for cooking or
                  processing food.

           (3)    Small fires used for cooking and camp fires, provided that only charcoal or untreated wood is
                  used as fuel and the fire is not left unattended until extinguished.

           (4)    Burning in a stove, outdoor fireplace, fire pit, or furnace, unless the material being burned
                  includes refuse as defined in this chapter.

           (5)    The use of propane, butane, acetylene, natural gas, gasoline, diesel or kerosene in an approved
                  device intended for heating, construction or maintenance activities.

           (6)    Small fires that are used to dispose of a flag or religious item, and small fires or other smoke-
                  producing processes where not otherwise prohibited by law that are used in connection with a
                  religious ceremony and the fire is not left unattended until extinguished.

     B.    The Village of Croton-on-Hudson discourages the above activities and apparatus during an active red
           flag warning or burn ban period.

     § 167-7. Penalties for offenses.

     A.    Notwithstanding any conviction(s) for violation of state law, violation of this chapter shall constitute
           a violation of the Village Code, subject to penalties provided by § 1-12 of Chapter 1 of the Village of
           Croton-on-Hudson Code and revocation of any and all permits issued pursuant to this chapter. Any
           such violation will also be considered in determining whether future permits under this chapter should
           be issued to the same sponsor and/or operator.

     B.    The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Village Police Department of the Village of
           Croton-on-Hudson, Code Enforcement Officers of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, or other
           officials designated by the Village Manager.


                                                   PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS
