---
title: "Chapter 135: Garbage, Rubbish And Littering"
chapter: 135
name: "Garbage, Rubbish And Littering"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 135-1.             Title.                                  § 135-9.    Storage or placement on streets
     § 135-2.             Purpose.                                            and sidewalks.
     § 135-3.             Definitions.                            § 135-10.   Removal of building materials
     § 135-4.             Responsibility for                                  and debris.
                          administration; collection              § 135-11.   Accumulations restricted.
                          regulations.                            § 135-12.   Dumping and littering.
     § 135-5.             Garbage collection containers.          § 135-13.   Responsibility for compliance.
     § 135-6.             Removal of containers after             § 135-14.   Enforcement.
                          collection.                             § 135-15.   Penalties for offenses.
     § 135-7.             Excess garbage and rubbish.             § 135-16.   Interpretation.
     § 135-8.             Collection schedule.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 2-2-1987 by
     L.L. No. 1-1987. Section 135-15 amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General
     Provisions, Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]


     § 135-1. Title.

     This chapter shall be entitled "Garbage, Rubbish and Littering."

     § 135-2. Purpose.

     It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the health, comfort and convenience and general welfare of all
     residents of the community, to safeguard village employees from hazards in the course of their assigned
     duties and to protect and preserve the rights of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and its inhabitants by
     regulating the methods and procedures of collecting and disposing of garbage and rubbish.

     § 135-3. Definitions. [Amended 1-8-2025 by L.L. No. 2-2025]

     As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     CONTAINER — A watertight, nonrusting metal or plastic container of substantial construction with
     sloping sidewalls, volume or capacity not to exceed 45 gallons nor total full weight over 70 pounds,
     equipped with a tightfitting cover and with two substantial handles.
     DUMPSTER — A container of one and one-half cubic yards, fabricated of prime steel, fully welded
     throughout, mounted on four six-inch swivel casters, capable of being emptied into the hopper of a rear-
     load packer truck and which meets all village specifications and all United States federal safety standards.
     GARBAGE — All putrescible or decaying wastes, except sewage, body wastes and medical and nuclear
     wastes including vegetables and animal offal, carcasses of dead animals, litter, paper, paper products
     or materials, cardboard, wood, rubber, cloth, leather or any similar combustible material, and all such
     substances accumulated on or removed from all public and private establishments and properties, including
     residences, but excluding recognizable industrial byproducts, discarded wood, lumber or stones. Garbage


     shall not be understood to include recyclables as defined in § 185, Recycling, of the Code of the Village of
     Croton-on-Hudson.
     PERSON — Any individual, firm, partnership, company, corporation, society, association or group.
     RUBBISH — Inorganic wastes such as glass, porcelain crockery, metals, tin cans or other similar
     noncombustible matter, and shall also include grass clippings, leaves, tree trimmings, bushes, branches,
     Christmas trees and similar waste materials and equipment or furniture.

     § 135-4. Responsibility for administration; collection regulations.

     The removal and disposal of garbage and rubbish in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, shall be
     under the jurisdiction of the Village Manager. The General Foreman of the Department of Public Works is
     hereby empowered to make and publish regulations concerning the days and times for collection of garbage
     and rubbish, location and number of containers and any and all other regulations pertaining to the collection
     and disposal of these wastes as the General Foreman deems advisable, provided that such regulations are
     not contrary to this chapter, and further provided that no regulation shall become effective until a copy of
     thereof is filed in the office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.

     § 135-5. Garbage collection containers.

     A.     The container shall be maintained in good condition by the owner thereof and shall not be permitted
            to have any ragged or sharp edges or any other defects liable to hinder or harm the person collecting
            the contents thereof.

     B.     Should the container deteriorate to such an extent that the handles thereof become dangerous and
            liable to injure or hinder the person collecting the contents of said container or should it leak, it must
            be replaced by a proper container within one week after receipt of a written notice from the
            Department of Public Works of said conditions. All such improper receptacles shall be removed by
            the village collectors.

     C.     It shall be the duty of each householder, owner or occupant of a place of business or other similar
            place to provide the approved container for garbage and rubbish to hold the waste accumulation
            between periods of collection by the Department of Public Works or provide for collection and
            disposal by a private collector.

     D.     The village shall not be responsible for breakage of plastic containers or for bags ripped apart, torn or
            broken by animals or other means.

     § 135-6. Removal of containers after collection.

     All containers must be removed from the curb or sidewalk area the day that collections are made.

     § 135-7. Excess garbage and rubbish. [Amended 7-5-2022 by L.L. No. 9-2022]

     Garbage and rubbish beyond the limits set by the General Foreman in the garbage and rubbish regulations
     may be collected by the Department of Public Works in accordance with a fee schedule52 set by the Village
     Board of Trustees utilizing approved dumpsters. The Village shall forward a bill for such fees on a monthly
     basis to the owner and, if appropriate, occupant of the property. The bill will set forth the process for the
     owner and/or occupant to appeal the charges to the Village Manager. If any such bill is not paid within


     52. Editor's Note: The current fee schedule is on file in the office of the Village Clerk. Also see Ch. 122, Fees.


     § 135-7                                   GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING                                                § 135-13

     30 days, the costs set forth thereon shall be assessed against the property and become a lien thereon. Any
     such bill which remains outstanding on April 15 of each year shall be added to the Village tax bill for the
     property, collectible in the same manner as delinquent Village taxes and assessments. Any appeal must be
     filed with the Village Manager within 10 days of the bill and must set forth the reason why the owner or
     occupant believes the cost should not be payable by the owner or occupant under the provisions of this
     section. If requested, the owner or occupant will be given the opportunity to discuss their position with the
     Village Manager. The decision of the Village Manager shall be made within 10 days after receipt of the
     appeal or any such discussion and shall be final.

     § 135-8. Collection schedule.53 [Added 1-8-2025 by L.L. No. 2-2025]

     Materials shall be collected curbside once per week as per an established schedule. Containers shall be
     placed curbside not before 5:00 p.m. on the day preceding collection nor later than 7:00 a.m. on the
     scheduled collection date.

     § 135-9. Storage or placement on streets and sidewalks.

     Any place of business or other establishment shall not at any time, including days of collection, store or
     place garbage and rubbish on any street or sidewalk in such a way as to create a hazard.

     § 135-10. Removal of building materials and debris.

     Whenever any building is being built, repaired or renovated, the debris from such a job or building material
     of any kind shall be removed by and at the expense of the property owner or contractor.

     § 135-11. Accumulations restricted.

     A.    The owners and/or occupants of real property shall be responsible for the regular collection and/or
           disposal of all garbage and rubbish which may accumulate on the property owned and/or occupied by
           them.

     B.    No person shall accumulate or permit the accumulation of garbage and rubbish on any premises
           owned by or occupied by him or her within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     C.    Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the maintenance of compost or mulch piles,
           provided that nothing is deposited in such piles that develops obnoxious odors, attracts rodents or
           otherwise creates a hazard to the health or enjoyment of neighboring property owners.

     § 135-12. Dumping and littering.

     It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the village to maintain any dump or permit
     the dumping of garbage, boxes, cartons, appliances, automobiles or automobile parts, except as may be
     provided in the Zoning Law;54 or permit the accumulation or scattering of any kind of rubbish, debris,
     garbage or waste material of any sort on or about any lawn, vacant lot, alley or backyard or in any building,
     structure, culvert or stream in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson; or place, leave, throw or deposit or cause
     to be placed, left, thrown or deposited any refuse, wrappers, papers, waste, debris, rubbish or garbage at, in
     or upon any street, sidewalk, park, pond, culvert, stream, public lands, lawn, backyard or vacant property
     in the village.

     53. Editor's Note: Former § 135-8, Outdoor burning, as amended 9-26-1994 by L.L. No. 10-1994, was repealed 6-26-2023 by L.L. No.
         10-2023.
     54. Editor's Note: See Ch. 230, Zoning.


     § 135-13                                      CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     § 135-13. Responsibility for compliance.

     A.     Occupants. An occupant of the premises shall be responsible for compliance with this chapter in
            regard to the following: disposal of garbage and rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner in accordance
            with the time limitations set forth in garbage and rubbish regulations and for removing containers as
            herein provided.

     B.     Owners. Owners of premises shall be responsible for compliance with the provisions of this chapter
            and shall remain responsible therefor, regardless of the fact that this chapter may also place certain
            responsibilities on occupants and operators and regardless of any agreements between owners and
            operators or occupants as to which party shall assume responsibility.

     § 135-14. Enforcement.

     It shall be the responsibility of the Village Manager or his or her authorized representatives to enforce the
     provisions of this chapter.

     § 135-15. Penalties for offenses.55

     Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter or aiding, abetting or assisting in
     the violation of said provisions shall, upon conviction before the proper officials of the Village of Croton-
     on-Hudson, be punished as provided in § 1-12 of Chapter 1, General Provisions. Each subsequent day said
     offense persists shall constitute a separate offense.

     § 135-16. Interpretation.

     A.     In a case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any provisions of the Health
            and Sanitary Code of the County of Westchester and/or the Sanitary Code of the State of New York,
            the provisions of this chapter shall apply.

     B.     The provisions of this chapter shall supersede local laws, codes, ordinances and regulations to the
            extent that such laws, codes, ordinances and regulations are inconsistent with the provisions of this
            chapter, provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the adoption of a law,
            code, ordinance or regulation which is more restrictive or establishes a higher standard for the
            collection and disposal of garbage and rubbish as provided in this chapter, and such restrictions,
            requirements or higher standards shall govern during the period in which this chapter is in effect.


     55. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


                                                             GRAFFITI                                            § 137-5
