---
title: "Chapter 113: Electrical Standards"
chapter: 113
name: "Electrical Standards"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 113-1.               Title.                                § 113-6.             Electrical inspectors.
     § 113-2.               Scope.                                § 113-7.             Inspections and certifications.
     § 113-3.               Purpose.                              § 113-8.             Connections to electrical
     § 113-4.               Compliance with standards                                  service.
                            required.                             § 113-9.             Penalties for offenses.
     § 113-5.               Application for electrical work.      § 113-10.            Liability.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 4-5-1971.
     Sections 113-5A, 113-6A, 113-7A(1) and B, 113-9 and 113-10 amended at time of adoption of Code;
     see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Penalties for offenses — See Ch. 1, § 1-12.                  Building construction — See Ch. 86.

     Alarm systems — See Ch. 70.                                  Fire prevention — See Ch. 125.


     § 113-1. Title.

     The following provisions shall constitute and be known as the "Electrical Standards of the Village of
     Croton-on-Hudson" and be cited as such.

     § 113-2. Scope.

     This chapter shall apply to all real property within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 113-3. Purpose.
     The purpose of this chapter is the practical safeguarding of persons and of buildings and their contents
     from hazards arising from the use of electricity.

     § 113-4. Compliance with standards required.

     A.     All electrical installations shall be made in conformity with the provisions of the latest edition of the
            National Electrical Code (NFPA No. 70), as adopted by the National Fire Protection Association and
            as approved and adopted by the American Standards Association.

     B.     This chapter will be automatically amended whenever the National Electrical Code is amended.

     C.     All new construction over which the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has jurisdiction must be made to
            conform to the requirements of this chapter.

     D.     All new electrical wiring within the limits of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson must be done in
            accordance with the requirements of this chapter.


     § 113-5. Application for electrical work.

     A.    No writing, device or equipment for the transmission, distribution or utilization of electrical energy
           or light, power and/or heat shall be installed in or on any building or structure, nor shall any alteration
           or addition be made to any such existing wiring, devices or equipment, without first submitting an
           application for such work to an authorized agency. [Amended 5-7-1990 as L.L. No. 2-1990;
           3-6-2023 by L.L. No. 1-2023]

     B.    Exceptions. No application shall be required for replacing fuses or for connecting portable devices to
           suitable receptacles which have previously been permanently installed.

     § 113-6. Electrical inspectors.

     A.    Any agency duly authorized by Westchester County is hereby empowered to provide one or more
           electrical inspectors, as required, to make inspections and reinspections of all new installations and
           of all existing installations as provided for in this chapter. All such agencies will be subject to
           approval by the Village Engineer prior to conducting any inspections as authorized by this chapter.
           [Amended 5-7-1990 as L.L. No. 2-1990; 3-6-2023 by L.L. No. 1-2023]

     B.    It shall be unlawful for electrical inspectors to engage in the business or the sale, installation or
           maintenance of electrical wiring, electrical devices or electrical equipment, either directly or
           indirectly, and they shall have no financial interest in any concern engaged in any such business in
           the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or elsewhere.

     C.    Authority granted to electrical inspector. The inspector or his authorized deputy shall have the right
           during reasonable hours to enter any building in the discharge of his official duties or for the purpose
           of making any inspection or test of the installation of electrical wiring, electrical material or
           apparatus, fixtures or appliances, contained therein.

     D.    In no event will the cost or expense of such inspections and reinspections be a charge against the
           Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 113-7. Inspections and certifications.

     A.    Certification following inspection. [Amended 5-7-1990 as L.L. No. 2-1990; 3-6-2023 by L.L. No.
           1-2023]

           (1)    Upon the completion of the installation of the electrical wiring, devices and equipment, it shall
                  be the duty of the person, firm or corporation installing the same to notify an authorized agency,
                  whose inspector shall inspect the installation promptly after such notice is given. If it is found
                  to be fully in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, he shall issue the certificate of the
                  authorized agency to such person, firm or corporation as a final approval authorizing connection
                  to the electrical service and/or the turning on of the current and the use of the installation. He
                  shall send written notice of the authorization to the public utility corporation furnishing the
                  electrical service. When a certificate is issued authorizing the connection and the use of
                  temporary work, such a certificate shall be issued to expire at a stated time and shall be
                  revocable by the inspector at his discretion.

           (2)    If, upon the inspection of the installation, it is not found to be fully in compliance with this
                  chapter, the inspector shall at once forward to the person, firm or corporation installing the
                  wiring a written notice stating the defects which have been found to exist.


     § 113-7                                       CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

            (3)    When any part of a wiring installation is to be concealed from view by the permanent placement
                   of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing the wiring shall notify the
                   inspector. Such parts of the wiring installation shall not be concealed until they have been
                   inspected.

     B.     No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until a copy of the certificate of the inspection agency has
            been filed with the Village Engineer.44

     § 113-8. Connections to electrical service.

     A.     It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection from a source of electrical
            energy to any electrical wiring, devices or equipment for the installation of which an application is
            required until a certificate of approval has been issued by the inspector authorizing such connection
            and/or the use of such wiring, devices or equipment.

     B.     It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to make connection from a source of electrical
            energy to any electrical devices, wiring or equipment which has been disconnected or ordered to be
            disconnected by the inspector until a certificate of approval has been issued by him authorizing the
            reconnection and use of such wiring, devices or equipment.

     § 113-9. Penalties for offenses.45

     Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to comply with any of these provisions hereof shall, upon
     conviction thereof of each offense, be subject to the penalties provided by § 1-12 of Chapter 1, General
     Provisions. Each and every day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.

     § 113-10. Liability. [Amended 5-7-1990 as L.L. No. 2-1990; 3-6-2023 by L.L. No. 1-2023]

     This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person owning,
     operating, controlling or installing any electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment for loss of life
     or damage to person or property caused by any defect therein, nor shall the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
     or other authorized agency be deemed to have assumed any such liability by reason of any inspection made
     pursuant to this chapter.


     44. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.
     45. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


                                                   ENERGY CONSERVATION
