---
title: "Chapter 115: Environmental Compliance"
chapter: 115
name: "Environmental Compliance"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 115-1.              Findings; legislative intent.                 § 115-4.               Stop-work orders;
     § 115-2.              Environmental Compliance                                             enforcement; appeals.
                           Consultant.                                   § 115-5.               Severability.
     § 115-3.              Powers and duties of
                           Environmental Compliance
                           Consultant.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 3-20-2006 by
     L.L. No. 4-2006.46 Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                              GENERAL REFERENCES

     Building construction — See Ch. 86.                                 Steep slopes — See Ch. 195.

     Environmental review — See Ch. 116.                                 Trees — See Ch. 208.

     Excavation, filling and topsoil removal — See Ch. 120.              Waterfront revitalization — See Ch. 225.

     Flood damage prevention — See Ch. 129.                              Wetlands and watercourses — See Ch. 227.

     Professional fees — See Ch. 178.                                    Zoning — See Ch. 230.


     § 115-1. Findings; legislative intent.

     A.    The Village Board has been advised by the Village Engineer, Village Counsel and the Village
           Planning Board that the costs of ensuring compliance with applicable environmental standards and
           requirements regarding residential development, subdivision development, cluster development,
           commercial development, industrial development and any other development or construction activity
           in environmentally sensitive areas exceed the resources presently available to the Village.

     B.    Increasingly, the Planning Board is approving subdivision and cluster developments which are
           subject to complex and detailed conditions in order to properly protect environmentally sensitive
           areas. The Village will be required to closely monitor construction and development on such sites in
           order to ensure full compliance with these detailed conditions and to prevent, to the maximum extent
           possible, environmental harm.

     C.    Construction in environmentally sensitive areas may result in irreparable damage to the environment
           if prompt action is not taken by Village officials.

     D.    The Village Board of Trustees desires to allow development wherever practical, reasonable and in
           conformity with all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to concurrently assure that
           environmentally sensitive areas are actually developed in full compliance with all applicable Village


     46. Editor's Note: This local law also repealed former Ch. 115, Environmental Compliance, adopted 5-4-1992 by L.L. No. 3-1992, as
         amended.


           requirements relating to environmental protection and all applicable specific resolutions or other
           development approvals of any of the various Village boards.

     § 115-2. Environmental Compliance Consultant.

     A.    Upon the recommendation of the approving authority issuing a subdivision, site plan, minor site plan,
           special permit or environmental constraints (wetlands, steep slopes or tree removal) permit approval,
           and the Village Engineer, the Board of Trustees may retain qualified professionals to act as an
           Environmental Compliance Consultant in order to ensure that environmentally sensitive areas are
           protected during the course of construction and land development. The Environmental Compliance
           Consultant shall be qualified by education and training to inspect, monitor and evaluate compliance
           with conditions or requirements imposed by the approving authority designed to protect against or
           minimize the adverse environmental impacts of construction and land development.

     B.    When the approving authority issuing a permit or approval as specified in Subsection A above
           recommends in its resolution of approval the appointment of an Environmental Compliance
           Consultant, unless otherwise provided in that resolution, no land development or construction shall
           commence pursuant to such permit or approval until the Environmental Compliance Consultant has
           been retained by the Village Board of Trustees and is available to perform the duties authorized under
           this chapter or the expiration of 60 days from the filing of the resolution of approval, whichever is
           earlier.

     § 115-3. Powers and duties of Environmental Compliance Consultant.

     The Environmental Compliance Consultant shall possess the following powers and shall perform the
     following duties:

     A.    Enter upon the land or site for which construction or land development approval has been granted,
           for the purposes of inspecting the premises and monitoring the construction or land development on
           the site, to ensure that all conditions or requirements designed to protect against or minimize adverse
           environmental impacts are being complied with.

     B.    Review approved site plans and other construction permits and plans and assure that construction and
           land development conform to the conditions of those plans.

     C.    Perform such other duties consistent with this chapter as may be prescribed in any land development
           or construction approval or site plan.

     D.    Work with and be responsible to the Village Engineer in connection with the performance of all duties
           required by this chapter.

     E.    Where land development or construction approval requires that, prior to disturbing the land, the
           holder of such approval shall physically stake the location of construction activities, wetland
           boundaries and/or associated one-hundred-twenty-foot wetland buffers, any areas in which the terrain
           will be disturbed and/or the location of any other activity on the site plan, approval and plans, such
           staking shall occur subsequent to the granting of a building permit but not later than 20 days prior to
           the commencement of land development or construction activity. Upon completion of the staking, the
           holder of the land development or construction permit approval shall notify the Environmental
           Compliance Consultant, who shall inspect the staking within 10 days of receipt of such notification
           and determine whether the staking is in conformity with the land development and construction
           approval and plans.


     § 115-3                                     CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     F.    Recommend to the Village Engineer, or such other approval authority having jurisdiction, the
           relocation or adjustment, in the field, of the alignment and location of driveways, roads, utility lines,
           building envelopes, any other construction or terrain disturbance in order to prevent the potential loss
           of significant terrain functions and to prevent potential adverse effects on the environment, consistent
           with the site plan and land development or construction approval.

     G.    Advise the Village Engineer where there is a failure to comply with the conditions or requirements of
           the land development or construction permit approval and recommend the taking of appropriate
           enforcement action to cure such violation.

     § 115-4. Stop-work orders; enforcement; appeals.

     A.    The Environmental Compliance Consultant may request the Village Engineer to issue a stop-work
           order requiring the cessation of construction, development or work of any type at any land or site for
           which development or construction approval has been granted if:

           (1)    There is a failure to comply with the conditions or requirements of the development or
                  construction approval or the site plan; or

           (2)    There is a failure to maintain appropriate escrow accounts or other forms of financial security
                  as may be required under the Village Code or any applicable permit resolution.

     B.    Issuance of a stop-work order by the Village Engineer shall be as provided in § 86-14 of the Village
           Code. A stop-work order may be appealed by filing a written notice of appeal with the Planning Board
           not later than 30 days after service of the stop-work order upon the applicant. A hearing shall be
           scheduled by the Planning Board within 20 days of receipt of request for a hearing. After the close of
           the hearing, the Planning Board may confirm, modify or cancel the stop-work order.

     C.    Stop-work orders shall remain in force permanently unless rescinded by the Village Engineer or by
           the Planning Board after an appeal.

     D.    The Village shall be empowered to enforce the requirements of any development or construction
           approval, site plan or stop-work order by means of any judicial remedy available to the Village,
           including but not limited to injunctive relief.

     § 115-5. Severability.

     If any provision of this chapter shall be held for any reason to be invalid, such determination shall not
     invalidate any other provision hereof.


                                                    ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
