---
title: "Chapter 158: Masks And Face Coverings"
chapter: 158
name: "Masks And Face Coverings"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 158-1.             Findings and purpose.                   § 158-4.    Face mask or face covering
     § 158-2.             Definitions.                                        required on private property.
     § 158-3.             Face mask or face covering              § 158-5.    Exceptions.
                          required on public property.            § 158-6.    Enforcement; penalties for
                                                                              offenses.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 11-16-2020 by
     L.L. No. 9-2020. Amendments noted where applicable.]


     § 158-1. Findings and purpose.

     A.    In February 2020, the Center for Diseases Control and Prevention ("CDC") confirmed the first case
           in the United States of a new respiratory disease called the novel coronavirus (COVID-19).
           COVID-19 is caused by a virus (SARS-CoV-2) that is part of a large family of viruses called
           coronaviruses. COVID-19 spread rapidly in population centers in New York, including those within
           the County of Westchester. COVID-19 poses serious health risks to persons infected with the disease,
           particularly those with underlying medical conditions and the elderly. The spread of COVID-19 has
           caused economic hardship for many of the Village's residents and business owners and has
           significantly impacted the Village's ability to provide services to its constituents. It is therefore
           essential that the spread of the virus be slowed to safeguard public health, safety and welfare.

     B.    The virus that causes COVID-19 is readily transmitted via respiratory droplet contact, especially in
           group settings. Droplet transmission can be reduced with the use of personal protective barriers, such
           as face masks. The CDC and other public health agencies have uniformly recommended that the
           general public wear cloth face coverings and that individuals not residing within the same household
           maintain at least six feet of social distance from one another to prevent the spread of COVID-19 by
           droplet transmission.

     C.    On April 15, 2020, Governor Cuomo issued Executive Order 202.17 requiring any individual who is
           over the age of two and able to medically tolerate a face covering to cover their nose and mouth with
           a mask or cloth face covering when in a public place and unable to maintain, or when not maintaining,
           social distance. [Amended 1-19-2021 by L.L. No. 3-2021]

     D.    On May 28, 2020, the Governor issued Executive Order 202.34 which authorized business operators
           and building owners to deny admittance to individuals who fail to comply with the Governor's face
           mask mandate set forth in Executive Order 202.17 or to require or remove individuals from the
           premises if such individual fails to wear a face mask as required. Nothing in Executive Order 202.34
           or any other executive order prohibits or limits the right of state and local enforcement authorities
           from imposing fines or other penalties for any violation of the directive in Executive Order 202.17.

     E.    The New York State Department of Health has issued industry guidance during the COVID-19 public
           health emergency for a variety of activities, industries and businesses which sets forth physical-
           distancing requirements to minimize the spread of droplets and airborne contaminants, including
           generally mandating a distance of six feet between individuals and when not able to do so, the


           wearing of acceptable face covering.

     F.    The Governor has issued multiple executive orders limiting the gatherings of individuals, whether it
           is on public or private property. On June 15, 2020, the Governor issued executive order 202.45, which
           modified prior executive orders to "allow gatherings of 50 or fewer individuals for any lawful purpose
           or reason, so long as any such gatherings occurring indoors do not exceed 50% of the maximum
           occupancy for a particular indoor area, and provided that the location of the gathering is in a region
           that has reached Phase 4 of the state's reopening, and provided further that social distancing, face
           covering, and cleaning and disinfection protocols required by the Department of Health are adhered
           to." Thus, gatherings that do not exceed the Governor's limitations may occur so long as appropriate
           social-distancing and face-covering requirements are adhered to.

     G.    Governor Cuomo has repeatedly stated that local governments have a responsibility to enforce social
           distancing, mask-wearing requirements and business closures and limitations. The Governor has
           warned local governments across New York State that if local officials do not enforce compliance
           with COVID-19 public health orders, areas will be closed again. The Governor has stated that he will
           reverse openings in areas that are not complying with the rules and in those areas where local
           governments are not enforcing the law.

     H.    While voluntary compliance with the aforementioned health and safety precautions on public and
           private property is preferred, the Village has determined that the grave health risks and economic
           impacts associated with COVID-19 require enforcement mechanisms to protect the public health,
           safety and welfare of Village residents. This chapter therefore establishes mandatory requirements
           regarding the use of face masks and face coverings on private and public property in the Village of
           Croton-on-Hudson as well as penalties for any violation of the requirements of this chapter.

     § 158-2. Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     FACE MASKS AND FACE COVERINGS — Masks and face coverings include, but are not limited to
     cloth (e.g., homemade sewn, quick cut, bandana), surgical masks, N-95 respirators and face shields.

     § 158-3. Face mask or face covering required on public property.

     All persons shall wear a face mask or face covering which shall be worn covering the nose and mouth of the
     wearer at all times in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson when present in or on any public property or public
     space, including but not limited to any park, recreational facility, Village building, sidewalk, street, parking
     lot or plaza, when unable to maintain a distance of six feet from another person who is not a member of the
     same household.

     § 158-4. Face mask or face covering required on private property.

     All persons shall wear a face mask or face covering which shall be worn covering the nose and mouth of the
     wearer at all times when on private property located in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, including but not
     limited to business and professional offices, retail and personal service establishments, restaurants, child-
     care facilities, places of public accommodation, private clubs and religious establishments, when unable to
     maintain a distance of six feet from another person who is not a member of the same household. Residential
     property is exempted from the aforementioned requirements.

     § 158-5. Exceptions. [Amended 1-19-2021 by L.L. No. 3-2021]


     § 158-5                                   MASKS AND FACE COVERINGS

     A.    Face masks or face coverings shall not be required to be worn by any child under the age of two or
           by anyone who is unable to medically tolerate a face covering.

     B.    Face masks or face coverings shall not be required to be worn if individuals maintain a distance of at
           least six feet from another person. Individuals who reside in the same household shall not be required
           to wear a face mask or face covering if located within six feet of each other.

     C.    Drivers traveling alone or exclusively with members of their households in a motor vehicle do not
           need to wear face coverings.

     D.    Individuals are not required to wear a face mask or face covering when they are actively eating and/
           or drinking, or while seated at a restaurant.

     § 158-6. Enforcement; penalties for offenses.

     A.    This chapter may only be enforced during the time that a declaration of emergency is issued by the
           Village Manager due to an epidemic or disease outbreak that is communicable through droplet contact
           or airborne transmission.

     B.    The Police Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall enforce the provisions of this
           chapter.

     C.    Any person found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be subject to a maximum fine of $1,000
           for each violation. [Amended 1-19-2021 by L.L. No. 3-2021]


                                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                                  § 160-2
