---
title: "Chapter 12: Conservation Advisory Council"
chapter: 12
name: "Conservation Advisory Council"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 12-1.              Legislative intent.                     § 12-5.                Powers and duties.
     § 12-2.              Establishment.                          § 12-6.                Reports.
     § 12-3.              Membership; terms.                      § 12-7.                Compensation; expenses.
     § 12-4.              Officers; rules, records and            § 12-8.                Interpretation of provisions.
                          reports.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 2-6-1978 by
     L.L. No. 3-1978. Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Residency requirements — See Ch. 50.                         Duties with regard to trees — See Ch. 208, Art. I.

     Environmental quality review — See Ch. 116.


     § 12-1. Legislative intent.

     The preservation and improvement of the quality of the natural and manmade environment within the
     Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the face of population growth, urbanization and technologic change, with
     their accompanying demands on natural resources, are found to be of increasing and vital importance to
     the health, welfare and economic well-being of present and future inhabitants and to require forthright
     action by the governing body of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson. It is recognized that the biologic
     integrity of the natural environment on which man is dependent for survival and the natural and functional
     beauty of our surroundings, which condition the quality of life experience, cannot be protected without
     the full cooperation and participation of all the people of the village working in partnership with local and
     state officials and with various public and private institutions, agencies and organizations. Establishment
     of a commission for conservation of the environment is a necessary step in fostering unified action on
     environmental problems.

     § 12-2. Establishment.

     The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby creates a commission which shall be
     known as the "Croton Conservation Advisory Council," hereinafter called the "Croton CAC."

     § 12-3. Membership; terms.

     A.    The Croton CAC shall consist of not fewer than three nor more than nine members who shall be
           appointed by the Board of Trustees and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees for a term not
           exceeding two years.

     B.    The Board of Trustees shall set the membership number by resolution. Initial appointments to the
           Croton CAC shall be split between one-year and two-year terms so that half or the next lowest whole
           number shall be appointed to one-year terms and half or the next-highest whole number shall be


           appointed to two-year terms. Successors of all initial appointees shall be appointed to full two-year
           terms.

     C.    Vacancies on the Croton CAC occurring other than by the expiration of term of office shall be filled
           only for the remainder of the unexpired term.

     D.    The Mayor, the Chairman of the Planning Board and any others designated by the Mayor shall be ex
           officio members of the Council.

     § 12-4. Officers; rules, records and reports.

     The Mayor shall designate a member of the Croton CAC to act as Chairman thereof. At the first meeting
     of the Croton CAC, its members shall elect from among themselves a Recording Secretary. The Croton
     CAC shall adopt rules and procedures for its meetings. It shall keep accurate records of its meetings and
     activities and shall file an annual report as provided in § 12-6 of this chapter.

     § 12-5. Powers and duties.

     A.    The powers and duties of the Croton CAC shall be to:

           (1)    Advise the Board of Trustees on matters affecting the preservation and use of the natural and
                  man-made features and conditions of the village insofar as beauty, quality, biologic integrity
                  and other environmental factors are concerned so as to enhance the long-range value of the
                  environment to the people of the village.

           (2)    Develop and, after receiving general approval by resolution of the Board of Trustees, conduct a
                  program of public information in the community which shall be designed to foster increased
                  understanding of the nature of environmental problems and issues and support for their
                  solutions.

           (3)    Conduct studies, surveys and inventories of the natural and manmade features with the Village
                  of Croton-on-Hudson and such other studies and surveys as may be necessary to carry out the
                  general purposes of this chapter.

           (4)    Maintain an up-to-date inventory or index of all open spaces in public or private ownership
                  within the village, including but not limited to natural landmarks; glacial and other geomorphic
                  or physiographic features; streams and their floodplains, swamps, marshlands and other
                  wetlands; unique biotic communities; scenic and other open areas of natural or ecological value;
                  and of the ownership, present use and proposed use of such open areas so as to provide a base
                  of information for recommendations by the Council for their preservation and/or use.

           (5)    Seek to coordinate, assist and unify the efforts of private groups, institutions and individuals
                  with the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in accord with the purposes of this chapter.

           (6)    Maintain liaison and communications with public and private agencies and organizations of
                  local, state and national scope whose programs activities have an impact on the quality of the
                  environment or who can be of assistance to the Council.

           (7)    Recommend from time to time to the Board of Trustees features, plans and programs relating to
                  environmental improvement and recommend to the Board of Trustees appropriate and desirable
                  changes in the existing local laws and ordinances relating to environmental control or
                  recommend new local laws.


     § 12-5                               CONSERVATION ADVISORY COUNCIL

           (8)    Prepare, print and distribute books, maps, charts and pamphlets in accord with the purposes of
                  this chapter.

           (9)    Obtain and maintain in orderly fashion maps, reports, books and other publications to support
                  the necessary researches of the Council into local environmental conditions.

           (10) Carry out such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board of Trustees.

     B.    When authorized by resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, the
           Croton CAC may accept, by gift, grant, devise, bequest or otherwise, property, both real and personal,
           in the name of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as may be necessary to conserve and otherwise
           properly utilize open spaces and other land and water resources within the boundaries of the Village
           of Croton-on-Hudson. Such real property may be accepted in fee for land and water rights or as any
           lesser interest, development right or easement, including conservation easement, covenant or other
           contractual right, including conveyance with limitations or reversions.

     § 12-6. Reports.

     The Croton CAC shall submit an annual report to the Board of Trustees not later than the 31st day of
     December of each year concerning the activities and work of the Council and from time to time shall
     submit such reports and recommendations as may be necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter.

     § 12-7. Compensation; expenses.

     The members of the Croton CAC including ex officio members, shall receive no compensation for their
     services as members thereof but may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expanses incurred in the
     performance of their duties within the appropriations made available therefor.

     § 12-8. Interpretation of provisions.

     This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the powers of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to preserve and
     improve the quality of the natural and manmade environment on behalf of the present and future inhabitants
     thereof. This chapter is not intended and shall not be deemed to impair the powers of any other public
     corporation.


                                                 CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE
