---
title: "Chapter 127: Fireworks"
chapter: 127
name: "Fireworks"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 127-1.             Findings and purpose.                   § 127-5.     Revocation of permit.
     § 127-2.             Definitions.                            § 127-6.     Additional requirements.
     § 127-3.             General restrictions; permit            § 127-7.     Penalties for offenses.
                          required.                               § 127-8.     Conflict with state law.
     § 127-4.             Application procedures.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 12-6-1976 by
     L.L. No. 6-1976; amended in its entirety 10-4-2021 by L.L. No. 11-2021. Subsequent amendments
     noted where applicable.]


     § 127-1. Findings and purpose.

     A.    Pursuant to the New York State Penal Law, § 405.00, private individuals, as well as organizations
           and municipalities, may employ professional pyrotechnics services for fireworks displays. The
           Village Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson (hereinafter, the "Village") hereby
           finds that such activities are extremely dangerous, as they incorporate the use of highly explosive
           materials and other devices which pose a threat to the health and safety of the Village and its
           residents. The Board therefore finds it necessary to enact provisions benefiting the health, safety and
           general welfare of the Village and its residents with respect to the storage and use of fireworks within
           the Village's jurisdiction.

     B.    This chapter shall augment, and in no way conflict with or supersede, §§ 405.00 and 270.00 of the
           New York State Penal Law and, where applicable, shall regulate those areas specifically prescribed
           to the authority of the Village.

     § 127-2. Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     FIREWORKS — As defined in § 270.00 of the New York State Penal Law (as amended).
     OPERATOR — A pyrotechnic or pyrotechnic company certified by the State of New York, pursuant to
     the New York State General Business Law and Article 16 of the New York State Labor Law (as amended),
     in the handling, storage and discharge of fireworks.
     PERMIT — For purposes of this chapter, a permit issued by the permitting authority for the public display
     and discharge of fireworks in accordance with the requirements set forth by this chapter and as provided
     for in the application materials provided by the Village.
     PERMITTING AUTHORITY — For purposes of this chapter, the Village Police Chief, who shall review
     applications for fireworks displays and, in consultation with the Village Fire Chief, issue or deny permits
     in connection therewith.
     SPONSOR — For purposes of this chapter, any person, company, municipality, fair association, or other
     legal entity applying for a permit for the discharge and display of fireworks.


     § 127-3. General restrictions; permit required.

     A.    No storage of fireworks, or public or private fireworks display, shall be conducted in the Village
           unless a valid permit for such storage and/or display is first issued by the permitting authority
           pursuant to this chapter.

     B.    No person or other legal entity shall conduct an indoor fireworks display in the Village.

     C.    No public fireworks display shall be conducted in the Village on a lot containing a two-family or
           multiunit dwelling as its principal use.

     D.    A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable to any other party.

     § 127-4. Application procedures.

     A.    Information required; filing deadline; fee.

           (1)    The application for a permit pursuant to this chapter shall contain at least the following
                  information, and supporting documents, on a form provided by the Village:

                  (a)    The name of the sponsor and the names of the operators who shall possess valid
                         certificates of competence as pyrotechnicians as required under the New York State
                         General Business Law and Article 16 of the New York State Labor Law. The permit
                         application shall further contain a verified statement from the sponsor identifying the
                         operators, who are authorized to fire the display, including their certificate numbers, and
                         that such operators possess valid certificates of competence as pyrotechnicians.

                  (b)    The date and time of day at which the display is to be held;

                  (c)    The exact location planned for the display;

                  (d)    The number and kind of fireworks to be discharged;

                  (e)    The manner and place of storage of the fireworks prior to the display;

                  (f)    A diagram of the grounds on which the display is to be held showing the point at which
                         the fireworks are to be discharged, the location of all buildings, highways and other lines
                         of communication, the lines behind which the audience will be restrained and the location
                         of all nearby trees, telegraph or telephone lines or other overhead obstructions; and

                  (g)    Such other information as the permitting authority prescribes as necessary for the
                         evaluation and determination of a fireworks permit application.

           (2)    Such application shall be filed with the permitting authority no less than 30 calendar days before
                  the date on which the proposed fireworks display is to take place. Such application shall be
                  accompanied by a nonrefundable fee as set forth in the Village fee schedule on file in the Village
                  Clerk's office.

     B.    Bond or insurance.

           (1)    Before granting and issuing a permit for the display of fireworks as herein provided, the
                  permitting authority shall require an adequate bond from the sponsor (unless it is a state entity,
                  or a city, town or village), in a sum to be fixed by the permitting authority, which, however,
                  shall not be less than $1,000,000, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be


                  caused to a person, persons, or to property by reason of the display so permitted and arising
                  from any acts or omissions of the sponsor, operator, or any agent, employee, contractor, or
                  subcontractor thereof. A certificate evidencing the purchase of the bond shall be provided to the
                  Village prior to the date of any proposed fireworks display.

           (2)    The Village may accept, in lieu of such bond, an indemnity insurance policy with liability
                  coverage and indemnity protection equivalent to the terms and conditions upon which such bond
                  would be predicated and for the purposes provided in this section. Such indemnity insurance
                  policy shall name the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as an additional insured. A certificate
                  evidencing the policy shall be submitted to the Village prior to the date of any proposed
                  fireworks display.

     C.    Upon receipt of an application for a fireworks permit, the permitting authority shall review the
           application contents, consult with the Village Fire Chief, and determine whether such application is
           in conformity with the requirements of this chapter. The permitting authority shall not unreasonably
           withhold granting of a permit.

     D.    Denial of an application for a permit shall be in writing, addressed to the sponsor of the permit, setting
           forth the reasons for such denial.

     § 127-5. Revocation of permit.

     If the permitting authority discovers that the sponsor has provided intentionally misleading or false
     information in the application materials, or that the sponsor or operator has otherwise violated any
     provision of this chapter, he/she may deny or revoke the permit prior to the date of the proposed fireworks
     display.

     § 127-6. Additional requirements.

     A.    Pursuant to New York State Penal Law § 405.00, there shall be at least two state-certified operators
           constantly on duty during the discharge of the fireworks display. In addition, at least two approved-
           type fire extinguishers shall be kept within the actual display area, which must be as widely separated
           as possible.

     B.    Notice of the issuance of a fireworks permit shall be mailed not less than seven days prior to the date
           of the fireworks display to all owners of property abutting and within 200 feet of the property for
           which such application is made at the expense of the applicant. In addition, a legal notice shall be
           placed in the Village's official newspaper, at the expense of the applicant, and the Village shall cause
           to be published a notice of the fireworks display on the Village's communication channels, including,
           but not limited to, the Village website, cable access channel and social media accounts.

     C.    The Village reserves the right to have a representative(s) of the permitting authority, the Village Fire
           Department, or other appropriate Village representative(s) attend any fireworks display for which a
           permit is issued.

     D.    The sponsor and operator shall have all permits available and ready for inspection on-site before and
           during the execution of the fireworks display.

     E.    No smoking shall be permitted within 200 feet of any area where fireworks or other related materials
           are being temporarily stored.

     F.    All debris resulting from the fireworks display shall be promptly collected and properly disposed of


     § 127-6                                                FIREWORKS

           by the operator in the manner prescribed by state law.

     § 127-7. Penalties for offenses.

     A.    Any person, legal entity, sponsor, or operator committing an offense against this chapter shall be
           subject to the penalties of Article270 of the New York State Penal Law, and § 405.05 of the New
           York State Penal Law concerning seizure of fireworks.

     B.    Notwithstanding any conviction(s) for violation of state law, violation of this chapter shall constitute
           a violation of the Village Code, subject to a fine of $250 and revocation of any and all permits issued
           pursuant to this chapter. Any such violation will also be considered in determining whether future
           permits under this chapter should be issued to the same sponsor and/or operator.

     C.    The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Village Police Department of the Village of
           Croton-on-Hudson, Code Enforcement Officers of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, or other
           officials designated by the Village Manager.

     § 127-8. Conflict with state law.

     In the event any section, subsection, paragraph, or clause of this chapter is in conflict with § 405 or § 270
     of the State Penal Law, the provisions of the Penal Law are deemed to be incorporated herein and will
     control.


                                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                                        § 129-2
