---
title: "Chapter 19: Elections"
chapter: 19
name: "Elections"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 0
---

ARTICLE I                             § 19-2.               Plurality vote required.
                          Runoff Elections                        § 19-3.               Tie vote.
                                                                  § 19-4.               Effective date.
     § 19-1.              Definitions.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as indicated in
     article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Code of Ethics — See Ch. 20.                                 Public officer indemnification — See Ch. 61.

     Salaries and compensation — See Ch. 54.


                                                        ARTICLE I
                                                      Runoff Elections
                                            [Adopted 1-3-2006 by L.L. No. 1-2006]

     § 19-1. Definitions.

     All terms not defined herein shall have the meanings as set forth in the New York State Election Law.

     § 19-2. Plurality vote required.

     Except as otherwise provided by law, to be elected to a local public office, a candidate must receive more
     votes than any other candidate for the office.

     § 19-3. Tie vote.

     A.    In an election requiring a plurality vote, in the event that more eligible candidates than the number
           remaining to be elected receive for the same office or offices an equal number of votes, a runoff
           election to fill the office shall be held.

     B.    Such runoff election shall be held on the first Tuesday at least 10 days after the final certification of
           the tie result; provided, however, that the only persons who shall be eligible for the runoff election
           shall be those persons who received such equal number of votes.

     C.    The order of the candidates' names on the ballot shall be determined by a drawing conducted by the
           Village Clerk in the presence of all those persons who received such equal number of votes or a
           representative of such persons.

     D.    A runoff election may be waived and the selection of the public officer made by lot if each person
           who has received an equal number of votes files with the Village Clerk, no later than two days after
           the final certification of such tie results, a written notice of consent that the selection be made by lot.

     E.    If a runoff election is waived, the Village Clerk, no later than two days after receiving written notice
           of consent that such selection be made by lot, shall certify such facts in writing and within three days
           summon the candidates to the office of the Village Clerk, and shall, by lot, determine which of them
           shall be elected.

     § 19-4. Effective date.

     This local law shall take effect January 13, 2006.


     § 19-4                                      CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE


                                                             ETHICS, CODE OF                                                   § 20-3
