---
title: "Chapter 178: Professional Fees"
chapter: 178
name: "Professional Fees"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 178-1.              Reimbursement of professional                § 178-3.               Environmental Compliance
                           review fees.                                                        Consultant.
     § 178-2.              Escrow accounts.                             § 178-4.               When effective; applicability.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 1-17-2006 by
     L.L. No. 2-2006. Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                              GENERAL REFERENCES

     Building construction — See Ch. 86.                                Steep slopes — See Ch. 195.

     Environmental compliance — See Ch. 115.                            Trees — See Ch. 208.

     Environmental review — See Ch. 116.                                Waterfront revitalization — See Ch. 225.

     Excavation, filling and topsoil removal — See Ch. 120.             Wetlands and watercourses — See Ch. 227.

     Flood damage prevention — See Ch. 129.                             Zoning — See Ch. 230.


     § 178-1. Reimbursement of professional review fees. [Amended 5-15-2006 by L.L. No. 7-2006]

     The Board of Trustees, the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of Appeals, and the Water Control
     Commission, in the review of any application presented to them, may refer such application to such
     planner, engineer, environmental expert, attorney or other professional as such Board shall deem
     reasonably necessary to enable it to review such application as required by law. Fees charged by such
     professionals shall be in accord with fees usually charged for such services in the metropolitan New York
     region or pursuant to an existing contractual agreement between the Village and such professional. All
     proper charges shall be paid by the Village upon submission of a Village voucher. The applicant shall
     reimburse the Village for the costs of such professional review services upon receipt of a copy of the
     voucher or, at the discretion of the reviewing board, in accordance with § 178-2 of this chapter. The
     payment of such fees shall be required in addition to any and all other fees required by this or any other
     section of this chapter or any other Village law or regulation.

     § 178-2. Escrow accounts.

     A.    At the time of submission of any application, or during the review process, the reviewing board may
           require the establishment of an escrow account from which withdrawals shall be made to reimburse
           the Village for the cost of professional review services. The applicant shall then provide funds to the
           Village for deposit into such account in an amount to be determined by the reviewing board based on
           its evaluation of the nature and complexity of the application. The applicant shall be provided with
           copies of any Village voucher for such services as they are submitted to the Village.

     B.    Where the Board of Trustees, Planning Board, Zoning Board of Appeals or Water Control
           Commission establishes an escrow account for an application, such reviewing board shall not be
           required to consider that application until the deposit required under this chapter has been made.


     § 178-2                                          PROFESSIONAL FEES

           [Amended 5-15-2006 by L.L. No. 7-2006]

     C.    When the balance in such escrow account is reduced to 1/3 of its initial amount, the applicant shall
           deposit additional funds into such account to bring its balance up to the amount of the initial deposit.
           If such account is not replenished within 30 days after the applicant is notified, in writing, of the
           requirement for such additional deposit, the reviewing board may suspend its review of the
           application.

     D.    A building permit or certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless all professional review fees
           charged in connection with the applicant's project have been reimbursed to the Village.

     E.    After all pertinent charges have been paid, the Village shall refund to the applicant any funds
           remaining on deposit.

     § 178-3. Environmental Compliance Consultant.

     The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the Village
     Board in connection with the appointment of an Environmental Compliance Consultant pursuant to
     Chapter 115 of this Code.

     § 178-4. When effective; applicability.

     This chapter shall become effective upon its adoption and filing with the Secretary of State. This chapter
     shall be applicable to applications pending at the time it becomes effective, unless the reviewing board
     shall determine that its application would be impracticable or unjust in the particular circumstances. Where
     this chapter shall be applicable to a pending application, and where no other provision of the Village Code
     requires the payment of such fees, the reviewing board shall require an applicant to pay for fees only for
     services rendered after it shall have become effective.


                                                  CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE
