---
title: "Chapter 185: Recycling"
chapter: 185
name: "Recycling"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 185-1.             Purpose.                                § 185-6.   Right not to collect.
     § 185-2.             Definitions.                            § 185-7.   Nonresidential waste generator
     § 185-3.             Establishment of program.                          plans.
     § 185-4.             Source separation required.             § 185-8.   Penalties for offenses.
     § 185-5.             Collection schedule.                    § 185-9.   Effect on other provisions.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 8-28-2023 by
     L.L. No. 16-2023. Amendments noted where applicable.]


     § 185-1. Purpose.

     It is the purpose of this chapter to comply with § 120-aa of the General Municipal Law of the State of
     New York and with Chapter 825, entitled "Westchester County Source Separation Law," of the Laws of
     Westchester County, as they pertain to recyclable materials. In furtherance of said purpose, Chapter 825
     of the Laws of Westchester County is hereby incorporated by reference into the Code of the Village of
     Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 185-2. Definitions.

     Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms when used in this chapter shall have the
     following meanings:
     ALUMINUM CANS — Containers fabricated of aluminum and commonly used for soda, beer or other
     beverages.
     COMMINGLED — The mixing together of the following recyclables: glass bottles, plastic bottles, metal
     and aluminum cans, gable-top containers, and other like materials should they be deemed a recyclable
     product in the future.
     CORRUGATED CARDBOARD — Non-wax-coated corrugated cardboard containers and boxes.
     COUNTY LAW — Chapter 825, entitled "Westchester County Source Separation Law," of the Laws of
     Westchester County, as they pertain to recyclable materials.

     GABLE-TOP CONTAINERS — Containers including polycoated and paper board like Tetra Paks® or
     aseptic and gable-top cartons, including all milk, cream, and milk substitute beverage containers.
     GLASS BOTTLES — Transparent or translucent jars, bottles and containers which are primarily used for
     packaging and bottling of various products.
     METAL CANS — Containers fabricated primarily of metal, including aluminum cans.
     MUNICIPALLY COLLECTED SOLID WASTE — Household waste and other waste materials routinely
     produced in a household and used household items that are municipally collected, whether by public
     employees or contractors working for the municipality. This material does not include other materials
     defined as bulky metals, bulky wastes, construction and demolition debris, commingled recyclables and
     yard organics.


     NONRESIDENTIAL WASTE GENERATOR — All waste generators other than residential waste
     generators as defined herein.
     PAPER/CARDBOARD — Newspapers, glossy inserts, phone books, magazines, junk mail, brown paper
     bags, and corrugated and grey cardboard boxes. This term excludes waxed cardboard, including gable-
     top containers, plastic and Styrofoam packing materials, cardboard with any trace of food, paperbacks or
     hardcover books.
     PLASTIC BOTTLES/CONTAINERS — Containers made from plastic that are used for carrying or storing
     various products or liquids and that are marked with the recycling logo and identifying numbers (1 through
     7).
     RECYCLABLES — Glass bottles, metal and aluminum cans, paper/cardboard, gable-top containers, and
     plastic bottles and containers, as defined in this chapter.
     RESIDENTIAL WASTE GENERATOR — Any person residing in a single-family or multifamily
     dwelling in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson who produces waste from household functions such as
     cooking, cleaning, etc.
     WASTE GENERATOR — Any person who produces or is responsible for solid waste or recyclables in
     the Village of Croton-on-Hudson requiring disposal.

     § 185-3. Establishment of program.

     There is hereby established a program for the collection of paper, glass bottles, aluminum and metal
     cans, plastic bottles and gable-top containers for the purpose of recycling. The program shall be under the
     direction of the Village Manager, who shall be authorized to establish and promulgate rules and regulations
     to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

     § 185-4. Source separation required.

     All persons who are owners, tenants or occupants of any commercial, residential or industrial building
     shall separate out from municipally or privately collected solid waste left for collection, all paper, glass
     bottles, aluminum and metal cans, plastic bottles and gable-top containers. Separation will be in accordance
     with the provisions of this chapter, county law and those rules and regulations promulgated by the Village
     Manager.

     § 185-5. Collection schedule.

     Materials shall be collected curbside once per week as per an established schedule. Recyclables shall
     be placed curbside not before 5:00 p.m. on the day preceding collection nor later than 7:00 a.m. on the
     scheduled collection date.

     § 185-6. Right not to collect.

     The Village of Croton-on-Hudson or any private carter shall not collect any solid waste or recyclable which
     has not been separated and secured pursuant to the provisions of this county law or the rules and regulations
     so promulgated.

     § 185-7. Nonresidential waste generator plans.

     All nonresidential waste generators who own a building or buildings commonly containing more than 100
     employees, patients or students during a twenty-four-hour period in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall


     § 185-7                                     CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     comply with the regulations outlined in the county law regarding nonresidential waste generator plans.

     § 185-8. Penalties for offenses.

     Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction, be subject to
     the penalties provided by § 1-12 of Chapter 1 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Code.

     § 185-9. Effect on other provisions.

     To the extent that the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with or different from the provisions of
     Chapter 135, the provisions of this chapter shall control.


                                                        RENTAL HOUSING
