---
title: "Chapter 129: Flood Damage Prevention"
chapter: 129
name: "Flood Damage Prevention"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 129-1.              Findings.                                     § 129-11.             Purpose of floodplain
     § 129-2.              Purpose.                                                            development permit; fees.
     § 129-3.              Objectives.                                   § 129-12.             Permit application.
     § 129-4.              Word usage and definitions.                   § 129-13.             Powers and duties of local
     § 129-5.              Applicability.                                                      administrator.
     § 129-6.              Basis for establishing areas of               § 129-14.             General standards.
                           special flood hazard.                         § 129-15.             Standards for all structures.
     § 129-7.              Interpretation and conflict with              § 129-16.             Elevation of residential
                           other laws.                                                         structures.
     § 129-8.              Penalties for offenses.                       § 129-17.             Nonresidential structures.
     § 129-9.              Warning and disclaimer of                     § 129-18.             Manufactured homes and
                           liability.                                                          recreational vehicles.
     § 129-10.             Designation of local                          § 129-19.             Appeals Board.
                           administrator.                                § 129-20.             Conditions for variances.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 6-18-2007 by
     L.L. No. 2-2007.50 Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                              GENERAL REFERENCES

     Excavation, filling and topsoil removal — See Ch. 120.              Wetlands — See Ch. 227.

     Stormwater, drainage, erosion and water pollution control — See     Zoning — See Ch. 230.
     Ch. 196.


     § 129-1. Findings.

     The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson finds that the potential and/or actual damages
     from flooding and erosion may be a problem to the residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and that
     such damages may include destruction or loss of private and public housing, damage to public facilities,
     both publicly and privately owned, and injury to and loss of human life. In order to minimize the threat of
     such damages and to achieve the purposes and objectives hereinafter set forth, this chapter is adopted.

     § 129-2. Purpose.

     It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize
     public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:

     A.    Regulate uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water or erosion hazards or
           which result in damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities.

     50. Editor's Note: This local law superseded former Ch. 129, Flood Damage Prevention, adopted 3-2-1987 by L.L. No. 3-1987, as
         amended.


     B.    Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against
           flood damage at the time of initial construction.

     C.    Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and natural protective barriers which
           are involved in the accommodation of floodwaters.

     D.    Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase erosion or flood
           damages.

     E.    Regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may
           increase flood hazards to other lands.

     F.    Qualify for and maintain participation in the National Flood Insurance Program.

     § 129-3. Objectives.

     The objectives of this chapter are to:

     A.    Protect human life and health.

     B.    Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control projects.

     C.    Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken at
           the expense of the general public.

     D.    Minimize prolonged business interruptions.

     E.    Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone
           and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in areas of special flood hazard.

     F.    Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of areas of special
           flood hazard so as to minimize future flood-blight areas.

     G.    Provide that developers are notified that property is in an area of special flood hazard.

     H.    Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume responsibility for their actions.

     § 129-4. Word usage and definitions.

     A.    Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to
           give them the meanings they have in common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable
           application.

     B.    As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
           APPEAL — A request for a review of the local administrator's interpretation of any provision of this
           chapter or a request for a variance.
           AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING — A designated AO, AH or VO Zone on a community's Flood
           Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one-percent or greater annual chance of flooding to an average
           annual depth of one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of
           flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by
           ponding or sheet flow.
           AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD — The land in the floodplain within a community subject


           to a one-percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This area may be designated as Zone
           A, AE, AH, AO, A1-A30, A99, V, VO, VE or V1-V30. It is also commonly referred to as the "base
           floodplain" or "one-hundred-year floodplain." For purposes of this chapter, the term “special flood
           hazard area (SFHA)” is synonymous in meaning with the phrase “area of special flood hazard.”
           BASE FLOOD — The flood having a one-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
           year.
           BASEMENT — That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
           sides.
           BUILDING — See "structure."
           CELLAR — Has the same meaning as "basement."
           CRAWL SPACE — An enclosed area beneath the lowest elevated floor, 18 inches or more in
           height, which is used to service the underside of the lowest floor. The elevation of the floor of this
           enclosed area, which may be of soil, gravel, concrete or other material, must be equal to or above
           the lowest adjacent exterior grade. The enclosed crawl space shall be properly vented to allow for the
           equalization of hydrostatic forces which would be experienced during periods of flooding.
           DEVELOPMENT — Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but
           not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, paving, excavation or drilling
           operations or storage of equipment or materials.
           ELEVATED BUILDING —

           (1)    A nonbasement building:

                  (a)    Built, in the case of a building in Zones A1-A30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X or D,
                         to have the top of the elevated floor or, in the case of a building in Zones V1-V30, VE
                         or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
                         elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers) or shear
                         walls parallel to the flow of the water; and

                  (b)    Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
                         flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.

           (2)    In the case of Zones A1-A30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X or D, "elevated building" also
                  includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings
                  sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters.

           (3)    In the case of Zones V1-V30, VE or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise
                  meeting the definition of "elevated building," even though the lower area is enclosed by means
                  of breakaway walls that meet the federal standards.
           FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY — The federal agency that administers the
           National Flood Insurance Program.
           FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM) — An official map of the community
           published by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as part of a riverine community's Flood
           Insurance Study. The FBFM delineates a regulatory floodway along watercourses studied in detail in
           the Flood Insurance Study.
           FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY — An examination, evaluation and determination of the flood
           hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations or an examination, evaluation and


           determination of flood-related erosion hazards.
           FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM) — An official map of a community issued by the
           Federal Emergency Management Agency where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
           have been designated as Zone A but no flood elevations are provided.
           FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) — An official map of a community on which the
           Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and
           the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
           FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY — See "flood elevation study."
           FLOOD or FLOODING —

           (1)    A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas
                  from:

                  (a)    The overflow of inland or tidal waters.

                  (b)    The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.

           (2)    "Flood" or "flooding" also means the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
                  other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water
                  exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a
                  natural body of water accompanied by a severe storm or by an unanticipated force of nature,
                  such as a flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable
                  event which results in flooding as defined in Subsection (1)(a) above.
           FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA — Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water
           from any source. (See "flooding.")
           FLOODPROOFING — Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes or
           adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
           property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
           FLOODWAY — See "regulatory floodway."
           FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE — A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless
           it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port facility necessary
           for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding and ship repair facilities. The term
           does not include long-term storage, manufacturing, sales or service facilities.
           HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE — The highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to
           construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
           HISTORIC STRUCTURE — Any structure that is:

           (1)    Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the
                  Department of the Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as
                  meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;

           (2)    Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to the
                  historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by
                  the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;

           (3)    Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic preservation
                  programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or


           (4)    Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
                  preservation programs that have been certified either by an approved state program as
                  determined by the Secretary of the Interior or directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states
                  without approved programs.
           LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR — The person appointed by the community to administer and
           implement this chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions.
           This person is often the Building Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, or employee of an
           engineering department.
           LOWEST FLOOR — Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement or cellar). An
           unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
           storage, in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's "lowest floor," provided
           that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation
           design requirements of this chapter.
           MANUFACTURED HOME — A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on
           a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected
           to the required utilities. The term does not include a recreational vehicle.
           MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION — A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
           divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
           MEAN SEA LEVEL — For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the National
           Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88),
           or other datum to which base flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map
           are referenced.
           MOBILE HOME — See "manufactured home."
           NEW CONSTRUCTION — Structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
           effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the community, and includes any
           subsequent improvements to such structure.
           ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD — See "base flood."
           PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND — At least 51% of the actual cash value of the structure,
           excluding land value, is above ground.
           RECREATIONAL VEHICLE — A vehicle which is:

           (1)    Built on a single chassis;

           (2)    Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;

           (3)    Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck; and

           (4)    Not designed primarily for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for
                  recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
           REGULATORY FLOODWAY — The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
           areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
           the water surface elevation more than a designated height as determined by the Federal Emergency
           Management Agency in a Flood Insurance Study or by other agencies as provided in § 129-13B of
           this chapter.
           START OF CONSTRUCTION — The date of permit issuance for new construction and substantial


           improvements to existing structures, provided that actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
           rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement is within 180 days after the date of issuance.
           The actual start of construction means the first placement of permanent construction of a building
           (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, installation of
           pilings or construction of columns.
           STRUCTURE — A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is
           principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
           SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE — Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
           restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market
           value of the structure before the damage occurred.
           SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT — Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
           improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
           structure before the start of construction of the improvement. The term includes structures which
           have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
           however, include either:

           (1)    Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health,
                  sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
                  official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or

           (2)    Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
                  structure's continued designation as an historic structure.
           VARIANCE — A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits construction or
           use in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.

     § 129-5. Applicability.

     This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the Village of Croton-
     on-Hudson, Westchester County.

     § 129-6. Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard.

     A.    The areas of special flood hazard for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Community Number 360907,
           are identified and defined on the following documents prepared by the Federal Emergency
           Management Agency:

           (1)    Flood Insurance Rate Map Panel Numbers 36119C0106F, 36119C0107F, 36119C0108F,
                  36119C0109F, 36119C0117F, 36119C0126F, 36119C0128F, 36119C0136F, the effective date
                  of which is September 28, 2007, and any subsequent revisions to these map panels that do not
                  affect areas under our community's jurisdiction.

           (2)    A scientific and engineering report entitled “Flood Insurance Study, Westchester County, New
                  York, All Jurisdictions,” dated September 28, 2007.

     B.    The above documents are hereby adopted and declared to be a part of this chapter. The Flood
           Insurance Study and/or maps are on file at the Village Engineer's office in the Stanley H. Kellerhouse
           Municipal Building.

     § 129-7. Interpretation and conflict with other laws.


     A.    This chapter includes all revisions to the National Flood Insurance Program through March 1, 2007,
           and shall supersede all previous laws adopted for the purpose of flood damage prevention.

     B.    In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
           requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety and welfare. Whenever the
           requirements of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
           regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive or that imposing the highest standards shall govern.

     § 129-8. Penalties for offenses.

     No structure in an area of special flood hazard shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted
     or altered and no land shall be excavated or filled without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
     and any other applicable regulations. Any infraction of the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply
     with any of its requirements, including infractions of conditions and safeguards established in connection
     with conditions of the permit, shall constitute a violation. Any person who violates this chapter or fails
     to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined no more than $250 or
     imprisoned for not more than 15 days, or both. Each day of noncompliance shall be considered a separate
     offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village of Croton-on-Hudson from taking such other
     lawful action as necessary to prevent or remedy an infraction. Any structure found not compliant with the
     requirements of this chapter for which the developer and/or owner has not applied for and received an
     approved variance under §§ 129-19 and 129-20 will be declared noncompliant and notification sent to the
     Federal Emergency Management Agency.

     § 129-9. Warning and disclaimer of liability.

     The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes
     and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare
     occasions. Flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply
     that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
     flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson, any officer or employee thereof or the Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood
     damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.

     § 129-10. Designation of local administrator.

     The Village Engineer is hereby appointed local administrator to administer and implement this chapter by
     granting or denying floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions.

     § 129-11. Purpose of floodplain development permit; fees.

     A.    Purpose. A floodplain development permit is hereby established for all construction and other
           development to be undertaken in areas of special flood hazard in this community for the purpose of
           protecting its citizens from increased flood hazards and ensuring that new development is constructed
           in a manner that minimizes its exposure to flooding. It shall be unlawful to undertake any
           development in an area of special flood hazard, as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
           enumerated in § 129-6, without a valid floodplain development permit. Application for a permit shall
           be made on forms furnished by the local administrator and may include but not be limited to plans, in
           duplicate, drawn to scale and showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in
           question, existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location
           of the foregoing.


     B.    Fees. All applications for a floodplain development permit shall be accompanied by an application
           fee as set from time to time by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees. In addition, the applicant
           shall be responsible for reimbursing the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for any additional costs
           necessary for review, inspection and approval of this project. The local administrator may require a
           deposit of no more than $500 to cover these additional costs.

     § 129-12. Permit application.

     The applicant shall provide the following information as appropriate; additional information may be
     required on the permit application form:

     A.    The proposed elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor (including basement or
           cellar) of any new or substantially improved structure to be located in Zones A1-A30, AE or AH or
           Zone A if base flood elevation data is available. Upon completion of the lowest floor, the permittee
           shall submit to the local administrator the as-built elevation, certified by a licensed professional
           engineer or surveyor.

     B.    The proposed elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any new or substantially improved
           nonresidential structure will be floodproofed. Upon completion of the floodproofed portion of the
           structure, the permittee shall submit to the local administrator the as-built floodproofed elevation,
           certified by a professional engineer or surveyor.

     C.    A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect that any utility floodproofing will meet
           the criteria in § 129-15C, Utilities.

     D.    A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect that any nonresidential floodproofed
           structure will meet the floodproofing criteria in § 129-17, Nonresidential structures (except coastal
           high-hazard areas).

     E.    A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
           proposed development. Computations by a licensed professional engineer must be submitted that
           demonstrate that the altered or relocated segment will provide equal or greater conveyance than the
           original stream segment. The applicant must submit any maps, computations or other material
           required by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to revise the documents
           enumerated in § 129-6, when notified by the local administrator, and must pay any fees or other costs
           assessed by FEMA for this purpose. The applicant must also provide assurances that the conveyance
           capacity of the altered or relocated stream segment will be maintained.

     F.    A technical analysis, by a licensed professional engineer, if required by the local administrator, which
           shows whether proposed development to be located in an area of special flood hazard may result in
           physical damage to any other property.

     G.    In Zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available from other sources, base flood elevation
           data shall be provided by the permit applicant for subdivision proposals and other proposed
           developments (including proposals for manufactured home and recreational vehicle parks and
           subdivisions) that are greater than either 50 lots or five acres.

     § 129-13. Powers and duties of local administrator.

     Duties of the local administrator shall include but not be limited to the following:

     A.    Permit application review. The local administrator shall conduct the following permit application


           review before issuing a floodplain development permit:

           (1)    Review all applications for completeness, particularly with the requirements of § 129-12, Permit
                  application, and for compliance with the provisions and standards of this chapter.

           (2)    Review subdivision and other proposed new development, including manufactured home parks,
                  to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
                  proposed building site is located in an area of special flood hazard, all new construction and
                  substantial improvements shall meet the applicable standards of §§ 129-14 through 129-18 and,
                  in particular, § 129-14A, Subdivision proposals.

           (3)    Determine whether any proposed development in an area of special flood hazard may result in
                  physical damage to any other property (e.g., stream bank erosion and increased flood velocities).
                  The local administrator may require the applicant to submit additional technical analyses and
                  data necessary to complete the determination. If the proposed development may result in
                  physical damage to any other property or fails to meet the requirements of §§ 129-14 through
                  129-18, no permit shall be issued. The applicant may revise the application to include measures
                  that mitigate or eliminate the adverse effects and resubmit the application.

           (4)    Determine that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies
                  from which approval is required by state or federal law.

     B.    Use of other flood data.

           (1)    When the Federal Emergency Management Agency has designated areas of special flood hazard
                  on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) but has neither produced water surface
                  elevation data (these areas are designated Zone A or V on the FIRM) nor identified a floodway,
                  the local administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and
                  floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant
                  to § 129-12G, as criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial improvements or other
                  proposed development meet the requirements of this chapter.

           (2)    When base flood elevation data is not available, the local administrator may use flood
                  information from any other authoritative source, such as historical data, to establish flood
                  elevations within the areas of special flood hazard, for the purposes of this chapter.

     C.    Alteration of watercourses. The local administrator shall:

           (1)    Notify adjacent communities and the New York State Department of Environmental
                  Conservation prior to permitting any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
                  evidence of such notification to the Regional Director, Region II, Federal Emergency
                  Management Agency.

           (2)    Determine that the permit holder has provided for maintenance within the altered or relocated
                  portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished.

     D.    Construction stage. The local administrator shall:

           (1)    In Zones A1-A30, AE and AH and also Zone A, if base flood elevation data is available, upon
                  placement of the lowest floor or completion of floodproofing of a new or substantially improved
                  structure, obtain from the permit holder a certification of the as-built elevation of the lowest
                  floor or floodproofed elevation in relation to mean sea level. The certificate shall be prepared
                  by or under the direct supervision of a licensed land surveyor or professional engineer and


                  certified by the same. For manufactured homes, the permit holder shall submit the certificate
                  of elevation upon placement of the structure on the site. A certificate of elevation must also be
                  submitted for a recreational vehicle if it remains on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer
                  (unless it is fully licensed and ready for highway use).

           (2)    Any further work undertaken prior to submission and approval of the certification shall be at the
                  permit holder's risk. The local administrator shall review all data submitted. Deficiencies
                  detected shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project unless immediately corrected.

     E.    Inspections. The local administrator and/or the developer's engineer or architect shall make periodic
           inspections at appropriate times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance
           with permit conditions and enable said inspector to certify, if requested, that the development is in
           compliance with the requirements of the floodplain development permit and/or any variance
           provisions.

     F.    Stop-work orders.

           (1)    The local administrator shall issue or cause to be issued a stop-work order for any floodplain
                  development found ongoing without a development permit. Disregard of a stop-work order shall
                  subject the violator to the penalties described in § 129-8 of this chapter.

           (2)    The local administrator shall issue or cause to be issued a stop-work order for any floodplain
                  development found noncompliant with the provisions of this chapter and/or the conditions of
                  the development permit. Disregard of a stop-work order shall subject the violator to the penalties
                  described in § 129-8 of this chapter.

     G.    Certificate of compliance.

           (1)    In areas of special flood hazard, as determined by documents enumerated in § 129-6, it shall be
                  unlawful to occupy or to permit the use or occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or
                  part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or
                  enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of compliance has been issued by the local
                  administrator stating that the building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.

           (2)    A certificate of compliance shall be issued by the local administrator upon satisfactory
                  completion of all development in areas of special flood hazard.

           (3)    Issuance of the certificate shall be based upon the inspections conducted as prescribed in
                  Subsection E, Inspections, and/or any certified elevations, hydraulic data, floodproofing,
                  anchoring requirements or encroachment analyses which may have been required as a condition
                  of the approved permit.

     H.    Information to be retained. The local administrator shall retain and make available for inspection
           copies of the following:

           (1)    Floodplain development permits and certificates of compliance.

           (2)    Certificates of as-built lowest floor elevations of structures, required pursuant to Subsection
                  D(1) and (2), and whether or not the structures contain a basement.

           (3)    Floodproofing certificates required pursuant to Subsection D(1) and whether or not the
                  structures contain a basement.

           (4)    Variances issued pursuant to §§ 129-19 and 129-20.


           (5)    Notices required under § 129-13C, Alteration of watercourses.

     § 129-14. General standards.

     The following standards apply to new development, including new and substantially improved structures,
     in the areas of special flood hazard shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map designated in § 129-6:

     A.    Subdivision proposals. The following standards apply to all new subdivision proposals and other
           proposed development in areas of special flood hazard (including proposals for manufactured home
           and recreational vehicle parks and subdivisions):

           (1)    Proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.

           (2)    Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems shall be located
                  and constructed so as to minimize flood damage.

           (3)    Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.

     B.    Encroachments.

           (1)    Within Zones A1-A30 and AE, on streams without a regulatory floodway, no new construction,
                  substantial improvements or other development (including fill) shall be permitted unless:

                  (a)    The applicant demonstrates that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
                         combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water
                         surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any location; or

                  (b)    The Village of Croton-on-Hudson agrees to apply to the Federal Emergency Management
                         Agency (FEMA) for a conditional FIRM revision, FEMA approval is received and the
                         applicant provides all necessary data, analyses and mapping and reimburses the Village of
                         Croton-on-Hudson for all fees and other costs in relation to the application. The applicant
                         must also provide all data, analyses and mapping and reimburse the Village of Croton-on-
                         Hudson for all costs related to the final map revision.

           (2)    On streams with a regulatory floodway, as shown on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map or
                  the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in § 129-6, no new construction, substantial
                  improvements or other development in the floodway (including fill) shall be permitted unless:

                  (a)    A technical evaluation by a licensed professional engineer shows that such an
                         encroachment shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
                         base flood; or

                  (b)    The Village of Croton-on-Hudson agrees to apply to the Federal Emergency Management
                         Agency (FEMA) for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision, FEMA approval is
                         received and the applicant provides all necessary data, analyses and mapping and
                         reimburses the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for all fees and other costs in relation to the
                         application. The applicant must also provide all data, analyses and mapping and reimburse
                         the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for all costs related to the final map revisions.

     § 129-15. Standards for all structures.

     A.    Anchoring. New structures and substantial improvement to structures in areas of special flood hazard
           shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement during the base flood. This


           requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
           forces.

     B.    Construction materials and methods.

           (1)    New construction and substantial improvements to structures shall be constructed with materials
                  and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.

           (2)    New construction and substantial improvements to structures shall be constructed using
                  methods and practices that minimize flood damage.

           (3)    Enclosed areas.

                  (a)    For enclosed areas below the lowest floor of a structure within Zones A1-A30, AE or AH
                         and also Zone A, if base flood elevation data is available, new and substantially improved
                         structures shall have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for
                         parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
                         are subject to flooding designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
                         exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
                         requirement must either be certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect or
                         meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:

                         [1]      A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch
                                  for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.

                         [2]      The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the lowest
                                  adjacent finished grade.

                  (b)    Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other coverings or devices,
                         provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Enclosed areas
                         subgrade on all sides are considered basements and are not permitted.

     C.    Utilities.

           (1)    New and replacement electrical equipment, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing
                  connections, and other service equipment shall be located at or above the base flood elevation.
                  Electrical wiring and outlets, switches, junction boxes and panels shall be elevated to or above
                  the base flood elevation unless they conform to the appropriate provisions of the electrical part
                  of the Building Code of New York State or the Residential Code of New York State for location
                  of such items in wet locations.

           (2)    New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
                  infiltration of floodwaters into the system.

           (3)    New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
                  infiltration of floodwaters. Sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems for buildings that have
                  openings below the base flood elevation shall be provided with automatic backflow valves or
                  other automatic backflow devices that are installed in each discharge line passing through a
                  building's exterior wall.

           (4)    On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination
                  from them during flooding.


     § 129-16. Elevation of residential structures.

     The following standards, in addition to the standards in § 129-14A, Subdivision proposals, and § 129-14B,
     Encroachments, and § 129-15, Standards for all structures, apply to structures located in areas of special
     flood hazard as indicated:

     A.    Within Zones A1-A30, AE and AH and also Zone A, if base flood elevation data is available, new
           construction and substantial improvements shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
           to or above the base flood level.

     B.    Within Zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available, new and substantially improved
           structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least three feet above the
           highest adjacent grade.

     C.    Within Zone AO, new and substantially improved structures shall have the lowest floor (including
           basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as two feet above the depth
           number specified in feet on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map enumerated in § 129-6 (at
           least two feet if no depth number is specified).

     D.    Within Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths are required to guide floodwaters around and
           away from proposed structures on slopes.

     § 129-17. Nonresidential structures.

     The following standards apply to new and substantially improved commercial, industrial and other
     nonresidential structures, in addition to the requirements in § 129-14A, Subdivision proposals, and
     § 129-14B, Encroachments, and § 129-15, Standards for all structures.

     A.    Within Zones A1-A30, AE and AH and also Zone A, if base flood elevation data is available, new
           construction and substantial improvements of any nonresidential structure, together with attendant
           utility and sanitary facilities, shall either:

           (1)    Have the lowest floor, including basement or cellar, elevated to or above two feet above the base
                  flood elevation; or

           (2)    Be floodproofed so that the structure is watertight below two feet above the base flood level
                  with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural components located
                  below the base flood level must be capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
                  the effects of buoyancy.

     B.    Within Zone AO, new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential structures shall:

           (1)    Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as
                  high as two feet above the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least
                  two feet if no depth number is specified); or

           (2)    Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be completely floodproofed to that level
                  to meet the floodproofing standard specified in Subsection A(2).

     C.    If the structure is to be floodproofed, a licensed professional engineer or architect shall develop and/
           or review structural design, specifications and plans for construction. A floodproofing certificate or
           other certification shall be provided to the local administrator that certifies that the design and
           methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the


           provisions of Subsection A(2), including the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
           the structure is to be floodproofed.

     D.    Within Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths are required to guide floodwaters around and
           away from proposed structures on slopes.

     E.    Within Zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available, the lowest floor (including basement)
           shall be elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.

     § 129-18. Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.

     The following standards, in addition to the standards in § 129-14, General standards, and § 129-15,
     Standards for all structures, apply, as indicated, in areas of special flood hazard to manufactured homes
     and to recreational vehicles which are located in areas of special flood hazard.

     A.    Recreational vehicles.

           (1)    Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-A30, AE and AH shall either:

                  (a)    Be on site fewer than 180 consecutive days;

                  (b)    Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or

                  (c)    Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in Subsections B, D and E.

           (2)    A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
                  attached to the site only by quick-disconnect-type utilities and security devices and has no
                  permanently attached additions.

     B.    A manufactured home that is placed or substantially improved in Zones A1-A30, AE and AH shall
           be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor is elevated to or above the base
           flood elevation and is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
           flotation, collapse and lateral movement.

     C.    Within Zone A, when no base flood elevation data are available, new and substantially improved
           manufactured homes shall be elevated such that the manufactured home chassis is supported by
           reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36
           inches in height above grade and are securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
           to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.

     D.    Within Zone AO, the floor shall be elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
           depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map enumerated in § 129-6 (at least two feet if
           no depth number is specified).

     § 129-19. Appeals Board.

     A.    The Zoning Board of Appeals as established by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall hear and
           decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.

     B.    The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is an error in
           any requirement, decision or determination made by the local administrator in the enforcement or
           administration of this chapter.

     C.    Those aggrieved by the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals may appeal such decision to the


           Supreme Court pursuant to Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules.

     D.    In passing upon such applications, the Zoning Board of Appeals, shall consider all technical
           evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of this chapter and:

           (1)    The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others.

           (2)    The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.

           (3)    The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of
                  such damage on the individual owner.

           (4)    The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community.

           (5)    The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable.

           (6)    The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are not subject to flooding
                  or erosion damage.

           (7)    The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development.

           (8)    The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and floodplain management
                  program of that area.

           (9)    The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles.

           (10) The costs to local governments and the dangers associated with conducting search-and-rescue
                operations during periods of flooding.

           (11) The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the floodwaters
                and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site.

           (12) The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions, including
                search-and-rescue operations and maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such
                as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and bridges.

     E.    Upon consideration of the factors of Subsection D and the purposes of this chapter, the Zoning Board
           of Appeals may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
           the purpose of this chapter.

     F.    The local administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal actions, including technical
           information, and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.

     § 129-20. Conditions for variances.

     A.    Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected
           on a lot of 1/2 acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
           constructed below the base flood level, provided that the items in § 129-19D(1) through (12) have
           been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the 1/2 acre, the technical justification
           required for issuing the variance increases.

     B.    Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon determination that:

           (1)    The proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as
                  an historic structure.


     § 129-20                                  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION

           (2)    The variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
                  structure.

     C.    Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and substantial improvements and for
           other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use, provided that:

           (1)    The criteria of Subsections A, D, E and F of this section are met.

           (2)    The structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during
                  the base flood and create no additional threat to public safety.

     D.    Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during
           the base flood discharge would result.

     E.    Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
           considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.

     F.    Variances shall only be issued upon receiving written justification of:

           (1)    A showing of good and sufficient cause.

           (2)    A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the
                  applicant.

           (3)    A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
                  additional threats to public safety or extraordinary public expense; create nuisances; cause fraud
                  on or victimization of the public; or conflict with existing chapters or ordinances.

     G.    Notification.

           (1)    Any applicant to whom a variance is granted for a building with the lowest floor below the base
                  flood elevation shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:

                  (a)    The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood level will result in
                         increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of
                         insurance coverage; and

                  (b)    Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and property.

           (2)    Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all variance actions as required in
                  § 129-13H of this chapter.


                                                  CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE
