---
title: "Chapter 125: Fire Prevention"
chapter: 125
name: "Fire Prevention"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 0
---

ARTICLE I                            § 125-6.             Notice of violation; summons.
                        Fire Prevention Code                      § 125-7.             Service of orders.
                                                                  § 125-8.             Refusal to permit inspection.
     § 125-1.               Title.                                § 125-9.             Failure to comply with order.
     § 125-2.               Definitions.                          § 125-10.            Damage to fire apparatus.
     § 125-3.               Adoption of standards.                § 125-11.            Penalties for offenses.
     § 125-4.               Enforcement and inspection.
     § 125-5.               Inspection of fire hazards;
                            designation of fire zones.


     [HISTORY Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Art. I, 9-19-1988
     by L.L. No. 7-1988. Section 125-11 amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General
     Provisions, Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Penalties for offenses — See Ch. 1, § 1-12.                  Fireworks — See Ch. 127.

     Fire alarm systems — See Ch. 70.                             Housing standards — See Ch. 141.

     Building construction — See Ch. 86.                          Removal of brush and weeds — See Ch. 179.

     Unsafe buildings — See Ch. 90.                               Fire hydrants and sprinklers — See Ch. 223.

     Electrical standards — See Ch. 113.


                                                        ARTICLE I
                                                   Fire Prevention Code
                                           [Adopted 9-19-1988 by L.L. No. 7-1988]

     § 125-1. Title.

     This Article shall be known and may be cited as the "Fire Prevention Code of the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson."

     § 125-2. Definitions.

     As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     CHIEF — The Chief of the Fire Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
     DEPARTMENT — The Fire Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
     INSPECTOR — The Fire Inspector of the Fire Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
     VILLAGE — The Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 125-3. Adoption of standards.

     There is hereby adopted by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for the purpose of prescribing regulations
     governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion Subchapter C of the New York
     State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as
     fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this Article shall take effect the provisions
     thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the village.

     § 125-4. Enforcement and inspection.

     A.    Subchapter C of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code shall be enforced
           by the Inspector in the Fire Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     B.    The Chief is permitted to detail such members of the Fire Department as Inspectors as shall from time
           to time be necessary.

     C.    A report by the Inspector shall be made annually and transmitted to the Chief and the Village
           Manager. It shall contain all proceedings under this code, with such statistics as the Chief decides to
           include therein. The Chief shall also recommend any amendments to the code which, in his judgment,
           shall be desirable.

     D.    The Chief may request and shall receive, so far as may be necessary, in the discharge of his duties,
           the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the municipality.

     § 125-5. Inspection of fire hazards; designation of fire zones. [Amended 5-14-2025 by L.L. No.
     7-2025]

     A.    The Inspector is hereby authorized and empowered at any and all reasonable times, and as often as
           necessary, to enter upon and inspect all buildings and premises with the exception of one- and two-
           family dwellings, and townhouses, and all the interior streets, roadways and driveways thereof, to
           determine whether there exist violations of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building
           Code or any conditions therein conducive to danger from fire, whether there are obstructions to


           property, fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors and windows which might impede the operations
           of the Fire Department or block the ingress and egress to said Department in the event of fire and
           whether there are any conditions existing on said premises creating danger to life or property in the
           event of fire. The fee for such inspection(s) shall be in an amount set by resolution of the Board of
           Trustees.

     B.    The Village shall promptly present to the owner or occupant of each property a bill for the
           inspection(s) as provided herein. The bill will set forth the process for the owner or occupant to appeal
           the charges to the Village Manager. If any such bill is not paid within 30 days, the costs set forth
           thereon shall be assessed against the property, added to the tax bill for the property, and become a
           lien thereon, collectible in the same manner as delinquent Village taxes and assessments. Any appeal
           must be filed with the Village Manager within 10 days of the bill and must set forth the reason why
           the owner or occupant believes the cost should not be payable by the owner or occupant under the
           provisions of this section. If requested, the owner or occupant will be given the opportunity to discuss
           their position with the Village Manager. The decision of the Village Manager shall be made within
           10 days after receipt of the appeal or any such discussion and shall be final.

     C.    The Chief, in coordination with the Village Manager, shall designate such areas at, on or near any
           interior street, roadway or driveway which, if obstructed by the parking or placing of any automobile,
           truck, motor vehicle or any physical object or material, will cause interference with the ingress and
           egress of fire-fighting equipment or which, if obstructed in any way, will create a condition which is
           dangerous to life or property in the event of fire. Such areas shall thereupon be marked by the property
           owner with the required uniform signs and/or such other markings deemed necessary and proper by
           the Chief, indicating that said area is restricted a fire zone. The parking or placing of any automobile,
           truck, motor vehicle or physical object or material within any such restricted fire zone is hereby
           expressly prohibited. If the signs and/or markings are not installed within the time frame specified by
           the Chief, said signs and markings shall be installed at the expense of the owner of the property, who
           shall promptly pay to the Village Treasurer the actual cost thereof as certified in writing to said
           Village Treasurer by the Chief. Notwithstanding and not in limitation of any other provision hereof,
           no automobile, truck or other motor vehicle and no physical object or material of any nature whatever
           shall be parked, placed or permitted to remain for any length of time whatever within 15 feet of any
           fire hydrant or standpipe located at, on or near any interior street, roadway or driveway within any
           premises described in this section.

     § 125-6. Notice of violation; summons.

     Any police officer of the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department or the Parking Enforcement Officer shall
     issue a summons for the violation of this article to the owner of or any person operating or controlling any
     automobile, truck, motor vehicle, physical object or material parked or placed within any restricted fire
     zone as hereby designated. Whenever any other violation of any of the provisions of this Article is found
     to exist, it shall be reported by the Chief to the Village Engineer, who shall then issue an order directed
     to the owner or occupant of the premises affected to remove any dangerous materials or remedy any other
     hazardous conditions as he may direct, within 24 hours; and upon the failure or refusal of the person to
     whom such order is directed duly to comply therewith and upon complaint of the Chief, a summons shall
     be issued to such person for such violation.

     § 125-7. Service of orders.

     The service of any order hereunder may be made upon the occupant of the premises to which it is directed,
     either by delivering a copy of the same personally or by leaving it with any person of suitable age and


     discretion in charge of such premises or, if no such person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy
     thereof in a conspicuous place on the front door of said premises. An order may be served upon the owner
     of such premises by delivering to and leaving with him a copy thereof or, if such owner is absent from the
     village, by mailing a copy to his last known address.

     § 125-8. Refusal to permit inspection.

     It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to refuse to permit an inspection as provided herein.

     § 125-9. Failure to comply with order.

     It shall be unlawful for any person, being the owner or occupant, lessee or otherwise in charge or control of
     any premises subject to an order made pursuant to this Article, to fail or refuse to comply with such order
     within the time specified or to violate any of the provisions of this Article.

     § 125-10. Damage to fire apparatus.

     If any person willfully damages, in any manner, any apparatus belonging to the village used in the
     prevention and control of fires, he or she will be held liable for all consequences of said action. The
     offender may also be subject to any or all of the following: arrest and prosecution for criminal action,
     prosecution for the recovery of damages, immediate dismissal from the Department and forfeit of all pay
     and pension, if any, and such offender shall be subject to a fine to be set by the Village Board of Trustees.

     § 125-11. Penalties for offenses.49

     Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of Subchapter C of the New York State Uniform
     Fire Prevention and Building Code shall be punished as provided in § 382 of the Executive Law. Any
     violation of any provision of this Article which is not punishable under § 382 of the Executive Law shall
     be punishable as provided in § 1-12 of Chapter 1, General Provisions.


     49. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


     § 125-11                                           FIRE PREVENTION


                                                 CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                     § 127-3
