---
title: "Chapter 160: Noise"
chapter: 160
name: "Noise"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 160-1.               Statement of policy.                          § 160-6.               Penalties for offenses.
     § 160-2.               Definitions.                                  § 160-7.               Exceptions.
     § 160-3.               Standards for determination.                  § 160-8.               Effect of other provisions.
     § 160-4.               Enumeration of prohibited                     § 160-9.               Enforcement.
                            noises.                                       § 160-10.              When effective.
     § 160-5.               Methods of measurement.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 9-26-1994 by
     L.L. No. 9-1994.56 Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                           GENERAL REFERENCES

     Penalties for offenses — See Ch. 1, § 1-12.                          Firearms — See Ch. 123.

     Alarm systems — See Ch. 70.                                          Noise in parks — See Ch. 168.

     Blasting — See Ch. 81.


     § 160-1. Statement of policy.

     It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to prevent excessive, unnecessary
     or unusually loud noise which may jeopardize the well-being, public health, comfort, convenience, safety
     and welfare of its citizens and the peace and quiet of its inhabitants. The provisions and prohibitions
     hereinafter contained shall not be utilized or construed in any manner so as to deny or limit any right or
     privilege granted and recognized by the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.

     § 160-2. Definitions.

     Unless otherwise indicated by context, the following terms and phrases shall have the following meanings:
     DECIBEL(dB) — A unit for measuring the volume of sound, equal to 20 times the logarithm to the base
     10 of the ratio of the sound pressure of 20 micronewtons per square meter.
     HOLIDAYS — New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and
     Christmas Day.
     SOUND LEVEL — The sound-pressure level measured in decibels with a sound-level meter set to a
     weighting expressed in dB(A).
     SOUND-LEVEL METER — An instrument for the measurement of sound levels which conforms to Type
     1 or Type 2 standards under ANSI Specifications S1.4-1971 or the latest approved revision thereof.
     UNREASONABLY INTRUSIVE — Any sound which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
     the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities under the

     56. Editor's Note: This local law also supersedes former Ch. 160, Noise, adopted 10-3-1977 by L.L. No. 16-1977.


     circumstances.

     § 160-3. Standards for determination. [Amended 12-4-1995 by L.L. No. 11-1995]

     The standard or standards to be considered in determining whether a noise is an unreasonably intrusive
     noise which constitutes a prohibited noise shall include, but not be limited to, one or more of the following:

     A.    The volume of the noise.

     B.    The intensity of the noise.

     C.    Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual.

     D.    Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural.

     E.    The volume and intensity of the background noise, if any.

     F.    The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities.

     G.    The nature and the zoning district of the area within which the noise emanates.

     H.    The time of day or night the noise occurs.

     I.    The time duration of the noise.

     J.    Whether the noise is temporary.

     K.    Whether the noise is continuous or impulsive.

     L.    The presence of discrete tones.

     § 160-4. Enumeration of prohibited noises.

     The following acts, among others, are declared to be noises in violation of this chapter, but said
     enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:

     A.    The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle,
           except as a warning signal pursuant to the provisions of the Vehicle and Traffic Law of the State of
           New York.

     B.    Playing, using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio, television,
           phonograph, musical instrument or instruments, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or
           device for the production or reproduction of sound so as to create an unreasonably intrusive noise.

     C.    Playing, using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio, television,
           phonograph, musical instrument or instruments, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or
           device for the production or reproduction of sound exceeding 65 dB(A) at any time within a
           residential district or within any other district exceeding 70 dB(A) between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
           and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Saturday or exceeding 65 dB(A) between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
           Saturday and 10:00 a.m. Sunday or exceeding 65 dB(A) between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 11:59
           p.m. on holidays as defined in this chapter.

     D.    The keeping or harboring of any animal, fowl or bird which, by causing frequent or long-continued
           noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person residing in the vicinity.


     E.     The blowing of any whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin
            work or stop work or as a warning of danger.

     F.     The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal-combustion
            engine, air compressor, motorcycle engine or motor vehicle engine, except through a muffler or other
            device which effectively prevents loud, unusual or explosive noise so as to create unreasonably
            intrusive noise.

     G.     Construction work, including but not limited to building, repairing, blasting, grading, leveling and
            excavating, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Saturday and between the
            hours of 8:00 p.m. Saturday and 10:00 a.m. Sunday.

     H.     The operation of power lawn mowers, rakers or leaf blowers or other motor-driven lawn or garden
            equipment between the hours of 6:00 p.m. Sunday and 8:00 a.m. Monday, between the hours of 8:00
            p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. Friday and 9:00 a.m.
            Saturday, and between the hours of 6:00 p.m. Saturday and 10:00 a.m. Sunday. [Amended 9-2-2008
            by L.L. No. 5-2008; 9-6-2011 by L.L. No. 3-2011]

     I.     Notwithstanding the time constraints in Subsection H above, the operation of gas-powered leaf
            blowers is prohibited between June 1 and August 31, 2022, as well as January 1 and March 31, 2023,
            and every year thereafter. Between the aforementioned periods of each year, the Village Manager or
            his designee shall determine whether the use of gas-powered leaf blowers by the general public after
            significant storm events or other emergency circumstances shall be permitted for a period of time not
            to exceed seven days. The provisions hereof shall not be deemed to prevent the use of gas-powered
            leaf blowers on school district property at any time. Any violation issued under this Subsection I shall
            be issued to the property owner or the owner of the business undertaking the gas-powered leaf-
            blowing operations, at the discretion of the enforcement officer issuing the violation. [Added
            1-18-2022 by L.L. No. 2-202257]

            (1)    Properties in excess of 40,000 square feet in lot area shall be eligible to apply for a permit for
                   the operation of gas-powered leaf blowers, with reasonable and appropriate conditions and/or
                   limitations as determined by the Village Manager or his designee. The permit shall be valid for
                   a period no less than one week and no longer than three months, and the fee shall be established
                   by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees.

     J.     Playing, using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated any radio, phonograph, musical
            instrument, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the production or
            reproduction of sound which is cast upon the public streets or other public places for advertising,
            soliciting or sales purposes.

     K.     The use of any drum, bell, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting
            attention to any solicitation, performance, show or sale or display of merchandise by the creation of
            noise, except bells sounded by licensed mobile vendors, provided that the sound thereof is not audible
            more than 300 feet from said vehicle.

     L.     The making, continuing, causing or permitting to be made, verbally or mechanically, any
            unreasonable intrusive noise. [Added 12-4-1995 by L.L. No. 11-1995]


     57. Editor's Note: This local law also provided for the redesignation of former Subsections I through K as Subsections J through L,
         respectively.


     § 160-5                                                NOISE

     § 160-5. Methods of measurement.

     The measurement of any sound or noise shall be made with a sound-level meter using an A-scale decibel
     level. The measurement shall be conducted at or within ten (10) feet of the property line of the property on
     which such noise is generated.

     § 160-6. Penalties for offenses.

     Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in
     § 1-12 of Chapter 1, General Provisions. Each day that a violation shall continue shall constitute a separate
     offense.

     § 160-7. Exceptions.

     A.    Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the production of music in connection with any
           military or civic parade, funeral procession or religious service or the use of any bell, chimes or other
           instrument, apparatus or device by any church or synagogue, or school licensed or chartered by the
           State of New York, provided that such production or use does not occur between the hours of 10:00
           p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day.

     B.    Sounds created by any governmental agency or railroad agency by the use of public warning devices
           are exempted from the limitations of this chapter.

     C.    Sounds created by public utilities in carrying out the operations of their franchise are exempted from
           the limitations of this chapter.

     D.    Sounds connected with any organized sporting event of any public school conducted on public school
           property. For the purpose of this Subsection D, field days and sporting practices shall be deemed
           organized sporting events. [Amended 9-6-2016 by L.L. No. 4-2016]

     E.    Sounds connected with activities and equipment of the Croton-on-Hudson Department of Public
           Works are exempted from the limitations of this chapter.

     § 160-8. Effect of other provisions.

     The provisions of this chapter shall in no case remove or render less restrictive limitations on noise
     generated or other conditions imposed for specific properties by actions of the Croton-on-Hudson Planning
     Board or by the actions of the Croton-on-Hudson Zoning Board of Appeals or required under other
     applicable laws or regulations.

     § 160-9. Enforcement.

     The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department of the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson, Code Enforcement Officers of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or other officials designated by
     the Village Manager.

     § 160-10. When effective.

     This chapter shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.


                                                 CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                      § 167-3
