---
title: "Chapter 191: Sewers"
chapter: 191
name: "Sewers"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 0
---

ARTICLE I                              § 191-18.     Prohibited wastes.
                       Purpose; Definitions                       § 191-19.     Rejection or pretreatment of
                                                                                certain wastes.
     § 191-1.             Purpose.                                § 191-20.     Determination factors.
     § 191-2.             Definitions.                            § 191-21.     Pretreatment sampling
                                                                                facilities, inspections.
                        ARTICLE II                                § 191-22.     Restrictions on use of storm
                Construction and Maintenance                                    sewers.
                                                                  § 191-23.     Tests and manholes.
     § 191-3.             Supervision.                            § 191-24.     Industrial exceptions.
     § 191-4.             Permit required.                        § 191-25.     Discharge of effluents from
     § 191-5.             Application for permit.                               private systems prohibited.
     § 191-6.             Materials and work.
     § 191-7.             Tampering with sewers                                   ARTICLE V
                          prohibited.                                         Sanitary Sewer Rents
     § 191-8.             Regulations and restrictions.
     § 191-9.             Street openings.                        § 191-26.     Purpose.
     § 191-10.            Fees.                                   § 191-27.     Definitions.
                                                                  § 191-28.     Establishment of sanitary sewer
                          ARTICLE III                                           rents.
                     Use of Sewers Required                       § 191-29.     Determination of costs.
                                                                  § 191-30.     Calculation of rents.
     § 191-11.            Deposit of wastes restricted.           § 191-31.     Billing and payments.
     § 191-12.            Discharge to outlets and storm          § 191-32.     Late payments, penalties, liens
                          sewers restricted.                                    and collection.
     § 191-13.            Connections to sewers required.         § 191-33.     Collected sanitary sewer rents;
                                                                                sewer rent fund.
                         ARTICLE IV                               § 191-34.     Consistency with General
                  Discharges to Public Sewers                                   Municipal Law.
                                                                  § 191-35.     Severability.
     § 191-14.            Conformance with county
                          regulations.
                                                                                  ARTICLE VI
     § 191-15.            Only designated uses permitted.                          Penalties
     § 191-16.            Certain waters prohibited.
     § 191-17.            Use of storm sewers or natural          § 191-36.     Notice of violation.
                          outlets.                                § 191-37.     Penalties for offenses.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 2-7-1966.
     Amendments noted where applicable.]


                                                            SEWERS


                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Penalties for offenses — See Ch. 1, § 1-12.                  Streets and sidewalks — See Ch. 197.

     Assessments for sewer improvements — See Ch. 7.              Water supply protection — See Ch. 223.

     Plumbing — See Ch. 175.


                                                           ARTICLE I
                                                        Purpose; Definitions

     § 191-1. Purpose. [Amended 5-7-1990 by L.L. No. 2-1990]

     In order to assure the proper disposal of sewage and wastewaters and the proper operation and maintenance
     of the public sewers, sewage treatment plant and other sewage works within the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson, the following regulations are enacted by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, under the authority of
     the Village Law of the State of New York.

     § 191-2. Definitions.

     A.    Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of the terms used in these
           regulations shall be as follows:
           BOD ("denoting biochemical oxygen demand") — The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
           oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at twenty degrees
           centigrade, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l) by weight.
           CHLORINE DEMAND — The amount of chlorine which must be added to water or waste to produce
           a residual chlorine content of at least one-tenth mg/l after a minimum contact time of 10 minutes.
           GENERAL FOREMAN — The General Foreman of the Department of Public Works of the Village
           of Croton-on-Hudson or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
           NATURAL OUTLET — Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
           ground water.
           PERSON — Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or group.
           pH — The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
           SEWAGE — Wastewater or water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings, institutions
           and industrial establishments. "Sewage" shall be further classified as follows:

           (1)    DOMESTIC OR SANITARY SEWAGE — The solid and liquid wastes from toilet and lavatory
                  fixtures, kitchens, laundries, bathtubs, shower baths or equivalent plumbing fixtures as
                  discharged from dwellings and business and industrial buildings.

           (2)    INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE OR WASTES — Includes the liquid-carried wastes of any industrial
                  process as distinct from domestic or sanitary sewage. All substances carried in industrial wastes,
                  whether dissolved, in suspension or mechanically carried by liquid, shall be considered as
                  industrial wastes.

           (3)    STORMWATER — Includes the runoff or discharge of rain and melted snow or other water
                  from roofs, surfaces of public or private lands or elsewhere. "Stormwater" also shall include
                  subsoil drainage, as defined below.

           (4)    SUBSOIL DRAINAGE — Includes water from the soil percolating into subsoil drains and
                  through foundation walls, basement floors or underground pipes.

           (5)    COOLING WATER — Includes the wastewater from air-conditioning, industrial cooling,
                  condensing and hydraulically powered equipment or similar apparatus.

           (6)    GARBAGE — Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food and from


                  the handling, storage and sale of produce. "Properly shredded garbage" shall mean garbage
                  which has been shredded so that no garbage particles will be greater than one-half inch in any
                  dimension.
           SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT — Any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating
           sewage.
           SEWAGE WORKS — All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage or
           wastewater.
           SEWER or DRAIN — The pipe or conduit, together with manholes and other structures or equipment
           appurtenant thereto, provided to carry sewage waste liquids, stormwater or other waters. "Sewers"
           shall be further classified as follows:

           (1)    PUBLIC SEWER — A trunk, main or lateral sewer up to and including the Y-branch or tee
                  provided for connection thereto and to which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights
                  and which is controlled by public authority. The "public sewer" does not include the building or
                  house sewer or the building connection lateral after it is connected with a building sewer.

           (2)    SANITARY SEWER — A sewer which carries only sanitary sewage and to which stormwater,
                  subsoil drainage and cooling water are not intentionally admitted.

           (3)    COMBINED SEWER — A sewer receiving both stormwater and domestic sewage, including
                  acceptable discharge of industrial wastes, subsoil drainage and cooling water.

           (4)    STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN — A pipeline carrying stormwater, subsoil drainage,
                  acceptable cooling water or other reasonably clean waters, but excluding domestic and polluted
                  industrial waste.
           SLUG — Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in concentration of any given
           constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more
           than five times the average twenty-four-hour concentration or flow during normal operation.
           SUSPENDED SOLIDS — Solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in water,
           sewage or other liquids and which are removable by filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
           the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Waste of the American Public Health Association.
           VILLAGE — The Village of Croton-on-Hudson or the village's duly authorized representatives,
           including but not limited to the General Foreman, as defined herein.
           WATERCOURSE — A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
           intermittently.

     B.    As used herein, the word "shall" is mandatory; "may' is permissive.


                                                         ARTICLE II
                                                 Construction and Maintenance

     § 191-3. Supervision. [Amended 5-7-1990 by L.L. No. 2-1990]

     The construction, repair and maintenance of all sewers, drains, cesspools, sewer connections and
     appurtenances, public, private or municipal, are and, for all purposes herein specified, shall be under the
     supervision and control of the General Foreman or his duly authorized agents and employees.

     § 191-4. Permit required.

     Before commencing the repair, modification or construction of any connection with any public or
     municipal sewer, a permit therefor must be obtained from the General Foreman, which permit shall be
     upon the grounds at all times during the progress of the work above referred to and which permit must be
     shown to any official of said Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, on demand. Such permit shall state
     the place where such connection is to be laid, the points where any public street or highway is to be opened
     up and the size, manner and material of which said connection is to be constructed, altered or repaired. No
     connection shall be made, modified or repaired as aforesaid except in the manner stated in such permit.
     No opening shall be made in any public street or highway nor any work executed on or under the same by
     other than Village forces, unless specifically permitted and agreed to by the General Foreman.

     § 191-5. Application for permit.

     All applications for permits shall be made in writing in triplicate on blanks furnished by the village for such
     purpose, shall be signed by the owner or his authorized agent and shall state with sufficient exactness the
     sewer line to which connection is sought to be made, the point or place of connection, the material of which
     the connection is to be constructed and such other information as may be required. No private sewer lines
     or drains or connections in public streets or highways and no private lines serving more than one residence
     may be connected with any public or municipal sewers in said village without the express permission of
     the General Foreman, and then only upon such terms as shall appear adequate to him for the protection of
     said village and its inhabitants.

     § 191-6. Materials and work. [Amended 3-19-1984 by L.L. No. 2-1984]

     All work of installing sewer connections and all materials used must conform to the standard regulations
     and requirements of Article 9 of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code.67 Use of
     bituminized fiber sewer pipe in the sewer system is prohibited.

     § 191-7. Tampering with sewers prohibited.

     Entrance into manholes or opening the same for any purpose whatsoever, except by the persons duly
     authorized by the proper official of said village, is hereby prohibited. The unauthorized cutting, chipping,
     opening, moving or other tampering with any public or municipal sewer or the connection therewith of any
     drain, soil or other pipe without a permit, as set forth in § 191-4 above, is strictly prohibited.

     § 191-8. Regulations and restrictions.

     A.    No privy vault or cesspool shall hereafter be constructed in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
           Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the use of chemical toilets where a special

     67. Editor's Note: See Ch. 175, Plumbing.


            permit has been issued on a temporary basis by the Village Engineer.

     B.     Where septic tank systems are used, the plumbing and drainage of any buildings having connections
            with them will be governed by the rules and regulations of the Westchester County Board of Health.
            No building permit will be issued until the approval of this Board has been obtained.

     C.     As soon as it is possible to connect with a public sewer, the owner must have any cesspool, septic
            tank or privy vault emptied, cleaned and disinfected and filled with fresh earth and have a sewer
            connection made in the manner herewith prescribed.

     D.     Where there is a sewer in the street, every house and building must be separately and independently
            connected with it. When possible, such connection must be made directly in front of the house. When
            a number of dwellings are built in a continuous row, under one roof, not more than two of them will
            be allowed to one connection, except as hereinbefore prescribed in § 191-5.

     E.     Where there is no sewer in the street and it is necessary to construct a private sewer to connect with a
            sewer in an adjacent street or avenue, it must be laid outside the front property line and at least two
            feet therefrom and not through the yards or under the houses.

     F.     Any house drain or house sewer installed and covered without due notice to the General Foreman
            must be uncovered for inspection at his direction.

     G.     An iron running trap must be placed on the house drain near the wall of the house and on the sewer
            side of all connections. If placed outside the house or below the cellar floor, it must be made
            accessible by a manhole, with an iron or flagstone cover. When outside the house, it must never be
            less than two feet below the surface of the ground.

     § 191-9. Street openings.

     All street openings for the purpose of connecting with any sewer or for any other purpose herein specified
     shall be subject to any and all rules, regulations and laws of said Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
     and its proper boards and officials, relating to streets and highways.68

     § 191-10. Fees. [Amended 5-7-1990 by L.L. No. 2-1990]

     The Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall charge and receive fees for permits and other services under this
     chapter in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.69


     68. Editor's Note: See Ch. 197, Streets and Sidewalks, Art. I.
     69. Editor's Note: The current fee resolution is on file in the office of the Village Clerk.


                                                          ARTICLE III
                                                     Use of Sewers Required

     § 191-11. Deposit of wastes restricted.

     It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner
     upon public or private property within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or in any area under the
     jurisdiction of said village any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.

     § 191-12. Discharge to outlets and storm sewers restricted.

     It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or storm sewer within the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or
     other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
     provisions of this chapter.

     § 191-13. Connections to sewers required.

     The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or
     other purpose, situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there
     is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer, are hereby required,
     at their expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the
     proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 10 days after date of official
     notice to do so.


                                                         ARTICLE IV
                                                   Discharges to Public Sewers

     § 191-14. Conformance with county regulations. [Added 9-23-1980 by L.L. No. 7-1985]

     The Village of Croton-on-Hudson and all users of the village's sanitary sewer system shall be subject to all
     applicable rules and regulations contained in Chapter 824 of the Laws of Westchester County.

     § 191-15. Only designated uses permitted.

     No person shall discharge into any public sewer of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson any waste, substance
     or waters other than such kinds or types of waters or water-carried wastes for the conveyance of which the
     particular public sewer is intended, designed or provided.

     § 191-16. Certain waters prohibited.

     No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, drainage water,
     swimming pool drain water, cooling water, airconditioning and refrigerating wastewaters or unpolluted
     industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.

     § 191-17. Use of storm sewers or natural outlets.

     Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage or uncontaminated process water in excessive quantities shall
     be discharged to storm sewers or to a natural outlet. Such waters shall be discharged only after approval of
     any local, county or state regulatory agency having jurisdiction.

     § 191-18. Prohibited wastes.

     Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
     described waters or wastes to any public sewer:

     A.    Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150º F.

     B.    Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 mg/l by weight of fat, oil, wax or grease or
           containing other substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º F.
           and 150º F.

     C.    Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, alcohol, tar, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive liquid, solid,
           gas or vapor.

     D.    Any garbage except properly shredded garbage. The installation and operation of any garbage grinder
           equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
           Superintendent.

     E.    Any ashes, cinders, stones, sand, mud, straw, shavings or sawdust, metal, sticks, coarse rubbish, glass,
           rags, tar, feathers, plastics, waste rubber, animal guts or tissues, entrails, blood, hair, hides, wood,
           paunch manure or any other substance likely to damage, destroy or cause an obstruction to the flow
           in any sewer or which may interfere with the proper operation of the sewage works.

     F.    Any waters or wastes containing a toxic, poisonous or radioactive substance in sufficient quantity to
           injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or to constitute a hazard to humans, animals or
           marine life or create any hazard in the receiving waters. Radioactive wastes or materials may be


           discharged into a public sewer if Conditions I and II below are met and if either Condition III or IV is
           also met, provided that such discharges are in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.

           (1)    Condition I: Such wastes must be readily soluble or dispersible in water.

           (2)    Condition II: The gross quantity of all radioactive materials so discharged must not exceed one
                  curie per year.

           (3)    Condition III: The daily quantity of any radioactive material, if diluted by the average daily
                  volume of sewage discharged into the system from the installation, must not exceed the
                  maximum concentrations allowed by regulations of the United States Atomic Energy
                  Commission.

           (4)    Condition IV: Daily quantities of radioactive materials up to the maximum permitted by the
                  United States Atomic Energy Commission may be so discharged, provided that the total
                  monthly quantities, if diluted by the average monthly volume of sewage discharged from the
                  installation, do not exceed the concentrations permissible under Condition III above.

     G.    Any waters, sewage or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.5 or having any other
           corrosive or detrimental property capable of causing damage or hazard to the sewage works or
           personnel.

     H.    Any noxious, malodorous or taste-producing gas, vapor or substance, such as phenols, capable of
           creating a public or private nuisance or which may prove toxic to sewage treatment processes or
           which may exceed acceptable limits for discharge to receiving waters.

           (1)    Any waters containing strong acid iron-pickling wastes or concentrated plating solutions,
                  whether neutralized or not.

           (2)    Any water containing iron, copper, chromium, zinc and similar objectionable toxic substances.

     I.    Materials which exert or cause:

           (1)    Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime
                  slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride
                  and sodium sulfate).

           (2)    Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).

           (3)    Unusual BOD, suspended solids, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in such
                  quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.

           (4)    Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting slugs, as defined herein.

     J.    Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the
           sewage treatment processes employed or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the
           sewage treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
           over discharge to the receiving waters.

     § 191-19. Rejection or pretreatment of certain wastes.

     A.    If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which
           waters contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in § 191-18 and which may
           have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters or which


           otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the village may:

           (1)    Reject the wastes;

           (2)    Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sewers;

           (3)    Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or

           (4)    Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the wastes not covered by
                  existing taxes or sewer charges.

     B.    If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of
           the plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the village and of any or all
           state regulatory agencies having jurisdiction, and no construction of such facilities shall be
           commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.

     § 191-20. Determination factors.

     In determining whether any waste discharged or proposed to be discharged into any public sewer is to be
     excluded, consideration will be given to the quantity, time or times, rate and manner of discharge, dilution
     and character of the waste in question, the size of the sewer into which the waste is to be discharged, the
     probable quantity of sewage or other wastes likely in said sewer and other pertinent facts. Minute quantities
     of a waste which would be objectionable in larger quantity may be accepted if sufficiently diluted when
     and as discharged or if the quantity discharged is small as compared with the flow in the receiving sewer,
     but any permission to discharge minute quantities of an otherwise excluded waste shall be revocable at any
     time by the village.

     § 191-21. Pretreatment sampling facilities, inspections.

     A.    At all premises where wastes or substances specified to be excluded from public sewers by these
           regulations are present and likely to be discharged directly or indirectly into said sewers, suitable and
           sufficient piping layouts, oil, grease, sand, flammable waste traps or separators, screens, setting tanks,
           diluting devices, storage or regulating chambers, treatment, cooling or other equipment and devices
           shall be provided. These shall be maintained and properly operated by the owner of the premises or
           his agent at his expense to ensure that no waste or substance is discharged in violation of the
           requirements of these regulations.

     B.    On premises where wastes or substances specified to be excluded from public sewers are present, the
           village may require the owner to provide, operate and maintain, at his expense, a sampling well or
           wells, flow-measuring devices, manholes or other appurtenances, all readily accessible, on the
           building sewer or drain from said premises near the point where said sewer or drain connects to the
           public sewer. By means of said sampling well or wells, flow-measuring devices or other
           appurtenances, the village or any public officer having legal jurisdiction may secure samples of or
           examine the wastes being discharged into the public sewer for the purpose of determining compliance
           or noncompliance with the requirements of these regulations.

     C.    The village shall have the right to enter and inspect any part of the premises served by public sewers
           upon which there may be reason to believe that violations of the requirements of these regulations
           have occurred or are likely to occur for the purpose of ascertaining the facts as to such violation or
           suspected violation or of obtaining samples of wastes or of inspecting flow-measuring devices or
           treatment facilities provided to prevent prohibited discharges.


     § 191-22. Restrictions on use of storm sewers.

     No wastewaters or substances which are excluded from sanitary sewers shall be discharged into any storm
     sewer.

     § 191-23. Tests and manholes.

     All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made
     in this section shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
     Sewage. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered
     to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
     connected.

     § 191-24. Industrial exceptions.

     No statement contained on this section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or
     arrangement between the village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
     strength of character may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
     industrial concern.

     § 191-25. Discharge of effluents from private systems prohibited.

     No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any public sewer, either directly or indirectly,
     any overflow or effluent from a septic tank, cesspool, subsurface drainage trench, bed or filter or other
     receptacle storing organic waste.


                                                           ARTICLE V
                                                       Sanitary Sewer Rents
                                               [Added 11-7-2005 by L.L. No. 3-200570]

     § 191-26. Purpose.

     The purpose of this article is to establish a separate sanitary sewer rent fund and impose sanitary sewer
     rents in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in accordance with Article 14-F of the General Municipal Law,
     to ensure a proportional distribution of operation and maintenance costs, and to use the sewer rents as the
     principal source of revenue for the operation and maintenance of the sanitary sewer system.

     § 191-27. Definitions.

     As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     OWNER — The owner of the premises, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
     executor, trustee, lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of a building or premises.
     PREMISES — A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any building or structure.
     SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM — All sewer pipes and other appurtenances that are used or useful in
     whole or in part in connection with the collection, treatment, or disposal of sewage, industrial waste, and
     other wastes, that are owned, operated or maintained by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and that connect
     to the Ossining sanitary sewage treatment facility or are within the Ossining Sanitary Sewer District.
     VILLAGE — The Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.

     § 191-28. Establishment of sanitary sewer rents.

     The owner of all premises within the Croton portion of the Ossining Sanitary Sewer District or using the
     sanitary sewer system or any part thereof shall be required to pay sanitary sewer rents for the payment of
     the costs of operating, maintaining, repairing, and replacing the sanitary sewer system.

     § 191-29. Determination of costs.

     In April of each year, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall determine the total annual costs of operation
     and maintenance of the sanitary sewer system that are necessary to maintain the capacity and performance
     during the life of the sanitary sewer system for which such works were designed and constructed. The
     total annual costs of operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to, labor, repairs,
     replacement, equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary modifications, power, sampling, laboratory
     tests and a reasonable contingency fund. This determination of costs shall serve as the basis for the
     calculation of rents.

     § 191-30. Calculation of rents.

     A.     All sanitary sewer rents and penalties shall be established by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
            Croton-on-Hudson by resolution approved after a public hearing held on at least five days' notice.

     B.     For premises that use Village water and are within the Ossining Sanitary Sewer District or are using
            the sanitary sewer system, the sewer rent shall be calculated as a certain percentage of the Village


     70. Editor's Note: This local law provided that former Art. V, Penalties, be redesignated as Art. VI and that former §§ 191-26 and
         191-27 be renumbered as 191-36 and 191-37, respectively. This legislation also provided that it shall become effective 12-1-2005.


           water bill for those premises. The percentage to be applied shall be the percentage of the Village's
           total water bills for premises within the Croton portion of the Ossining Sanitary Sewer District that is
           equal to the annual costs of operation and maintenance of the sanitary sewer system.

     C.    For those premises that do not use Village water but are connected to or served by the sanitary sewer
           system, the sewer rent shall be a flat fee based upon the volume of water measured by meter at
           comparable premises or, if there are no comparable premises, upon such other equitable method as
           the Village deems appropriate.

     § 191-31. Billing and payments. [Amended 6-1-2020 by L.L. No. 7-2020]

     A.    Sanitary sewer rent charges may be obtained at the Village's administrative offices. The Village
           Treasurer may send bills via U.S. mail or email for sewer rents as an accommodation to the premises
           owner, but the failure to send any such statement via U.S. mail or email, or the failure of the addressee
           to receive the same, shall not in any manner affect the validity of the sewer rent charges or the interest
           imposed for late payment. If the premises owner does not receive a bill, it is his or her responsibility
           to contact the Village Treasurer to obtain one.

     B.    Sanitary sewer rent bills shall cover the same billing period as covered by the Village water bill.

     C.    All bills for sanitary sewer rents are due and payable to the Village-of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 191-32. Late payments, penalties, liens and collection. [Amended 12-7-2020 by L.L. No. 10-2020]

     A.    Penalties for nonpayment of sewer rent charges. The following penalties are prescribed for failure to
           pay sewer rent charges:

           (1)    No penalty shall be assessed if sewer rent charges are paid by the due date set forth on the bill.

           (2)    If the sewer rent charge is not paid by the due date set forth on the bill, a penalty of 5% of the
                  account due shall be assessed, and a further penalty of 1% shall be added for each succeeding
                  month or any portion of a month in which the sewer rents are not paid. The Village Treasurer
                  shall cause, on the next succeeding April 15, any unpaid sewer rents charges and penalties in
                  excess of 60 days to be added to the Village tax bills.

     B.    In accordance with General Municipal Law § 452, sanitary sewer rents shall constitute a lien upon
           the premises served by the sanitary sewer system. This lien shall have priority and be senior to every
           other lien with the exception of the lien of an existing tax, assessment, or other lawful charge imposed
           by the state or of a political subdivision or district thereof.

     C.    Delinquent accounts, including sanitary sewer rents and penalties, shall be collected in a manner
           provided for in General Municipal Law § 452, Subsection 4.

     § 191-33. Collected sanitary sewer rents; sewer rent fund.

     All revenues generated from sanitary sewer rents, including penalties, shall be kept in a separate bank
     account to be denominated as the "sewer rent fund." All such funds, together with the interest thereon, shall
     be used in accordance with General Municipal Law § 453.

     § 191-34. Consistency with General Municipal Law.

     This article shall be construed in a manner consistent with the provisions of Article 14-F of the General
     Municipal Law.


     § 191-35. Severability.

     If any provision of this article or its application to any person or circumstance is adjudged invalid by a
     court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not affect or impair the validity of the other provisions
     of this article or its application thereof to other persons and circumstances.


                                                            ARTICLE VI
                                                              Penalties

     § 191-36. Notice of violation.

     Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served by the Village of Croton-
     on-Hudson with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit
     for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
     permanently cease all violations.

     § 191-37. Penalties for offenses. [Amended 5-7-1990 by L.L. No. 2-1990]

     Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as provided in § 1-12 of Chapter
     1, General Provisions. Each day that any violation of these regulations continues and each day that any
     person continues to discharge prohibited wastes or substances into any public sewer shall be deemed to be
     a separate offense for the purpose of applying the penalty provided in this section.


     § 191-37                                               SEWERS


                                                 CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                           § 193-2
