---
title: "Chapter 157: Filming, Regulation Of"
chapter: 157
name: "Filming, Regulation Of"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 157-1.             Legislative intent.                     § 157-6.       Fees.
     § 157-2.             Filming permits and standards.          § 157-7.       Previous offenses.
     § 157-3.             Insurance required.                     § 157-8.       Penalties for offenses.
     § 157-4.             Requests for film productions           § 157-9.       Exclusions; television news.
                          in excess of five days.                 § 157-10.      When effective.
     § 157-5.             Use of village employees.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 4-17-1995 as
     L.L. No. 6-1995. Amendments noted where applicable.]


     § 157-1. Legislative intent.

     The village has experienced a significant increase in requests to film in the community. Because filming
     has the potential to disrupt orderly life in a small community, the public welfare and safety require that it
     be appropriately regulated and that applications for filming be handled in a consistent manner.

     § 157-2. Filming permits and standards.

     A.    No commercial, movie, television program, documentary or similar presentation, or any portion
           thereof, shall be filmed, videotaped, recorded or otherwise made on any private property or public
           property, including but not limited to streets, sidewalks, parks and buildings, in the Village of Croton-
           on-Hudson without first obtaining a permit. A permit shall be required for the running of cable, the
           placing or storing of equipment of any kind, the parking of vehicles used in connection with filming
           or any other film-related activity on any public or private property within the village or for any other
           use of such property for the purpose of filming.

     B.    Application for a permit shall be submitted to the Village Manager on an application form to be
           provided by the Village Manager.
     C.    Permit applications must be submitted at least three days prior to the date the filming is to take place
           for a one-day shoot and five days for any shoots of more than one day.

     D.    Time restrictions.

           (1)    No applicant shall allow any filming to be conducted prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.

           (2)    No applicant shall allow equipment used in connection with such filming, including but not
                  limited to lights, generators and related equipment, to be set up or operated at the location
                  described in the permit application prior to 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. If any such equipment
                  used in connection with filming is to be dismantled, taken down or removed after the day's
                  shooting, then filming must cease sufficiently in advance of 10:00 p.m. so that all such activities
                  end no later than 10:00 p.m.

     E.    The Village Manager shall have the authority to approve or disapprove an application for a permit


     § 157-2                                      FILMING, REGULATION OF                                   § 157-8

           and to establish such conditions for filming as deemed necessary to protect the health, safety and
           welfare of the residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson. The Village Manager may also extend
           the hours of filming on either public or private property if the filming is to be in an isolated location
           or, in his judgment, such extension is consonant with the public health, welfare and safety, subject to
           any conditions he deems necessary and appropriate.

     § 157-3. Insurance required.

     A certificate of insurance must be submitted with the application for any filming permit involving the
     use of public property for the purpose of making films, naming the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as an
     additional insured, in the following amounts:

     A.    Property damage: $1,000,000 per individual; $1,000,000 per occurrence.

     B.    Personal injury: $1,000,000 per individual; $1,000,000 per occurrence.

     § 157-4. Requests for film productions in excess of five days.

     Application for a permit for a film production, including any preparatory running of cable, placement or
     storing of equipment or other activity related to the filming process that will exceed five days, must be
     submitted to the Village Manager at least 14 days prior to the date filming will take place. The request will
     thereafter be submitted to the Board of Trustees for approval, approval with conditions or disapproval.

     § 157-5. Use of village employees.

     A.    Applicants shall be responsible for all costs associated with the use of village employees during the
           filming process. Payment of the estimated costs, as determined by the Village Manager, shall be made
           in advance of the filming and shall be a condition of the permit. Any adjustment upward or
           downward, based on the actual costs incurred by the village, shall be made after the filming is
           completed.

     B.    The decision whether to use village employees shall be the responsibility of the Village Manager for
           filming of five days or fewer and shall be the responsibility of the Board of Trustees for filming that
           will exceed five days.

     § 157-6. Fees.

     A.    Fees shall be adopted by resolution of the Board of Trustees for:

           (1)    Filming by or for a nonprofit organization or the filming of a documentary, for each day, on
                  either private or public property.

           (2)    Filming by a production company for a commercial or for a profit-making entity, for each day,
                  on either private or public property.

     § 157-7. Previous offenses.

     No applicant who has been previously convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be granted a permit
     hereunder for a period of 18 months from the date of such conviction.


     § 157-8                                     CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     § 157-8. Penalties for offenses.

     Any person or entity who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
     conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of $500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 days, or
     both such fine and imprisonment. Each violation of any provision of this chapter shall be separate and
     distinct offense; and in case of continuing violation, every day's continuance thereof shall be deemed to be
     a separate and distinct offense.

     § 157-9. Exclusions; television news.

     This chapter shall not apply to the filming by a television news crew of an event occurring
     contemporaneously within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 157-10. When effective.

     This chapter shall become effective immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.


                                               MASKS AND FACE COVERINGS                                  § 158-1
