---
title: "Chapter 208: Trees"
chapter: 208
name: "Trees"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 0
---

ARTICLE I                                                              ARTICLE II
                              Street Trees                                                         Tree Preservation

     § 208-1.               Purpose.                                         § 208-14.              Purpose.
     § 208-1.1.             Definitions.                                     § 208-15.              Definitions.
     § 208-2.               Designation of official                          § 208-16.              Tree removal permit required;
                            custodian; duties.                                                      approving authority.
     § 208-3.               Duties and responsibilities of                   § 208-17.              Permit application.
                            Department.                                      § 208-18.              Conditions for granting permit.
     § 208-4.               Spacing of trees planted.                        § 208-19.              Bond.
     § 208-5.               Distance from curbs and                          § 208-20.              Permit fee.
                            sidewalks.                                       § 208-21.              Inspection; indemnification.
     § 208-6.               Distance from street corners                     § 208-22.              Term.
                            and hydrants.
                                                                             § 208-23.              Action upon completion of
     § 208-7.               Distance from utilities.                                                work.
     § 208-8.               Rights of Village.                               § 208-24.              Suspension or revocation of
     § 208-9.               Pruning of trees prohibited.                                            permit.
     § 208-10.              Responsibilities of property
                            owners.                                                             ARTICLE III
     § 208-11.              Removal of stumps.                                   Penalties; Appeals; Dead or Diseased Trees
     § 208-12.              Removal of healthy trees
                            prohibited.                                      § 208-25.              Penalties for offenses.
     § 208-13.              Consent required for                             § 208-26.              Appeals.
                            deviations.                                      § 208-27.              Removal of dead or diseased
                                                                                                    trees; dangerous trees or tree
                                                                                                    limbs.
                                                                             § 208-28.              Severability.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 3-20-2006 by
     L.L. No. 6-2006.90 Amendments noted where applicable.]


     90. Editor's Note: This local law also repealed former Ch. 208, Trees, which consisted of the following articles: Art. I, Street Trees,
         adopted 7-23-1984 by L.L. No. 4-1984; Art. II, Tree Preservation, adopted 9-21-1987 by L.L. No. 5-1987, as amended.


                                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE


                                                              GENERAL REFERENCES

     Building construction — See Ch. 86.                                Professional fees — See Ch. 178.

     Environmental compliance — See Ch. 115.                            Steep slopes — See Ch. 195.

     Environmental review — See Ch. 116.                                Waterfront revitalization — See Ch. 225.

     Excavation, filling and topsoil removal — See Ch. 120.             Wetlands and watercourses — See Ch. 227.

     Flood damage prevention — See Ch. 129.                             Zoning — See Ch. 230.


                                                            ARTICLE I
                                                            Street Trees

     § 208-1. Purpose.

     The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has a vital interest in the planting and preservation of trees within its
     borders. The preservation of trees as defined herein within the Village is necessary to protect the health,
     safety and general welfare of the Village because trees provide shade, impede soil erosion, aid water
     absorption and retention, inhibit excess runoff and flooding, enhance air quality, offer a natural barrier to
     noise, provide a natural habitat for wildlife, provide screening, enhance property values and add to the
     aesthetic quality of the community.

     § 208-1.1. Definitions.

     As used in this article, the following term shall have the meaning indicated:
     STREET TREES — Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land lying between property
     lines on either side of all streets, avenues and rights-of-way within the Village.

     § 208-2. Designation of official custodian; duties.

     The Superintendent of the Department of Public Works, hereinafter also referred to as the "Department,"
     shall serve as the official custodian of all street trees and develop, in consultation with the Conservation
     Advisory Council, an annual street tree program.

     § 208-3. Duties and responsibilities of Department.

     The duties and responsibilities of the Department shall be to:

     A.    Study the problems and determine the needs of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in connection with
           its street tree program.

     B.    In consultation with the Conservation Advisory Council, determine the type and kind of trees to be
           planted upon Village streets or parts of Village streets or as designated.

     C.    Work in conjunction with the Conservation Advisory Council in the dissemination of news and
           information regarding selection, planting and maintenance of trees within Village limits.

     § 208-4. Spacing of trees planted.

     The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the following size classes, and the preferred
     distances between trees are: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in
     special plantings designed or approved by the Department in consultation with the Conservation Advisory
     Council. Small trees are defined as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than 13 feet but less than
     26 feet; medium trees are defined as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than 26 feet but less than
     52 feet; and large trees are defined as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than 52 feet.

     § 208-5. Distance from curbs and sidewalks.

     The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the
     species size, with final determination made by the Department.


     § 208-6. Distance from street corners and hydrants.

     No street tree shall generally be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the point
     of the nearest intersection curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer than 10 feet to any fire
     hydrant.

     § 208-7. Distance from utilities.

     No street trees may be planted over or within three lateral feet (small or medium) or five lateral feet (large)
     of any underground waterline, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.

     § 208-8. Rights of Village.

     A.    The Village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove street trees within the lines of
           all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, sidewalks and public grounds, as may be necessary to
           ensure public safety or convenience or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
           grounds. The Department may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof which
           is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason by its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
           gas lines, waterlines or other public improvements or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
           other pest.

     B.    This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent property owners, provided that
           departmental review has been made and approval granted.

     § 208-9. Pruning of trees prohibited.

     It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or Village department to prune any street tree or other trees on
     public property without written approval from the Department. "Pruning" is defined as the severe cutting
     back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter to such a degree as to remove the normal canopy
     and/or disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storm or other causes or certain trees under utility
     wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this article
     at the determination of the Department.

     § 208-10. Responsibilities of property owners.
     Every owner of any tree or shrub on private property overhanging any right-of-way within the Village shall
     prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the
     view of any street intersection or any traffic control device and so that there shall be a clear space of eight
     feet above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
     trees or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The Department
     shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread
     of light along the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign
     or interferes with visibility at an intersection.

     § 208-11. Removal of stumps.

     All stumps of street trees shall be removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump
     shall not project above the surface of the ground.


     § 208-12. Removal of healthy trees prohibited.

     In order to protect the Village's investment in time and resources in the street tree program, it shall
     be unlawful to remove or cause the destruction of any healthy street tree without prior approval of the
     Department.

     § 208-13. Consent required for deviations.

     Any deviation from this article shall be unlawful without the express written consent of the Superintendent
     of the Department.


                                                              ARTICLE II
                                                            Tree Preservation

     § 208-14. Purpose.

     A.    The Board of Trustees finds that it has been established that trees stabilize the soil and control water
           pollution by preventing soil erosion and flooding, reduce air pollution, provide oxygen, yield
           advantageous microclimatic effects, temper noise and, further, that unusual, large and old trees have
           unique aesthetic and historic values. Indiscriminate removal of trees causes deprivation of these
           benefits and disrupts the Village's ecological systems. It is, therefore, the purpose of this article to
           prevent the indiscriminate or unnecessary destruction of trees within the Village of Croton-on-
           Hudson.

     B.    The Village, furthermore, takes note of the findings of the New York State Environmental Quality
           Review Act,91 among them being the obligation of the Village to serve as a steward of air, water, land
           and living resources and the obligation to protect the environment for the use of this and further
           generations. It is the intent of the Village to recognize these responsibilities in part by providing these
           procedures as well as to preserve the health and welfare and rural character of the community which
           is reflected in the woodlands of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 208-15. Definitions.

     As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     APPLICANT — Any individual or individuals, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
     organization or other legal entity of any kind, including a municipal corporation, governmental agency or
     subdivision thereof, filing an application pursuant to this chapter.
     APPROVING AUTHORITY — The Village Engineer or his or her designee or the Planning Board as
     applicable, as specified in § 208-16C hereof.[Amended 12-20-2021 by L.L. No. 13-2021]
     CLEAR CUTTING — The cutting of more than 10 trees with a DBH of four inches or greater on a lot,
     within any twelve-month period.
     DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH) — The diameter of a tree measured at a point 4 1/2 feet above
     the ground, or at the highest measurable point of the remaining stump if less than 4 1/2 feet, on the uphill
     side of the tree.
     LANDMARK TREES — A tree as defined on a list of trees which may be promulgated and established by
     the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which list is on file in the office of the Village
     Manager.
     LOT — Any parcel of land, not necessarily coincident with a lot or lots shown on a map of record, which
     is occupied or which is to be occupied by a building and its accessory buildings, if any, or by a group of
     buildings having any land in common and the buildings accessory thereto, if any, together with the required
     open spaces appurtenant to such building or group of buildings.
     REGULATED BUFFER ZONE — Any area of vegetative screening as established by an approved site
     plan, minor site plan, special permit or subdivision plat, or any area of a residentially zoned property
     as measured from each perimeter property line of the property towards the interior of such property as
     follows:


     91. Editor's Note: See Art. 8 of the Environmental Conservation Law.


                                                                          Width of Regulated Buffer Zone
             Zoning District                                                          (feet)
             RA-40                                                                         15
             RA-25                                                                         10
             RA-9                                                                           5
             RA-5                                                                           3
             RB (One-Family Residence)                                                      3
             RB (Two-Family Residence)                                                      5
             RC (One-Family Residence)                                                      5
             RC (Multiple Residence)                                                       12

     TREE — A living woody plant with an erect perennial trunk which is four inches or more in DBH.

     § 208-16. Tree removal permit required; approving authority.

     A.    General regulations. A tree removal permit will be required before removing:

           (1)    Any tree eight inches or more in DBH on any parcel of land capable of being subdivided under
                  the zoning provisions applicable to the district in which the parcel is situated or on any parcel of
                  land without a residential structure or on any property which would require site plan approval
                  to be developed.

           (2)    Any tree four inches or more in DBH growing on slopes of over 20%.

           (3)    Any threatened or endangered species of tree, regardless of size, as defined by the New York
                  State Department of Environmental Conservation.

           (4)    Landmark trees as herein defined, regardless of size.

           (5)    Any tree four inches or more in DBH, the trunk of which is wholly or partially located in a
                  regulated buffer zone as herein defined.

           (6)    More than 10 trees with a DBH of four inches or greater on a lot, within any twelve-month
                  period.

     B.    Exceptions.

           (1)    No tree removal permit shall be required for work to be done by or on behalf of the Village of
                  Croton-on-Hudson.

           (2)    Trees may be removed by the appropriate agency or authority as may be necessary to maintain
                  Village, county, state or utility right-of-way, as a control measure to fight forest or other fires or
                  under such other actual or ongoing emergency condition when such tree removal is essential for
                  the protection and preservation of life or property.

     C.    Approving authority. The approving authority for all applications shall be the Village Engineer or his
           or her designee, except that the Planning Board, as applicable, shall be the approving authority for
           any application that is also the subject of a pending site plan, minor site plan, subdivision approval,
           wetlands permit, or steep slopes permit in accordance with the requirements of the Code of the
           Village of Croton-on-Hudson. Except as otherwise required in connection with the review of


           subdivision and site plan applications and steep slope applications by the Planning Board, the
           application for a tree removal permit shall not be subject to a public hearing, and notification of
           adjoining or other property owners is not required. [Amended 12-20-2021 by L.L. No. 13-2021]

     D.    Standards for the granting of permits. A tree removal permit shall normally be issued if any of the
           following conditions are met:

           (1)    The location of the tree(s) clearly endangers the health, safety, welfare or property of the general
                  public, the property owner or an adjoining property owner.

           (2)    The location of the designated tree(s) prevents compliance with state, county or local standards
                  for sight lines, driveways or intersections.

           (3)    The location of the tree(s) prevents the property owner from undertaking otherwise approved
                  construction or alteration because the location of the designated tree(s) substantially interferes
                  with a permitted use of the property and the construction or alteration cannot be reasonably
                  modified to accommodate the designated tree(s); written explanation may be required
                  describing how the designated tree(s) interferes with construction or alteration and why the
                  construction or alteration cannot be modified reasonably to accommodate the designated tree(s).

           (4)    The designated tree(s), due to death, disease, blight, infestation, storm damage, accident or other
                  condition, causes undue hardship for the property owner to maintain.

           (5)    The tree is dead, or so substantially diseased that it constitutes a danger to persons, property or
                  other trees.

           (6)    The removal of the tree is not inconsistent with good silvicultural, horticultural or vegetation
                  management and will not have an adverse visual or ecological impact.

     E.    Planning Board action which is deemed approval of tree removal. Where tree removal is proposed in
           connection with any site plan, minor site plan, subdivision plat, wetlands permit or steep slope permit
           application submitted or to be submitted to the Planning Board, as applicable, trees shall be removed
           from the affected property only in conjunction with an approved final subdivision plat, final site plan,
           minor site plan, wetlands or steep slope permit application. A tree removal permit is not required in
           these cases. [Amended 12-20-2021 by L.L. No. 13-2021]

     § 208-17. Permit application.

     A.    Any person proposing to conduct or cause to be conducted a regulated activity specified in § 208-16
           hereof shall file an application for a permit with the approving authority as hereinafter provided. Such
           application shall include the following information:

           (1)    The name and address of the applicant.

           (2)    The address and Village Tax Map designation of the property on which the tree(s) is/are located.

           (3)    The total land area involved in cutting operations.

           (4)    The number and size in DBH of trees to be removed.

           (5)    The purpose of the tree removal.

           (6)    A survey of that section to be disturbed, showing location of any regulated buffer zone as herein
                  defined as well as all trees, indicating those trees to be removed and those trees to be preserved,


                  their species and their diameter. In the case of site plans, including minor site plans, and
                  subdivision plats, the tree survey shall be submitted to the Planning Board or Village Board as
                  applicable as a part of the site plan, subdivision plat, wetlands or steep slopes applications. Trees
                  shall have numbering and tagging. The numbering and tagging shall be both in the field as well
                  as illustrated on the plan.

           (7)    Methods of removal.

           (8)    A stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) consistent with the requirements of Chapter
                  196, Article I, Stormwater Management and Erosion and Sediment Control, shall be required
                  for any tree removal permit that qualifies as or authorizes a land development activity as defined
                  in Chapter 196, Article I. The SWPPP shall meet the performance and design criteria and
                  standards in Chapter 196, Article I. The approved tree removal permit shall be consistent with
                  the provisions of Chapter 196, Article I. [Added 7-16-2007 by L.L. No. 3-2007]

     B.    Where no subdivision, site plan, minor site plan, wetlands permit or steep slope permit application is
           involved, the survey requirement may be eliminated, and a plan drawn to scale showing the property
           lines and tree locations with the tree diameters noted by the applicant may be substituted for
           Subsection A(6) above.

     C.    In cases where the Planning Board has received or will receive a site plan, minor site plan, or
           subdivision application involving the disturbance of 100 or more acres and where an acceptable
           erosion and sedimentation control plan has been or will be prepared for such project and where an
           environmental impact statement has been or will be prepared for such project, a sampling technique
           may be used to estimate the number, species and diameter of trees on the site and the number of trees
           proposed to be removed. The specifics of the sampling technique shall be subject to the approval of
           the Planning Board. Notwithstanding the above, all trees 22 inches in diameter at breast height and
           greater in any areas proposed to be disturbed shall be individually identified and marked in
           accordance with §§ 208-17A and 208-18C, respectively, of this article.

     § 208-18. Conditions for granting permit.

     The approving authority may, as a condition of granting a permit:

     A.    Require the reasonable relocation of proposed foundation walls, driveways, grading, surface and
           subsurface improvements or drainage systems to preserve specific trees.

     B.    Regulate the days and hours of operations.

     C.    Require that each tree to be cut or removed be marked at one point low enough on the trunk to be
           visible after removal of the tree so as to permit subsequent inspection. Notwithstanding the above,
           where the use of a sampling technique has been approved, trees less than 22 inches in diameter at
           breast height need not be marked.

     D.    Require such safeguards as appropriate to minimize the environmental impact of such removal
           operations.

     E.    Require additional information, if the tree removal involves clear cutting, including but not limited
           to:

           (1)    Complete plans for the restoration of the site after tree removal, which shall be certified by a
                  recognized tree expert, drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, and including
                  the following:


                  (a)    Description of the proposed vegetative cover of the tree removal area, including dominant
                         species before and after the tree removal.

                  (b)    The location of the tree removal in relation to property lines, roads, buildings and wetlands
                         within 100 feet thereof.

           (2)    Additional information as needed or deemed necessary by the approval authority to evaluate the
                  proposed tree removal in terms of the goals and standards of this chapter.

     F.    Require that the tree trunk, limbs, stump and any roots remaining above grade be removed to
           approximately two feet or less.

     G.    Require that the disturbed area be backfilled, replanted and/or reseeded.

     H.    Require that in the case of a tree destroyed or removed illegally, another tree or trees of comparable
           size, species and/or value be replanted at the expense of the property owner, for each tree removed.

     I.    Require the planting of a replacement tree or trees.

     J.    Impose such additional conditions as the approving authority deems necessary to ensure compliance
           with the policies and provisions of this chapter.

     § 208-19. Bond.

     A.    Before issuing a tree removal permit, the approving authority may require the applicant to file with
           the Village a suitable bond or other security, payable to the Village, in an amount fixed by the
           approving authority and in a form approved by said approving authority and conditioned upon the
           faithful performance of the requirements of this article, the observance of all municipal laws and
           compliance with conditions imposed in connection with the granting of the permit, to indemnify the
           Village for completing the work in accordance with this article.

     B.    Any bond or other security filed in accordance with the foregoing shall not be released until the
           Village Engineer has determined that, in all respects, the work proposed under the approval has been
           satisfactorily completed in full compliance with all provisions of this article. Failure to timely
           complete the work in accordance with the terms and conditions of an approved plan and/or permit
           and to obtain a certificate of completion as provided in § 208-23 may result in the forfeiture of the
           bond or other security and the Village shall be entitled to the full amount of said bond or other security
           for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this article.

     § 208-20. Permit fee.

     A tree removal permit application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by resolution of the
     Board of Trustees.

     § 208-21. Inspection; indemnification.

     Any site for which an application for a tree removal permit has been submitted shall be subject to
     inspection by the approving authority or its designated representatives upon notice to the property owner
     and applicant at any reasonable time, including weekends and holidays. The applicant, by making
     application for such permit, shall be deemed to have given its consent to such inspection. The applicant
     shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any damage or injury that may be caused by or
     arise out of any entry onto the subject property in connection with the processing of the application, during
     construction or performance of the work or within one year after the completion of the work.


     § 208-22. Term.

     No permit shall be valid for more than one year after approval of an application by the approving authority
     unless otherwise specified by the approving authority. All permits shall expire upon completion of the
     work specified therein. The validity of any work duly completed pursuant to an existing permit shall not
     be affected by the expiration date. Permits may be renewed by the approving authority upon application
     submitted at least 20 days before the expiration of the permit. Standards for issuance of renewals shall be
     the same for the issuance of permits.

     § 208-23. Action upon completion of work.

     A.    Within 30 days after completion of all tree removals authorized under a permit issued in accordance
           with this chapter, the applicant shall notify the Village Engineer of such completion.

     B.    Within 30 days of such notification of completion of work, the Village Engineer shall inspect or cause
           to be inspected the tree removal site for compliance with all conditions of the permit.

           (1)    When all tree removal(s) authorized under a permit is deemed to be completed in an acceptable
                  fashion, the approving authority shall issue a certificate of completion, which shall be
                  accompanied by cancellation or return of any bond collected for such permit.

           (2)    When tree removals authorized under permit are deemed not acceptable, the approving authority
                  shall so notify the applicant. The notification of noncompliance shall include a list of all
                  conditions in violation of the terms of the permit and shall specify a time limit for the correction
                  of all items so listed.

     § 208-24. Suspension or revocation of permit.

     A.    The approving authority after notice to the permit holder and an opportunity to be heard may revoke
           or suspend a tree removal permit if it finds that the applicant has not complied with any or all of the
           terms of such permit, has exceeded the authority granted in the permit or has failed to undertake the
           project in the manner set forth in the approved application. [Amended 7-21-2008 by L.L. No.
           2-2008]

     B.    Issuance of a stop-work order by the Village Engineer shall be as provided in § 86-14 of the Village
           Code. A stop-work order may be appealed by filing a written notice of appeal with the Planning Board
           not later than 30 days after service of the stop-work order upon the applicant. A hearing shall be
           scheduled by the Planning Board within 20 days of receipt of request for a hearing. After the close of
           the hearing, the Planning Board may confirm, modify or cancel the stop-work order.

     C.    The approving authority shall set forth in writing its findings and reasons for revoking or suspending
           a permit pursuant to this section and keep a copy in the permit application file.


                                                       ARTICLE III
                                         Penalties; Appeals; Dead or Diseased Trees

     § 208-25. Penalties for offenses.

     A.    Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity who or which undertakes any regulated activity without
           a tree removal permit required by this chapter or who violates any condition attached to a tree removal
           permit, or who otherwise violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense
           punishable by a fine of not more than $250. Each tree removed without a tree removal permit required
           by this chapter or in violation of any condition attached to a tree removal permit or otherwise in
           violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense. For a second and each subsequent
           violation within a one-year period, the violator shall be guilty of an offense punishable by a fine of
           not more than $1,000 or a term of imprisonment of not more than 15 days, or both. Notwithstanding
           the foregoing, a violation of § 208-16A(6) shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $5,000 or a
           term of imprisonment of not more than 15 days, or both. Each violation of the provisions of this
           chapter shall be a separate and distinct offense, and, in the case of a continuing offense, each day's
           continuance thereof shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition, the court may order
           or direct a violator to replace any or all trees removed illegally, with a size and type selected by the
           Superintendent of the Department. The court shall specify a reasonable time for the completion of
           such restoration, which shall be effected under the supervision of the Village Engineer.

     B.    In addition to the criminal penalties provided in § 208-25A any person, firm, corporation, or other
           entity who or which undertakes any regulated activity without a tree removal permit required by this
           chapter, or who violates any condition attached to a tree removal permit, or who otherwise violates
           any provision of this chapter shall also be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $3,000 for each such
           violation. Each consecutive day of the violation shall be considered a separate offense. Before
           assessment of the civil penalty, the alleged violator shall be afforded a hearing or opportunity to be
           heard before the Planning Board upon due notice and with right to specification of the charges and
           representation by counsel. Such civil penalty may be recovered in an action brought by the Village in
           any court of competent jurisdiction. Such civil penalty may be released or compromised by the
           Village and any action commenced to recover the same may be settled and discontinued by the
           Village.

     C.    The Planning Board also shall have the power, following a hearing, to direct a violator to cease
           violation of this chapter and, under the Board's supervision, to replace illegally removed trees and to
           restore satisfactorily the affected land to its condition prior to the violation, insofar as that is possible,
           within a reasonable time. Exercising of this power may be with or without the imposition of a fine or
           civil penalty under Subsections A and B hereof.

     D.    Any civil penalty or order issued by the Planning Board shall be reviewable pursuant to Article 78 of
           the Civil Practice Law and Rules.

     E.    The Village also shall have the right to seek equitable relief to restrain any violation or threatened
           violation of any provision of this chapter and to compel the replacement of any or all trees removed
           illegally and the restoration of the land affected to its condition prior to the violation of the provisions
           of this chapter.

     F.    The Village shall not issue a building permit, temporary certificate of occupancy or certificate of
           occupancy for any property for which a violation of this chapter has been served, or for which an
           administrative or judicial proceeding has been commenced under this section, until said violation or
           proceeding is dismissed or resolved to the satisfaction of the approving authority or court, as is


           appropriate.

     G.    The Village Engineer and Code Enforcement Officer(s) are hereby authorized to issue appearance
           tickets for violation of this chapter.

     § 208-26. Appeals.

     A.    A determination by the Planning Board to grant or deny a tree removal permit may be reviewed by
           the applicant or any other aggrieved person by the commencement of an action pursuant to the
           provisions of Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules.

     B.    In the case of an application decided by the Village Engineer or the Village Engineer's designee, the
           applicant or any other party aggrieved by such determination may seek review by appealing to the
           Planning Board, in which case the Planning Board shall become the approving authority for such
           application. Such review shall be requested not later than 20 days after the filing of the subject
           decision by the approving authority.

     § 208-27. Removal of dead or diseased trees; dangerous trees or tree limbs. [Amended 11-19-2018
     by L.L. No. 10-2018]

     A.    The Department shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private
           property within the Village when such trees constitute a hazard to life and property or harbor insects
           or diseases which constitute a potential threat to other trees within the Village. The Department shall
           notify, in writing, the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners, at their own
           expense, within 30 days after the date of service of notice.

     B.    The Department shall have the right to cause the removal of any trees or tree limbs on private property
           within the Village that it has determined are dangerous because they are likely to constitute an
           imminent hazard to life and/or property. The Department shall notify, in writing, the owners of such
           trees or limbs. Removal shall be done by said owners, at their own expense, within three days after
           the date of service of notice.

     C.    In the event of an owner's failure to comply with Subsection A or B hereunder, the Department shall
           have the authority to remove such tree(s) or limb(s), as the case may be, and charge the cost of
           removal to the owner. If the charge is not paid within 30 days from the date of the bill, the Village
           Manager shall cause, on the next succeeding April 15, any said unpaid removal charges to be added
           to the Village tax bills. Said charges shall constitute a lien on the real property so affected.

     § 208-28. Severability.

     If any provision of this chapter shall be held for any reason to be invalid, such determination shall not
     invalidate any other provision hereof.


     § 208-28                                    CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE


                                                    VEHICLES, ABANDONED                                          § 212-4
