---
title: "Chapter 212: Vehicles, Abandoned"
chapter: 212
name: "Vehicles, Abandoned"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 212-1.               Purpose.                              § 212-5.              Notice to remove; failure to
     § 212-2.               Definitions.                                                comply.
     § 212-3.               Storage or deposit prohibited.        § 212-6.              Exceptions.
     § 212-4.               Penalties for offenses.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 6-20-1966 by
     L.L. No. 2-1966. Section 212-4 amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch.1, General Provisions,
     Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Penalties for offenses — See Ch. 1, § 1-12.                  Vehicles and traffic — See Ch. 215.

     Garbage and littering — See Ch. 135.                         Zoning — See Ch. 230.

     Property maintenance — See Ch. 179.


     § 212-1. Purpose.

     It is hereby declared and found that abandoned, junked, discarded and dismantled or currently unlicensed
     motor vehicles in and upon real property within the village affects the public interest and constitute a
     nuisance in that health, fire and safety hazards are created, and such vehicles are subject to supervision and
     control for the purpose of safeguarding the public health, safety and general welfare of the people of the
     Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 212-2. Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     JUNKED VEHICLE — Any motor vehicle which is without a currently valid license plate or plates and is
     in either a rusted, wrecked, discarded, dismantled, partly dismantled, inoperative or abandoned condition.
     MOTOR VEHICLE — Includes any device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
     transported or drawn upon a public highway, propelled by any power other than muscular power, including
     motorcycles, motorbikes and boat or house trailers.

     § 212-3. Storage or deposit prohibited.

     It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as owner, lessee, occupant or otherwise, to
     store or deposit or cause or permit to be stored or deposited an abandoned, junked, discarded, dismantled
     or partly dismantled or currently unlicensed motor vehicle, as hereinbefore defined, in and upon any real
     property within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.


     § 212-4                                        CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     § 212-4. Penalties for offenses.92

     Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as provided in § 1-12 of
     Chapter 1, General Provisions.

     § 212-5. Notice to remove; failure to comply.

     A.     In addition thereto, if the provisions of § 212-3 are not complied with, the Village Engineer shall
            serve or cause to be served a written notice upon the owner, lessee or occupant of any premises to
            comply with the provisions of this chapter. If the owner of such lot or land is absent from the village
            or is a nonresident of the village, the Village Engineer shall mail or cause to be mailed such written
            notice to such owner, addressed to the last known address as the same may appear upon the last
            village assessment roll.

     B.     If the person upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions
            of the notice within 10 days after service or mailing of notice as aforesaid, the Department of Public
            Works of the village or a duly designated private contractor shall cause the abandoned, junked,
            discarded, dismantled, partially dismantled or currently unlicensed motor vehicle or vehicles to be
            moved and destroyed and such nuisance to be suppressed, and the total cost thereof, plus 10% of said
            total, shall be certified to the Clerk of the village and shall be assessed upon the premises on which
            the abandoned, junked, discarded, dismantled, partially dismantled or currently unlicensed motor
            vehicle is found and shall constitute a lien and charge on the lots or parcel of land on which it is levied
            until paid or otherwise satisfied or discharged and shall be collected in the manner provided by law
            for the collection of delinquent taxes.

     § 212-6. Exceptions.

     A.     This chapter shall not apply to any properties occupied and used for the repair, reconditioning and
            remodeling of vehicles in conformance with Chapter 230, Zoning, except that any motor vehicle on
            any such property for a period of 30 days may, in the absence of evidence to the contrary satisfactory
            to the Village Engineer, be deemed an abandoned, junked, discarded, dismantled, partially dismantled
            or currently unlicensed motor vehicle and subject to all provisions of this chapter.

     B.     Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the parking of not more than one currently
            unlicensed motor vehicle upon premises occupied by the owner of such vehicle, provided that such
            vehicle is not in a rusted, wrecked, discarded, dismantled, partly dismantled, or abandoned condition.
            [Amended 12-2-1985 by L.L. No. 9-1985]


     92. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


                                                   VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
