---
title: "Chapter 205: Telecommunications Franchising And Licensing"
chapter: 205
name: "Telecommunications Franchising And Licensing"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 205-1.              Legislative intent.                             § 205-9.               Procedure for consideration of
     § 205-2.              Definitions.                                                           and action on applications.
     § 205-3.              Granting authority.                             § 205-10.              Terms and conditions of
     § 205-4.              Compliance with rules; permits                                         franchise.
                           required.                                       § 205-11.              Terms and conditions of
     § 205-5.              Submission of application.                                             revocable license.
     § 205-6.              Responsibilities of applicants.                 § 205-12.              Severability.
     § 205-7.              Negotiation of agreement.                       § 205-13.              Delegation.
     § 205-8.              Factors for review of
                           application.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 12-18-2000 by
     L.L. No. 5-2000.88 Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                           GENERAL REFERENCES

     Telecommunications towers — See Ch. 206.                              Zoning — See Ch. 230.


     § 205-1. Legislative intent.

     The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has the authority to grant franchises and other authorizations for the
     use and occupancy of its streets and has determined that its streets are a valuable public resource that
     has required, and will continue to require, substantial investment by the village. The village desires to
     structure and implement a fair and orderly process for the grant of franchises and other authorizations (and
     renewals of such franchises and authorizations) to occupy and use its streets to provide telecommunications
     services (as hereinafter defined) in the village, including the negotiation of terms and conditions to
     protect the public interest consistent with applicable law. In addition, consistent with applicable law, the
     village desires to manage its streets and obtain fair and reasonable compensation from telecommunications
     providers on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis for the use of its streets on a
     nondiscriminatory basis. The village also desires to minimize inconvenience and disruption to the public,
     provide for the orderly and efficient use of its streets now and in the future and preserve adequate capacity
     for existing and future uses of its streets; and the village intends to exercise, to the fullest extent permitted
     by applicable law, its authority with respect to the regulation of the occupation and use of its streets in
     connection with the provision of telecommunications services.


     88. Editor's Note: This chapter was adopted as Ch. 310, but was renumbered to fit into the alphabetical organization of the Code. This
         local law also provided that, to the extent permitted by law, the village may determine to apply all or certain provisions of this
         chapter to telecommunications providers and franchises and other right-of-way authorizations existing on the effective date of this
         chapter.


     § 205-2. Definitions.

     For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the
     meanings set forth in this section, unless the context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended.
     When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
     the plural number include the singular number and words used in the singular number include the plural
     number.
     AFFILIATED PERSON — Each person who falls into one or more of the following categories: each
     person having, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest in the applicant; each person in which the
     applicant has, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest; each officer, director, joint venturer or joint
     venture partner, of the applicant; and each person, directly or indirectly, controlling, controlled by or under
     common control with the applicant; provided that "affiliated person" shall in no event mean the village
     or any creditor of the applicant solely by virtue of its status as a creditor and which is not otherwise an
     affiliated person by reason of owning a controlling interest in, being under common ownership, common
     management or common control with, the applicant.
     BOARD OF TRUSTEES — The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and its designee
     or any successor thereto.
     CABLE SERVICES — As defined in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Cable
     Communications Policy Act of 1984, the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
     1992 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and as may be further amended from time to time (the
     "Cable Act"). In the event that "cable services" is no longer defined in the Cable Act or the definition in
     the Cable Act otherwise becomes inapplicable, "cable services" shall mean "cable services" as defined in
     the Cable Act immediately prior to such term no longer being defined in the Cable Act or such definition
     otherwise becoming inapplicable.
     CHAPTER — This chapter and all modifications and amendments thereto.
     CONTROL or CONTROLLING INTEREST — Actual working control in whatever manner exercised,
     including, without limitation, working control through ownership, management, debt instruments or
     negative control, as the case may be, of the applicant or the equipment in the street. A rebuttable
     presumption of the existence of control or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership,
     directly or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more than 20% of any
     person (which person or group of persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control" or
     "controlling interest" as used herein may be held simultaneously by more than one person or group of
     persons.
     EQUIPMENT — The poles, wires, electrical conductors, cables, conduits, subways, manholes, fixtures,
     appliances and appurtenances that are used to provide telecommunications services.
     FRANCHISE — An initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the village in accordance with
     the provisions of this chapter, which authorizes the occupation and use of the streets to provide
     telecommunications services.
     MAY — Being permissive.
     PERSON — Any individual or any association, firm, partnership, joint venture, corporation or other legally
     recognized entity, whether for profit or not for profit, but shall not mean the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
     REVOCABLE LICENSE — An initial authorization or renewal thereof, issued by the village in
     accordance with the provisions of this chapter, which authorizes the limited occupation and use of
     specifically identified streets, provided that a revocable license shall be issued only in the limited
     circumstances set forth in § 205-3, Subsections B and G, of this chapter.


     SHALL — Being mandatory, not merely directive.
     STREETS — The surface of, as well as the spaces above and below, any and all streets, alleyways,
     avenues, highways, boulevards, driveways, bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, public grounds or waters,
     and other public rights-of-way within or belonging to the village.
     TELECOMMUNICATIONS — All transmissions, between or among points specified by the user, of
     information of the user's choosing without change in the form or content of the information as sent and
     received.
     TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER — Any person who:

     A.    Owns, constructs, operates or maintains equipment in the streets used to provide telecommunications
           services, regardless of whether such telecommunications services originate or terminate in the village;
           or

     B.    Provides telecommunications services that originate or terminate in the village by means of:
           specifically identifiable equipment in the streets, which equipment is owned by such person or made
           available to such person under a lease or any other arrangement for a period longer than 120 days; or
           equipment in the streets, if the use of such equipment is continuing and substantial, and the village
           has determined that it is necessary and appropriate to impose the requirements of this chapter in order
           to preserve the application of this chapter on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis
           consistent with applicable law.
     TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES — The offering of telecommunications for a fee directly to the
     public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively available directly to the public, regardless of the
     facilities used. The term "telecommunications services" shall not include cable services.
     TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM — The plant, equipment, real property (including interests in real
     property), tangible and intangible personal property, buildings, offices, furniture, customer lists, cable,
     wires, optical fibers, amplifier, antenna and all other electronic devices, equipment and facilities used to
     provide telecommunications services.
     VILLAGE — The Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.

     § 205-3. Granting authority.

     A.    Franchise, license or permission required. [Amended 9-15-2008 by L.L. No. 6-2008]

           (1)    No person shall use or occupy the streets as a telecommunications provider, or construct,
                  operate or maintain equipment in the streets used to provide telecommunications services,
                  without a franchise or revocable license granted by the Village, or in the case of a person
                  providing service under Title 27 of the New York Transportation Corporations Law, without the
                  permission of the Village. Permissions granted after the effective date of this ordinance89 shall
                  be in the form of a franchise of license issued in accordance with this chapter, but nothing in
                  this Subsection A(1) is intended to revoke any existing permission.

           (2)    A franchise or revocable license granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
                  not be construed to grant any rights or authorization to provide cable services in the Village, and
                  any person seeking to provide cable services in the Village or seeking to construct a cable
                  system or any part of a cable system separate and apart from Title 27 authorized facilities used
                  in the provision of telecommunications services shall first obtain a separate franchise in


     89. Editor's Note: "This ordinance" refers to L.L. No. 6-2008.


                  accordance with applicable law.

     B.    Any person seeking to use the streets to construct, operate or maintain equipment to provide
           telecommunications for or in connection with the internal operations of such person's business,
           residence or employment and not for or in connection with the provision or offering of
           telecommunications services for sale or resale to any person in the village shall first obtain a
           revocable license in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

     C.    The Board of Trustees may grant one or more franchises and revocable licenses in accordance with
           this chapter, provided that the Board of Trustees reserves the right to modify any provision of this
           chapter by amendment hereof.

     D.    The grant of any franchise or revocable license shall be made by adoption of a separate resolution by
           the Board of Trustees and shall be on such terms and conditions as shall be specified in said separate
           resolution and/or a franchise or license agreement between the village and the franchisee or licensee.

     E.    Any franchise or revocable license granted shall be nonexclusive. The village specifically reserves
           the right to grant, at any time, such additional franchises, revocable licenses or other authorizations
           for use of the streets by any means, as the village deems appropriate.

     F.    A franchise may be granted for all or any defined portion of the village.

     G.    Limitations on grant of license.

           (1)    A revocable license is intended to be a limited grant of authority to use and occupy specifically
                  identified streets to provide telecommunications services and shall be granted only if:

                  (a)    The use or occupation of such streets, together with all revocable licenses previously
                         granted to such person and affiliated persons, shall not exceed 2,500 linear feet; or

                  (b)    The use or occupation of such streets does not involve the offering or provision of
                         telecommunications services to any person within the village.

           (2)    In the event that an application for a revocable license would cause a telecommunications
                  provider to exceed or fail to comply with the limits specified in Subsection G(1)(a) and/or (b)
                  of this subsection, then such telecommunications provider must apply for a franchise in
                  accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and the use of specifically identified streets
                  pursuant to all previously granted revocable licenses shall thereafter be pursuant to and in
                  accordance with any such franchise that may be granted.

     § 205-4. Compliance with rules; permits required.

     A.    Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the village may adopt rules, policies and requirements to
           carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter. Each applicant, franchisee and licensee shall
           comply with such rules, policies and requirements.

     B.    No person shall construct or install any equipment in the streets used to provide telecommunications
           services without first obtaining such permits or other authorizations as may be required by the village.
           No permits or other authorizations for such construction or installation shall be issued prior to the
           granting of a franchise or a revocable license pursuant to this chapter or such other authorization as
           may be required by applicable law.

     § 205-5. Submission of application.


     A.    Applications for franchises and revocable licenses shall be submitted to the Village Manager, with a
           copy also to be submitted to the Village Attorney.

     B.    An application shall contain the following information with respect to the proposed franchise or
           revocable license and such other information with respect to the proposed franchise or revocable
           license as the village may deem necessary or appropriate, consistent with applicable law:

           (1)    The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the person the village may contact
                  concerning the application.

           (2)    A description of the telecommunications services proposed to be provided, including, without
                  limitation, a description of facilities and equipment within the village.

           (3)    A description of the proposed franchise area or, in the case of a revocable license, the
                  specifically identified streets and/or portions thereof proposed to be used.

           (4)    A proposed construction schedule and sequence.

           (5)    A map showing the proposed location of the applicant's telecommunications system.

           (6)    Proposed financing plans for the construction and operation of the telecommunications system
                  by which the proposed telecommunications services would be provided.

           (7)    A description of the legal, financial, technical and other appropriate qualifications of the
                  applicant to hold the franchise or revocable license.

           (8)    Ownership of the applicant and identification of all affiliated persons.

     § 205-6. Responsibilities of applicants.

     It shall be the responsibility of each applicant for a franchise or revocable license to comply with all
     applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and other directives of the village and any
     federal, state or local governmental authority having jurisdiction.

     § 205-7. Negotiation of agreement.

     If an application is complete and otherwise complies with applicable law, ordinances, resolutions, rules,
     regulations and other directives of the village, including the provisions of this chapter, the village shall
     enter into negotiations with the applicant to determine whether such applicant and the village are able to
     reach agreement on the terms of the proposed franchise or revocable license in accordance with §§ 205-10
     and 205-11 of this chapter. The village may reject any application which is incomplete or otherwise fails to
     comply with applicable law, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and other directives of the village
     and any federal, state or local authority having jurisdiction.

     § 205-8. Factors for review of application.

     A.    In making any determination hereunder as to any application for a franchise or revocable license, the
           Board of Trustees may consider such factors as it deems appropriate and in the public interest,
           provided that such factors are consistent with applicable law, including, without limitation:

           (1)    The adequacy of the proposed compensation to be paid to the village, including the value of any
                  facilities and telecommunications services offered by the applicant to the village.


           (2)    The legal, financial, technical and other appropriate qualifications of the applicant.

           (3)    The ability of the applicant to maintain the property of the village in good condition throughout
                  the term of the franchise or the revocable license.

           (4)    Any services or uses of the streets that may be precluded by the grant of the franchise or
                  revocable license; and the adverse impact of the proposed franchise or revocable license on the
                  efficient use of the streets or utilities at present and in the future.

           (5)    The willingness and ability of the applicant to meet construction and physical requirements and
                  to abide by all lawful conditions, limitations, requirements and policies with respect to the
                  franchise or the revocable license.

           (6)    The adequacy of the terms and conditions of the proposed franchise or revocable license
                  agreement to protect the public interest, consistent with applicable law.

           (7)    Any other public interest factors or considerations that the village has a lawful right to consider
                  and that are deemed pertinent by the village for safeguarding the interests of the village and the
                  public.

     B.    Consistent with applicable law, the village may develop and implement policies and requirements to
           ensure that the streets have sufficient capacity reasonably to accommodate existing and future uses in
           a rational and efficient manner. In evaluating an applicant for a franchise or revocable license, the
           village may consider an applicant's proposals for addressing capacity needs and compliance with
           village policies and requirements.

     § 205-9. Procedure for consideration of and action on applications.

     A.    The Board of Trustees may make such investigations and take or authorize the taking of such other
           steps as the Board of Trustees deems necessary or appropriate to consider and act on applications for
           franchises and revocable licenses and to determine whether a franchise or revocable license should
           be granted to an applicant, and may require the applicant to furnish additional information and data
           for this purpose. In considering applications, the Board of Trustees may seek advice from village
           officials, departments, agencies, boards, commissions or bodies, from such other advisory bodies as
           it may establish or determine appropriate, or from the public, and may request the preparation of one
           or more reports to be submitted to the Board of Trustees, which may include recommendations with
           respect to such applications.

     B.    Consistent with applicable law, upon completion of the steps deemed appropriate by the Board of
           Trustees, the Board of Trustees may grant or deny the franchise or revocable license and may specify
           the conditions under which the franchise or revocable license is granted.

     § 205-10. Terms and conditions of franchise.

     A.    The terms and conditions applicable to any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be set forth
           in the separate resolution granting the franchise and/or in a separate written agreement.

     B.    A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall not become effective until said separate resolution
           becomes effective and any separate agreement is executed by both parties. Such separate resolution
           or written agreement, among other things, shall address the following subjects:

           (1)    The term of the franchise.


           (2)    The franchise area and the telecommunications services to be offered.

           (3)    The compensation to be paid to the village, which shall include the payment of fees and/or the
                  provision of facilities or services.

           (4)    The circumstances upon which the franchise may be terminated or cancelled.

           (5)    The mechanisms, such as performance bonds, security funds or letters of credit, to be put in
                  place to ensure the performance of the franchisee's obligations under the franchise.

           (6)    The village's right to inspect the facilities and records of the franchisee.

           (7)    Insurance and indemnification requirements applicable to the franchisee.

           (8)    The obligation of the franchisee to maintain complete and accurate books of account and
                  records, and the village's inspection rights with respect thereto.

           (9)    Provisions to ensure quality workmanship and construction methods.

           (10) Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will comply with all applicable village, state and federal
                laws, regulations, rules and policies.

           (11) The obligation of the franchisee to supply an engineering site plan showing the proposed
                location of the applicant's telecommunications system within the village, including the
                connection to any portion of applicant's telecommunications system outside the village, any
                manholes or overhead poles, the size, type and proposed depth of any conduit or other
                enclosures and the relationship of the system to all existing poles, utilities, sidewalks, pavement,
                telecommunications systems and other improvements in the streets, all of which shall be subject
                to approval by the appropriate village departments.

           (12) Provisions to place reasonable limitations upon the assignment or other transfer of the franchise.

           (13) Remedies available to the village to protect the village's interest in the event of the franchisee's
                failure to comply with terms and conditions of the franchise.

           (14) Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will obtain all necessary licenses and permits from, and
                comply with, all laws, regulations, rules and policies of any governmental body having
                jurisdiction over the franchisee, including the Federal Communications Commission.

           (15) Provisions to ensure that the franchisee will protect the property of the village and the delivery
                of public services from damage or interruption of operations resulting from the construction,
                operation, maintenance, repair or removal of improvements related to the franchise.

           (16) Provisions designed to minimize the extent to which the public use of the streets of the village
                are disrupted in connection with the construction of improvements relating to the franchise.

           (17) Such other provisions as the village determines are necessary or appropriate in furtherance of
                the public interest consistent with applicable law.

     § 205-11. Terms and conditions of revocable license.

     A.    The terms and conditions applicable to any revocable license granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
           set forth in the separate resolution granting the revocable license and/or in a separate written
           agreement. A revocable license granted pursuant to this chapter shall not become effective until the


     § 205-11                                    CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

           separate resolution granting the license becomes effective and any separate written agreement is
           executed by both parties. Such separate resolution and/or written agreement shall address the same
           subjects listed in § 205-10 of this chapter subject to the following limitations:

           (1)    The revocable license shall be for a term not to exceed 10 years from the date that the resolution
                  granting the revocable license becomes effective.

           (2)    The revocable license shall be revocable at any time by the village for cause or for the village's
                  purposes.

           (3)    The revocable license, together with all revocable licenses previously granted to the applicant
                  or affiliated persons, shall not authorize the occupation and use of more than 2,500 linear feet
                  of specifically identified streets, unless the use or occupation of the streets does not involve the
                  offering or provision of telecommunications services to any person in the village.

     B.    In the event that an application for a revocable license would cause a telecommunications provider to
           exceed or fail to comply with the limits specified in Subsection A(3) of this section, then such
           telecommunications provider must apply for a franchise in accordance with the provisions of this
           chapter, and the use of specifically identified streets pursuant to all previously granted revocable
           licenses shall thereafter be pursuant to and in accordance with any such franchise that may be granted.

     § 205-12. Severability.

     If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or other portion of this chapter is, for any reason,
     declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority
     of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion.
     Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall
     continue in full force and effect.

     § 205-13. Delegation.

     The Board of Trustees shall have the right to delegate and redelegate, and to revoke any such delegation or
     redelegation, from time to time, any of its rights or obligations under this chapter to any body, organization
     or official of the village. Any such delegation, redelegation or revocation, no matter how often made, shall
     not be deemed an amendment to this chapter or to require the consent of any applicant for a franchise or
     revocable license or franchisee or licensee.


                                            TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS                                             § 206-3
