---
title: "Chapter 29: Local Laws, Adoption Of"
chapter: 29
name: "Local Laws, Adoption Of"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 29-1.                Notice of public hearing.                      § 29-2.                Conduct of hearing.
                                                                           § 29-3.                Proof of publication of notice.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson; 2-20-1958 by
     L.L. No. 1-1958. Section 29-1 amended at time of adoption of Code, see Ch. 1, General Provisions,
     Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                            GENERAL REFERENCES

     Meetings — See Ch. 33.                                                Destruction of public notices — See Ch. 170.

     Designation of official newspaper — See Ch. 36.


     § 29-1. Notice of public hearing.6

     Before voting upon the enactment of a local law, the Board of Trustees shall determine a day for a public
     hearing thereon, and, within 20 days after such proposed law shall have been presented to said Board, the
     Village Clerk shall cause public notice of the time and place of such hearing to be given. Such public notice
     shall be given by the Village Clerk by causing the same to be published once in the official newspaper of
     the Village of Croton-on-Hudson at least five days prior to the day fixed for such public hearing.7 In case
     there is, at the time, no official newspaper of the village, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-
     on-Hudson shall designate the manner of giving such public notice. Such notice shall contain the title of
     the proposed local law and a brief explanatory statement thereof prepared by the Village Clerk.

     § 29-2. Conduct of hearing.

     Such hearing shall be held within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson at a reasonable time and place, and
     at such hearing the Board of Trustees shall offer an opportunity to all interested persons to be heard
     concerning such proposed local law.

     § 29-3. Proof of publication of notice.

     Proof of publication of such notice of hearing shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.


     6.   Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.
     7.   Editor's Note: See also § 20 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.


                                                       CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE
