---
title: "Chapter 23: Greenway Compact Plan"
chapter: 23
name: "Greenway Compact Plan"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 23-1.               Adoption of Westchester                § 23-3.             Consistency of land use laws
                           County Greenway Compact                                    with plan.
                           Plan.                                  § 23-4.             Home rule authority.
     § 23-2.               Amendments.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 11-19-2001 by
     L.L. No. 13-2001. Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Subdivision of land — See Ch. 200.                           Zoning — See Ch. 230.


     § 23-1. Adoption of Westchester County Greenway Compact Plan.

     Pursuant to the provisions of § 44-0119 of the Environmental Conservation Law of the State of New
     York, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby adopts the statement of policies, principles and guides
     detailed in the four compendiums titled, Tourism and Economic Development Plan (April 1997), Hudson
     River Waterfront Present and Future (June 1998), Building Livable Downtowns (June 1999) and Growing
     Smarter Together (September 2000), and Patterns for Westchester: The Land and the People, which
     together comprise the Westchester County Greenway Compact Plan (hereinafter referred to as "Greenway
     Compact Plan"), by which the Village of Croton-on-Hudson becomes a participating community in the
     Greenway Compact.

     § 23-2. Amendments.

     Proposals to amend the Greenway Compact Plan may from time to time be made by the Hudson River
     Valley Greenway Communities Council (hereinafter referred to as "Greenway Council") in response
     to requests from participating communities. Within 90 days of receipt of any such proposal from the
     Greenway Council, the Village Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall determine by resolution
     whether to accept or to reject such proposed amendment. Any proposed amendment so accepted shall be
     considered an amendment of the Greenway Compact Plan as adopted by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
     Any proposed amendment rejected by the Village Board will not be considered to be an amendment of
     the Greenway Plan for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and notice of such rejection shall promptly be
     provided to the Greenway Council.

     § 23-3. Consistency of land use laws with plan.

     It is stated policy of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson that, to the extent the Village amends its current, or
     enacts new, land use laws and regulations, such new or amended laws and regulations, where appropriate,
     should be designed to be consistent with the Greenway Compact Plan.


     § 23-4                                      CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     § 23-4. Home rule authority.

     Nothing in this chapter adopting the Compact Plan, or in becoming a participating community in the
     Compact Pan, is intended, or shall be construed:

     A.    To limit the home rule authority of the Village under state law to make local land use and zoning
           decisions;

     B.    To authorize any other entity to supersede the Village's land use laws and regulations and to impose
           any requirements on the Village; or

     C.    To prevent the Village in its sole discretion from adopting a local law at a later date for the purpose
           of withdrawing from the Greenway Compact of Westchester County Greenway Compact Plan.


                                                    LOCAL LAWS, ADOPTION OF
