---
title: "Chapter 219: Vehicles, Unlicensed Motor-Driven"
chapter: 219
name: "Vehicles, Unlicensed Motor-Driven"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 219-1.               Legislative intent.                   § 219-6.              Exceptions.
     § 219-2.               Definitions.                          § 219-7.              Responsibilities of parents and
     § 219-3.               Operation on public property                                guardians.
                            prohibited.                           § 219-8.              Notice of violation by minors.
     § 219-4.               Operation on private property         § 219-9.              Impoundment.
                            restricted.                           § 219-10.             Conflicts with state law.
     § 219-5.               Careless or negligent operation
                            prohibited.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 10-3-1977 as
     L.L No. 15-1977. Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Penalties for offenses — See Ch. 1, § 1-12.                  Riding on sidewalks — See Ch. 197, Art. I.

     Boats — See Ch. 83.                                          Vehicle and traffic regulations — See Ch. 215.

     Noise — See Ch. 160.                                         Operation in controlled areas — See Ch. 227, § 227-8.

     Vehicles in parks — See Ch. 168.


     § 219-1. Legislative intent.

     The Board of Trustees recognizes the potential adverse impact on the health, safety and general welfare of
     the residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and to property within the village by the use of unlicensed
     motor-driven vehicles and, therefore, deems it appropriate to control the use of said vehicles.

     § 219-2. Definitions.
     For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     PUBLIC PROPERTY — All streets, sidewalks, easements or any other areas dedicated or commonly used
     for vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
     UNLICENSED MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLE — Any type of unlicensed motor-driven vehicle or
     conveyance, including but not necessarily limited to snowmobiles, two-wheeled motor vehicles known
     as "trail bikes" and "motor scooters" and four-wheeled motor vehicles commonly known as "go-carts" or
     "all-terrain vehicles," but not including mopeds or any vehicle used for agricultural landscaping or lawn
     maintenance purposes.
     VILLAGE-OWNED LAND — All parks, recreation areas, ballparks, lake areas, storage facilities, garage
     areas, parking areas and any and all other village-owned land and premises.


     § 219-3                               VEHICLES, UNLICENSED MOTOR-DRIVEN                                                  § 219-9

     § 219-3. Operation on public property prohibited.

     It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any unlicensed motor-driven vehicle upon any public property
     or village-owned land in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 219-4. Operation on private property restricted.108

     A.     The operation of an unlicensed motor-driven vehicle is prohibited upon private property unless the
            operator of said unlicensed motor-driven vehicle has the express permission of the owner of said
            private property to operate said vehicle on said property.

     B.     Any driver or operator of an unlicensed motor-driven vehicle who enters or remains upon private
            property which is either fenced or otherwise enclosed in a manner designed to exclude intruders or
            where notice against trespassers is given by posting in a conspicuous manner or where notice against
            trespassing has been personally communicated to such person by the owner of such land or other
            authorized person shall be presumed to be operating without the permission of the owner of said
            property.

     § 219-5. Careless or negligent operation prohibited.109

     It shall be unlawful to operate any unlicensed motor-driven vehicle in a careless, reckless or negligent
     manner so as to endanger the safety of any person or the property of any person.

     § 219-6. Exceptions.

     A.     It shall not be unlawful for any employee of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to operate unlicensed
            motor-driven vehicles for the purpose of maintaining, repairing or doing any public work within the
            scope of his employment.

     B.     Nothing herein shall prohibit the use or operation of unlicensed motor-driven vehicles on premises
            duly approved for such use by the appropriate officials or municipal regulatory bodies of the Village
            of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 219-7. Responsibilities of parents and guardians.

     It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or any person having the care, custody and control of any child
     under the age of 16 years knowingly to permit such child to operate an unlicensed motor-driven vehicle in
     violation of the terms of this chapter.

     § 219-8. Notice of violation by minors.

     Whenever any child under the age of 16 years is alleged to have violated this chapter, his parent, guardian
     or any person having the care, custody or control of the child shall be notified by the Chief of Police or any
     person designated by him to give such notice.

     § 219-9. Impoundment.

     The police shall immediately impound any unlicensed motor-driven vehicle operated in violation of this
     chapter. The unlicensed motor-driven vehicle shall be returned upon payment of the fine or upon direction

     108. Editor's Note: See also § 2404 of the Vehicle and Traffic Law for regulations pertaining to all-terrain vehicles.
     109. Editor's Note: See also § 2404 of the Vehicle and Traffic Law for regulations pertaining to all-terrain vehicles.


     § 219-9                                     CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     of the court.

     § 219-10. Conflicts with state law.

     Should any section or portion of this chapter be in conflict with the laws of the State of New York
     applicable to the operation, registration, ownership or control of unlicensed motor vehicles, then in that
     instance said laws of the State of New York shall prevail.


                                                              WATER
