---
title: "Chapter 31: Manager, Village"
chapter: 31
name: "Manager, Village"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 31-1.                 Administration of village
                             affairs.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 10-18-1971 by
     L.L. No. 1-1971. Section 31-1 amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions,
     Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                               GENERAL REFERENCES

     Code of Ethics — See Ch. 20.                                              Salaries and compensation — See Ch. 54.


     § 31-1. Administration of village affairs.8

     The administration of village affairs shall be under the direction of a Village Manager in conformity with
     the provisions of the Village Law, Article15-A, §§ 369, 370, 371, 372, 373, and 374.9 The Village Manager
     shall have and exercise such other powers and duties as designated by local law of the Board of Trustees.


     8.   Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code, see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.
     9.   Editor's Note: Article 15-A of the former Village Law has been repealed. However, its provisions continue with regard to villages like
          Croton-on-Hudson that adopted such provisions prior to the repeal. Former §§ 371,372, 373 and 374 of the Village Law, regarding
          the powers and duties of the Manager, read as follows:§ 371. Administrative and executive powers.--The administrative and
          executive powers of the village including the power of appointment of officers and employees, except the village clerk, village
          attorney and treasurer and in the county of Westchester officers and members of the police department where such a department
          has been established pursuant to law, are vested in an official to be known as the village manager who shall be appointed by the
          board of trustees and hold office during the pleasure of such board; he shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed by the board
          of trustees. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the board of trustees may also appoint the village manager to the office of
          village clerk to serve in such office at the discretion of such board.§ 372. General duties of village manager.--The Village manager
          shall be the administrative head of the village government. He shall see that within the village, the laws of the state and ordinances,
          rules, and by-laws of the board of trustees are faithfully executed, he shall attend all meetings of the board of trustees and
          recommend for adoption such measures as he shall deem expedient; he shall make reports to the board of trustees from time to time
          upon the affairs of the village, keep the board of trustees fully advised of the financial condition of the village and its future financial
          needs; he shall prepare and submit to the council, a tentative budget for the next fiscal year.§ 373. Appointment of village officers
          and employees.--Such village officers and employees as the board of trustees shall determine are necessary for the proper
          administration of the village, except the village clerk, village attorney and treasurer and in the county of Westchester officers and
          members of the police department where such a department has been established pursuant to law, shall be appointed by and may be
          removed by the village manager; but the village manager shall report each such appointment and removal to the board of trustees at
          the next meeting thereof following any such appointment or removal; the village clerk, village attorney, village treasurer and officers
          and members of the police department where such a department has been established pursuant to law, shall be appointed and their
          salary or compensation fixed by the board of trustees as provided in this chapter.§ 374. Powers and duties of other village officers.--
          The officers and employees of the village, excepting the police justice, village clerk, village attorney and village treasurer shall
          perform such duties as may be required of them by the village manager under general regulations of the board of trustees.


                                                            MEETINGS                                            § 33-3
