---
title: "Chapter 33: Meetings"
chapter: 33
name: "Meetings"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 33-1.               Purpose.                               § 33-8.              Notice of meetings scheduled
     § 33-2.               Definitions.                                                one week in advance.
     § 33-3.               Establishment of dates and             § 33-9.              Notice of meetings scheduled
                           times of annual, regular and                                less than one week in advance.
                           special meetings.                      § 33-10.             Notice of changes in scheduled
     § 33-4.               Posting of notice of meetings.                              meetings.
     § 33-5.               Notice to news media.                  § 33-11.             Executive sessions.
     § 33-6.               Method of notification.                § 33-12.             Minutes.
     § 33-7.               Notice of regularly scheduled
                           meetings.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 7-18-1977 by
     L.L. No. 14-1977. Sections 33-3B and 33-11B amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1,
     General Provisions, Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Adoption of local laws — See Ch. 29.                         Official newspaper — See Ch. 36.


     § 33-1. Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to comply with the provisions of the Open Meetings Law (Article 7 of
     the Public Officers Law) and to ensure that public business is performed in an open and public manner,
     enabling the people to observe the operation of public bodies and to attend and listen to the deliberations
     and decisions of the Board.

     § 33-2. Definitions.

     A.    The terms, words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meanings as such terms, words
           and phrases are defined in § 102 of the Public Officers Law.

     B.    As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
           BOARD — The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
           NEWS MEDIA — The official newspapers of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as they may be
           determined from time to time.

     § 33-3. Establishment of dates and times of annual, regular and special meetings.

     A.    The Board is authorized to establish by resolution rules of procedure regulating annual and regular
           meetings of the Board and fixing the dates, places and times thereof. The Board may amend such
           rules of procedure from time to time.


     B.     Special meetings of the Board of Trustees may be called by the Mayor or by any two Trustees at a
            regularly scheduled meeting or by causing a written notice, specifying the date, time and place
            thereof, to be served upon each member of the Board personally at least 24 hours before the meeting
            or by leaving a notice at his residence or place of business with some person of suitable age and
            discretion at least 36 hours before the meeting or by mailing such notice 72 hours before such
            meeting. The person or persons calling the special meeting as provided above shall at the same time
            advise the Village Clerk of the date, time and place of such meeting so that the Village Clerk may
            cause to be given notice thereof to the public and news media in compliance with the Open Meetings
            Law and this chapter. If the person or persons calling such special meeting are unable to advise the
            Village Clerk of the special meeting or the Village Clerk is unable to give the required notice to the
            public and news media, then the person or persons calling such special meeting shall cause to be
            given notice thereof to the public and news media. A record of the notice given shall be kept by the
            Village Clerk in the village office.10

     C.     All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and the news media, except executive sessions
            as set forth in § 33-11 herein.

     D.     The public and the news media may attend meetings but may not participate without the specific
            authorization of the Board.

     § 33-4. Posting of notice of meetings.

     A notice of meetings of the Board shall be posted on the bulletin board outside the village office in the
     Municipal Building.

     § 33-5. Notice to news media.

     The news media shall receive notice of the meetings of the Board. Any other newspaper, radio or television
     station which requests notice of the meetings of the Board shall receive such notice.

     § 33-6. Method of notification.

     A.     Notice of meetings of the Board shall be provided to the public and the news media by the Village
            Clerk.

     B.     Whenever possible, notice of the date, time and place of meetings of the Board shall be provided to
            any person who requests the same, whether a request is made in person, in writing or by telephone.

     C.     As necessary, a member of the Village Clerk's staff shall be designated to assist in providing such
            notice.

     § 33-7. Notice of regularly scheduled meetings.

     A.     When the Board schedules meetings in advance that are to be held regularly at specific times and
            locations and on specific dates, a single notice may be provided to the public and the news media
            annually or whenever meetings become regularly scheduled.

     B.     A notice of the regularly scheduled meetings shall be posted at the location designated in § 33-4
            herein. Copies of such notice shall be available at the village office.


     10. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


     C.     A notice of the regularly scheduled meetings shall be provided by mail to the news media designated
            in § 33-5.

     § 33-8. Notice of meetings scheduled one week in advance.

     A.     A notice of meetings scheduled at least one week in advance shall be posted at least 72 hours in
            advance of such meetings at the location designated by § 33-4 herein.

     B.     Notice of meetings scheduled at least one week in advance shall be given to the news media
            designated in § 33-5 at least 72 hours in advance of such meetings.

            (1)    Notice provided by mail to the news media shall be sent at least one week in advance of such
                   meetings to ensure that notice will be provided to the news media at least 72 hours in advance
                   of a meeting.

            (2)    When notice to the news media is delivered personally or is given by telephone, a form or log
                   shall be kept in which the Village Clerk providing the notice shall record the date, time and
                   name of the representative of the news media to whom notice was provided and shall so certify
                   in writing.

     § 33-9. Notice of meetings scheduled less than one week in advance.

     A.     A notice of meetings scheduled less than a week in advance shall be posted as soon as practicable at
            the location designated in § 33-4 herein.

     B.     To the extent practicable, notice to the news media designated in § 33-5 shall be delivered personally
            or by telephone pursuant to the standards set forth in § 33-8B(2) above.

     § 33-10. Notice of changes in scheduled meetings.

     When the time, date or location of a scheduled meeting is changed, the Village Clerk shall, as soon as
     possible and to the extent practicable:

     A.     Cause a notice to be posted at the location designated in § 33-4 signifying the change.

     B.     Provide notice of such change to the news media designated in § 33-5.

     § 33-11. Executive sessions.

     A.     A motion calling for an executive session must identify the general subject to be considered at that
            session. That motion must be adopted by a majority vote of the total membership of the Board taken
            at an open meeting.

     B.     Executive sessions may be convened for the purposes enumerated in § 105 of the Public Officers
            Law.11

     C.     Attendance at executive sessions shall be permitted only to the members of the Board and other
            persons authorized by the Board.

     § 33-12. Minutes.


     11. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


     § 33-12                                     CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     A.    Minutes shall be taken at all open meetings of the Board and shall be available to the public after their
           approval by the Board at the next scheduled meeting.

     B.    Minutes shall be taken at executive sessions only of actions taken by formal vote, if any, and shall
           consist of a summary of such action and the vote thereon.

           (1)    Minutes of executive sessions shall be available to the public within one week from the date of
                  the executive session.

           (2)    Unless the Board approves such minutes within the one-week period, the Mayor is authorized
                  to approve the minutes of any executive session as soon as practicable after any such session so
                  that they may be available to the public in accordance with Subsection B(1) above. Approval by
                  the Mayor is subject to ratification by the Board at the next scheduled meeting.


                                                       NEWSPAPER, OFFICIAL
