---
title: "Chapter 40: Planning Board"
chapter: 40
name: "Planning Board"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 40-1.               Authority to approve plats.                 § 40-2.             Approval of prefiled plats.
                                                                       § 40-3.             Site plan approval.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 12-16-1974 by
     resolution. Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                           GENERAL REFERENCES

     Subdivision of land — See Ch. 200.                                Zoning — See Ch. 230.


     § 40-1. Authority to approve plats.

     For the purpose of providing for the future growth and development of the village and affording adequate
     facilities for the housing, transportation, distribution, comfort, convenience, safety, health and welfare of
     its population, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, hereby authorizes
     the Planning Board of the village to approve plats showing lots, blocks or sites, with or without streets or
     highways, and to approve conditionally preliminary plats,12 all as defined and set forth in § 7-728 of the
     Village Law of the State of New York.

     § 40-2. Approval of prefiled plats.

     For the same purposes and under the same conditions, the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes and
     empowers the Planning Board to approve the development of plats entirely or partially undeveloped which
     have been filed in the office of the Clerk of Westchester County prior to the appointment of the Planning
     Board and the grant to it of the power to approve plats.

     § 40-3. Site plan approval.

     In all cases where site plan approval by the Planning Board is required by Chapter 230, Zoning, the
     authority for final action on the approval of such site plan is delegated to the Planning Board, and any
     building or use permit for the development of such land shall only be issued subject to compliance with
     such approved site plan and any restrictions imposed in relation thereto by the Planning Board, and any
     certificate of occupancy or compliance shall only be issued subject to continued compliance with such site
     plan and restrictions imposed in relation thereto by the Planning Board. This resolution is adopted pursuant
     to Chapter 788 of the 1974 Session Laws of the State of New York 13and is intended to confer upon the
     Planning Board the full powers authorized by said chapter and to ratify and confirm any conferral of such
     powers previously given.


     12. Editor's Note: See also Ch. 200, Subdivision of Land
     13. Editor's Note: See § 236 of the General Municipal Law.


                                                        POLICE DEPARTMENT
