---
title: "Chapter 4: Appearance Tickets"
chapter: 4
name: "Appearance Tickets"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 4-1.                 Purpose.                                       § 4-2.                 Authorization for issuance by
                                                                                                  certain public servants.
                                                                           § 4-3.                 Issuance by peace officers.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 8-20-1979 by
     L.L. No. 8-1979. Amendments noted where applicable.]


     § 4-1. Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to allow the issuance of appearance tickets by the public servants of the
     Village of Croton-on-Hudson charged with the enforcement of certain statutes, local laws, ordinances,
     rules or regulations pursuant to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Law and Municipal Home Rule
     Law of the State of New York.

     § 4-2. Authorization for issuance by certain public servants.

     Any public servant of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson who, by virtue of his office, title or position, is
     authorized or required to enforce any statute, local law, ordinance, rule or regulation relating to parking,
     licensing of occupations or businesses, fire prevention and safety, health and sanitation and building,
     zoning and planning is hereby authorized to issue an appearance ticket directing a person to appear in the
     local criminal court at a designated future time and date in connection with his alleged commission of an
     offense.2

     § 4-3. Issuance by peace officers.

     All peace officers enforcing the statutes, local laws, ordinances, rules or regulations of the State of New
     York or the Village of Croton-on-Hudson within the jurisdictional limits of the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson are hereby authorized to issue appearance tickets relating to enforcement of any statute, local law,
     ordinance, rule or regulation affecting the public health, safety and welfare.


     2.   Editor's Note: For authority of the Dog Warden to issue appearance tickets, see Chapter 108, Dogs, § 108-10.


                                                    CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                     § 7-1
