---
title: "Chapter 42: Police Department"
chapter: 42
name: "Police Department"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 0
---

ARTICLE I                                                          ARTICLE II
               Intermunicipal Police Assistance                                    Police Rules and Regulations

     § 42-1.               Delegation of power to request             § 42-3.               Powers and duties of Police
                           or render assistance.                                            Chief.
     § 42-2.               Definitions.                               § 42-4.               General rules.
                                                                      § 42-5.               Disciplinary procedures.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson: Art. I,
     8-20-1979 by L.L. No. 9-1979; Art. II, 9-21-1987 by L.L. No. 6-1987. Amendments noted where
     applicable.]

                                                           GENERAL REFERENCES

     Issuance of appearance tickets by peace officers — See Ch. 4.    Alarm systems connected to Police Department — See Ch. 70.

     Code of Ethics — See Ch. 20.                                     Police Chief as fireworks permit authority — See Ch. 127.

     Salaries and compensation — See Ch. 54.


                                                       ARTICLE I
                                              Intermunicipal Police Assistance
                                           [Adopted 8-20-1979 as L.L. No. 9-1979]

     § 42-1. Delegation of power to request or render assistance.

     The powers granted to the Mayor or Village Manager of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson pursuant to
     § 209-m of the General Municipal Law of the State of New York relating to the requesting and granting of
     police assistance from and to other local governments is hereby delegated to the Chief of Police.

     § 42-2. Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     CHIEF OF POLICE — Includes any police officer in command of the Police Department of the Village
     of Croton-on-Hudson during the absence, illness or disability of the Chief of Police or who is authorized
     by the rules and regulations of the Police Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to exercise
     the powers of the Chief of Police in the absence or unavailability of the Chief of Police or in emergency
     situations.


                                                 ARTICLE II
                                         Police Rules and Regulations
          [Adopted 9-2-1987 by L.L. No. 6-1987; amended in its entirety 7-10-2023 by L.L. No. 14-2023]

     § 42-3. Powers and duties of Police Chief.

     A.     The Chief of Police is the chief executive officer of the Police Department and is directly responsible
            to the Village Manager. He or she shall be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Department
            within the guidelines established by the Board of Trustees. The Chief shall supervise adherence to
            these rules and regulations affecting police operations.

     B.     The Chief may issue such further written instructions for the guidance of members of the Department
            in the conduct of their police duties as he or she may from time to time determine, and all such
            instructions shall have the force and effect of orders and commands of the Chief to each and every
            member of the Department. These instructions shall make up the Department Operations Manual,
            over which the Chief has authority to add, delete or revise material therein.

     C.     The Chief shall also have direct supervision of the entire police force and will be held responsible for
            the enforcement of these rules and regulations for the preservation of order, the Department
            Operations Manual and the enforcement of the laws and ordinances of the village. He or she shall
            make and file with the Village Manager a monthly and annual written report concerning the operation
            of the Police Department in such form as the Village Manager shall prescribe.

     D.     In the absence of the Chief of Police or his or her inability to serve, the Chief shall designate a
            subordinate to command the Department. If the Chief is unable to designate an Acting Chief, the
            Village Manager shall designate an Acting Chief.

     § 42-4. General rules.

     All members of the Police Department are subject to the rules and regulations of the Village of Croton-on-
     Hudson Police Department set forth at length in the Department Operations Manual. Failure to conform to
     these rules and procedures will result in disciplinary measures.

     § 42-5. Disciplinary procedures.

     A.     The Chief of Police is responsible for discipline within the Department. All disciplinary matters shall
            be conducted in accordance with § 5711-q of the Unconsolidated Laws and other applicable statutes.
            This authority is also conferred upon the ranking officers who supervise other officers.

     B.     The Chief of Police is authorized to dispose of minor dereliction which he can correct or the
            recurrence of which he can prevent by admonition or warning. A disorder or neglect to the prejudice
            of good order, efficiency or discipline, though not specifically mentioned in the Department
            Operations Manual, may be disposed through command discipline mutually agreed to by the officer
            in question and the Chief of Police.

     C.     The Village Clerk shall maintain a personnel record of each member of the Department, which shall
            show all disciplinary action and all commendations. The review of a member's personnel record shall
            be in accordance with the regulations set forth in the union contract.

     D.     Any suspended officer shall immediately deliver to the Chief of Police or the ranking officer on duty
            all village property in his or her possession.


     E.    A citizen's complaint against a member of the force must be referred to the Chief of Police. If the
           complaint is against the Chief of Police, it shall be investigated by the Village Manager. If it is against
           any other member of the force, it shall be investigated by the Chief of Police, and his report thereon
           shall be filed with the Village Manager. If the Chief of Police determines from such investigation that
           charges should be preferred against such member of the force, he shall do so.

     F.    Repeated failure to follow proper police procedure may be considered evidence of unsuitability for
           police service.

     G.    Any officer acting in an insubordinate, disrespectful or grossly unprofessional manner may be
           suspended on the spot by the Chief or the ranking officer in charge.


     § 42-5                                          POLICE DEPARTMENT


                                                 CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE
