---
title: "Chapter 58: Traffic Violations Bureau"
chapter: 58
name: "Traffic Violations Bureau"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 58-1.               Establishment.                                 § 58-2.                Jurisdiction and procedure.
                                                                          § 58-3.                Fines; records.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 3-19-1959.
     Section 58-2A and C amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.
     Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                           GENERAL REFERENCES

     Vehicle and traffic regulations — See Ch. 215.


     § 58-1. Establishment.

     A.     The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, pursuant to the power vested in it by
            Article 14-B of the General Municipal Law of the State of New York, creates and hereby authorizes
            the Village Justice of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to establish a Traffic Violations Bureau to
            assist the court in the disposition of offenses in relation to certain traffic violations as hereinafter
            described.

     B.     Such Traffic Violations Bureau shall be in charge of such person or persons and shall be open at such
            hours and on such days as the Village Justice of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson may designate.

     § 58-2. Jurisdiction and procedure.

     A.     Such Traffic Violations Bureau is authorized to dispose of violations of traffic laws, ordinances, rules
            and regulations when such offenses shall not constitute the traffic infraction known as "speeding" or
            a misdemeanor or felony, by permitting a person charged with such an offense, within the limitations
            herein stated, to answer, within a specified time, at the Traffic Violations Bureau, either in person or
            by written power of attorney, by paying a prescribed fine and, in writing, waiving a hearing in court,
            pleading guilty to the charge and authorizing the person in charge of the Bureau to make such plea
            and pay such a fine in court. Acceptance by the Traffic Violations Bureau of the prescribed fine and
            power of attorney shall be deemed complete satisfaction for the violation, and the violator shall be
            given a receipt which so states.18

     B.     If a person charged with a traffic violation does not answer as hereinabove prescribed within the
            designated time, the Traffic Violations Bureau shall cause a complaint to be entered against him
            forthwith and a warrant to be issued for his arrest and appearance before the court.

     C.     Any person who shall have been, within the preceding 12 months, guilty of a number of parking
            violations in excess of such maximum number as the court shall designate or of three or more
            violations other than parking violations shall not be permitted to appear and answer to a subsequent


     18. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


     § 58-2                                        CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

            violation at the Traffic Violations Bureau but must appear in court at a time specified by the Bureau.19

     D.     Said Traffic Violations Bureau may not and shall not in any way deprive a person of the right to
            counsel or prevent any person from exercising his or her right to appear in court to answer, to explain
            or to defend any charge of a violation of any traffic law, ordinance, rule or regulation.

     § 58-3. Fines; records.

     A.     Said Village Justice of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall designate, within the provisions of
            existing laws, rules and ordinances, the fines to be paid for offenses which may be satisfied at the
            Traffic Violations Bureau as hereinabove set forth.

     B.     The Traffic Violations Bureau shall keep a record of all violations of which each person has been
            guilty, whether such guilt was established in court or in the Traffic Violations Bureau, and also a
            record of all fines collected and the disposition thereof. Said Traffic Violations Bureau shall also
            perform such other or additional duties and keep such other or additional records as shall be
            prescribed by the Village Justice of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or the Board of Trustees of said
            village.


     19. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


                                      VIDEOCONFERENCING BY PUBLIC BODIES                                   § 59-4
