---
title: "Chapter 67: Advertising Materials"
chapter: 67
name: "Advertising Materials"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 67-1.                Definitions.
     § 67-2.                Distribution of handbills and
                            other advertising materials.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 1-3-1977 by
     L.L. No. 3-1977. Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                        GENERAL REFERENCES

     Penalties for offenses — See Ch. 1, § 1-12.                  Peddling and soliciting — See Ch. 172.

     Littering — See Ch. 135.


     § 67-1. Definitions.

     Unless otherwise provided in this chapter or unless another meaning is plainly intended, the following
     definitions apply, and the word "shall," as used throughout this chapter, is always mandatory and is not
     merely directory or discretionary.
     COMMERCIAL HANDBILL — Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular,
     leaflet, pamphlet, paper, picture, booklet or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of
     any matter of literature:

     A.     Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing.

     B.     Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial establishment or other activity
            for the purpose of either directly or indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales.

     C.     Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of
            any kind for which an admission fee is charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. The terms
            of this definition shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up for
            the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition
            or event of any kind when it is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
            information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace,
            safety and good order. However, nothing contained in this definition shall be deemed to authorize
            the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any
            kind without a license where such license is or may be required by any law of this state or by any
            ordinance or law of this village.

     D.     Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is predominantly and
            essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated for advertising purposes or for the private
            benefit and gain of any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
     NEWSPAPER — Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any newspaper
     duly entered with the United States Postal Service in accordance with federal statute or regulation, any


     § 67-1                                       ADVERTISING MATERIALS

     newspaper filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law and, in addition
     thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not fewer than
     four issues per year and sold-to the public.
     PRIVATE PREMISES — Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed or used either wholly
     or in part for private residential purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited
     or vacant, including any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or
     appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
     PUBLIC PLACE — Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other,.public ways and any and
     all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.

     § 67-2. Distribution of handbills and other advertising materials.

     A.    Distributing matter without consent of occupant. No person shall enter upon any private premises in
           the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for the purpose of distributing any advertising matter, commercial
           handbill or commercial printed matter without the consent of the occupant of said premises previously
           given. No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial handbill in or upon private
           premises except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other
           person then present in or upon such private premises.

     B.    Exemption for mail and newspapers. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution
           of mail by the United States or to newspapers, as defined herein, provided that delivery of such
           newspapers has been requested by the owner or occupant of said premises and that newspapers shall
           be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the
           elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.


                                                 CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE
