---
title: "Chapter 61: Public Officer Indemnification"
chapter: 61
name: "Public Officer Indemnification"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 61-1.              Legislative purpose.                   § 61-2.       Section 18 benefits.
                                                                 § 61-3.       Additional indemnification.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 9-8-1998 by
     L.L. No. 3-1998. Amendments noted where applicable.]


     § 61-1. Legislative purpose.

     The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has heretofore recognized the increasing
     litigation exposure faced by public employees and officers and conferred the defense and indemnification
     benefits contained in § 18 of the Public Officers Law on the village's public officials and employees by
     resolution. The Board of Trustees wishes to reaffirm and codify that action and to provide additional
     indemnification and defense protection pursuant to law.

     § 61-2. Section 18 benefits.

     The full benefits of § 18 of the Public Officers Law shall apply to public officials and employees of
     the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall be held liable for the costs
     incurred under the provisions of that section, as well as the costs incurred under § 61-3 of this chapter.

     § 61-3. Additional indemnification.

     The village will provide for the defense of any village officer or employee in any civil action or proceeding
     arising out of any alleged act or omission in which it is alleged that the officer or employee has violated
     the civil rights of the claimant, petitioner or plaintiff under §§ 1981 and 1983 of the U.S. Civil Rights Act.
     The village shall indemnify and save harmless such officer or employee in the amount of any judgment or
     settlement of claim obtained against such officer or employee, including punitive and exemplary damages.
     Such legal defense and indemnification shall be provided only where the officer or employee at the time
     of such alleged act or omission was acting in good faith and within the scope of his public employment,
     powers or duties. The provisions of this section shall be in addition to any other statute, local law or
     enactment providing legal defense and indemnification in civil actions brought against such officer or
     employee.


                                                            (RESERVED)
