---
title: "Chapter 60: Visual Environment Advisory Board"
chapter: 60
name: "Visual Environment Advisory Board"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 60-1.               Legislative intent.                            § 60-3.                Functions.
     § 60-2.               Creation; membership; terms;                   § 60-4.                Powers and responsibilities.
                           officers.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 4-2-1979 by
     L.L. No. 4-1979. Section 60-2A amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions,
     Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                           GENERAL REFERENCES

     Code of Ethics — See Ch. 20.                                         Residence requirement — See Ch. 50.


     § 60-1. Legislative intent.

     The Board of Trustees finds that the economy and quality of life of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson are
     affected by its visual environment. The general welfare of residents and of property owners, as well as
     property values and the tax base, are enhanced by natural and man-made features and structures of visual
     or historic value. They are, conversely, depressed by buildings, streets, neighborhoods, municipal works,
     public spaces and land developments of unattractive or inappropriate appearance. It is the purpose of this
     chapter to safeguard the beneficial effects of such existing natural and man-made features and structures
     and to prevent the harmful effects of future unattractive or inappropriate projects and thus to promote and
     protect the economy, quality of life and general welfare of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     § 60-2. Creation; membership; terms; officers.

     A.     To carry out the purpose of this chapter, there is hereby created an Advisory Board on the Visual
            Environment, hereinafter called the "Board" consisting of five members appointed by the Mayor. The
            members shall serve without compensation. Except as provided elsewhere in this Code, all members
            of the Board shall be village residents20 and shall be qualified by reason of training or experience in
            architecture, community planning, landscape architecture, real estate or other relevant activity or by
            reason of civic interest and sound judgment. Insofar as suitably qualified people can be found within
            the village, the Board shall include an architect, a landscape architect, a community planner and a
            person with experience in village government.21

     B.     Of the persons first appointed, one shall serve until the start of the next official year of the village,
            two until the start of the second ensuing official year and two until the start of the third ensuing
            official year. Thereafter, each person shall serve for a term of three years. Vacancies shall be filled
            by the Mayor for the unexpired term of any member whose place has become vacant.
     C.     The Board shall choose its Chairperson from among the members and shall have full power to make

     20. Editor's Note: See Ch. 50, Residency Requirement, § 50-2.
     21. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


           rules and regulations concerning the conduct of its meetings, the processing of referrals and the
           issuing of reports.

     § 60-3. Functions.

     A.    The Board shall be available in an advisory capacity to the Board of Trustees, the Planning Board,
           the Board of Appeals and the Village Engineer for all projects and proposals under consideration by
           these bodies, in order to review those aspects of such projects and proposals which affect the visual
           environment of the village.

     B.    The Planning Board shall make available to the Board all site development plans submitted to it. The
           Board of Trustees shall make available to the Board for its advisory report available information on
           municipal projects. The Planning Board or the Board of Trustees as the case may be, shall establish
           procedures so as to be able to provide the Board with one copy of the plans or relevant portions
           thereof, for all such site developments or municipal projects.

     C.    The Board of Trustees shall also make available to the Board information on other municipal projects
           affecting the visual environment, including but not limited to the demolition or exterior alteration of
           existing municipal buildings and other structures, the clearing or landscaping of land, the layout and
           the appearance of streets and the choice of equipment and apparatus to be used out of doors.

     D.    The Board shall advise the Board of Trustees and Planning Board on proposals for changes in the
           Master Plan, the Zoning Map and the zoning of specific plots of lands and may itself develop and
           propose such changes.

     E.    The Board shall identify and prepare a list describing natural and manmade features and structures
           within the village which enhance the visual environment and whose preservation should be a purpose
           of village policy. Such list shall be filed by the Board with the Board of Trustees and with the
           Planning Board and shall be reviewed at least once every two years.

     F.    The Board may issue reports concerning and recommend programs and legislation to preserve or
           improve the visual environment, including but not limited to the appearance of buildings,
           neighborhoods, commercial areas, vacant land, plazas, playgrounds, streets and thoroughfares, and
           assist in the identification of funding sources and in the securing of funding for such programs.

     G.    The Board may initiate and support educational and informational activities to develop public
           awareness of visual environmental values.

     H.    The Board shall not be required to render an advisory report on all matters referred to it but shall be
           empowered to decide which such matters may, in its discretion, affect the visual environment and are,
           therefore, appropriate for its consideration.

     § 60-4. Powers and responsibilities.

     A.    The Board shall render its advisory report upon referrals which it deems appropriate for its
           consideration as promptly as feasible, but no other village body or board shall be required to withhold
           any official determination or action because the Board has not yet rendered a report. The Board shall
           maintain liaison with the Board of Trustees, the Planning Board, the Board of Appeals and the Village
           Engineer in order to permit coordination in the processing of projects and proposals which may affect
           the visual environment of the village.

     B.    The Chairperson of the Board or any other member delegated by the Board shall have the right to


     § 60-4                           VISUAL ENVIRONMENT ADVISORY BOARD

           present the views of the Board at any public hearing of the Board of Trustees, the Planning Board or
           the Board of Appeals.

     C.    The Board shall report annually to the Board of Trustees on the state of the visual environment of the
           village and make such recommendations as it deems advisable.


                                                 CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE
