---
title: "Chapter 7: Assessments For Improvements"
chapter: 7
name: "Assessments For Improvements"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 7-1.                 Authorization for joint expense
                            of sewer construction; manner
                            of assessment.
     § 7-2.                 State law superseded.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 3-26-1959 by
     L.L. No. 2-1959. Section 7-1 amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions,
     Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                            GENERAL REFERENCES

     Sewers — See Ch. 191.


     § 7-1. Authorization for joint expense of sewer construction; manner of assessment.3

     The Board of Trustees of the village may, by resolution adopted at a regular meeting, determine upon
     the construction of the whole or any part of the sewerage system at the joint expense of the village and
     of the property benefited. The Board of Trustees of the village may also, by resolution adopted at a
     regular meeting, provide for the reimbursement of the owner of lands or permanent easements for lands
     dedicated to the village, together with sewers, water mains, fire hydrants or other such improvements
     situated therein or in village streets, and constructed at private expense for the cost of construction of such
     sewers, water mains, fire hydrants and improvements in such dedicated lands or permanent easements at
     the joint expense of the village and of the property benefited or for a portion of such cost at the expense
     of the property benefited, with the remainder to be borne wholly by the owner of the land or permanent
     easements dedicated or partly by such owner and partly by the village; provided, however, that the rate
     of assessment of the portion assessed to the property benefited shall not exceed the average assessment
     per foot to benefited property of the last three prior sewer construction jobs for which bonds were issued
     by the village and the cost borne partly at the expense of the village and partly at the expense of the
     property benefited. Either such action shall be subject to a permissive referendum if the project is to be
     paid from taxes levied for the year in which the expenditure is to be made. The resolution shall describe the
     portion of the system proposed to be so constructed, shall contain a statement of the estimated maximum
     cost thereof and also of the proportion of the expense to be assessed upon the village at large and the
     aggregate proportion to be assessed upon the property benefited or, in the case of reimbursement for
     sewers acquired by acceptance of dedication of lands or permanent easements for lands, together with
     sewers and water mains therein situated, which have been constructed at private expense, the amount to
     be assessed upon the property benefited as determined by the Board of Trustees, at a rate not exceeding
     that above prescribed. If the resolution is adopted, such aggregate proportion shall be equitably adjusted
     with reference to the benefits to be derived therefrom. In the event that the owner or owners of such
     dedicated lands or easements, sewers, water mains and other improvements shall, pursuant to the condition
     or agreement by which dedication was effected, bear a substantial portion of the cost of construction


     3.   Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of code; Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


     § 7-1                                 ASSESSMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS

     of such sewers, water mains, fire hydrants and other improvements, the portion of such cost borne by
     agreement or pursuant to the terms and conditions of the dedication shall be deemed to be in lieu of an
     assessment hereunder, and the Board of Trustees shall not be required to treat the land retained by such
     owner or owners as benefited property.

     § 7-2. State law superseded.

     This chapter shall change or supersede § 263 of Chapter 64 of the Laws of 1909, entitled "An Act
     relating to Villages, constituting Chapter 64 of the Consolidated Laws," as amended, to the extent that the
     provisions thereof conflict with or are contrary to the provisions of this chapter.


                                                    CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE
