---
title: "Chapter 86: Building Construction"
chapter: 86
name: "Building Construction"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 0
---

ARTICLE I                              § 86-18.       Certificate of occupancy
                 Building Code Administration                                   required.
                                                                 § 86-19.       Inspections; issuance of
     § 86-1.              Definitions.                                          certificates; temporary
     § 86-2.              Engineering Department                                certificates.
                          established.                           § 86-20.       Notification regarding fire or
     § 86-3.              Appointments and                                      explosion.
                          qualifications of Village              § 86-21.       Unsafe buildings.
                          Engineer.                              § 86-21.1.     Operating permits.
     § 86-4.              Assistant Village Engineers;           § 86-21.2.     Fire safety and property
                          Acting Engineer; other                                maintenance inspections.
                          employees.                             § 86-21.3.     Condition assessments of
     § 86-5.              Restrictions on Department                            parking garages.
                          employees.                             § 86-21.4.     Climatic and geographic design
     § 86-6.              Relief from personal liability.                       criteria.
     § 86-7.              Powers and duties of Village           § 86-21.5.     Testing of materials or
                          Engineer.                                             construction.
     § 86-8.              Department records and                 § 86-21.6.     Compliance with building
                          reports; program review and                           standards required;
                          reporting.                                            interpretation.
     § 86-9.              Cooperation of other                   § 86-21.7.     Regulation of vacant lots.
                          departments.                           § 86-21.8.     Violations; penalties for
     § 86-10.             Building permits required;                            offenses.
                          application.
     § 86-11.             Issuance or denial of building                          ARTICLE II
                          permits; display of permit                 Deposits on Construction of New Homes
                          required.
     § 86-12.             Expiration of permits.                 § 86-22.       Definitions.
     § 86-13.             Building permit fees.                  § 86-23.       Security to be furnished by
     § 86-14.             Revocation of permits.                                vendor.
     § 86-15.             Construction inspections.              § 86-24.       Alternative to posting bond.
     § 86-16.             Stop-work orders.                      § 86-25.       Disposition of security.
     § 86-17.             Right of entry.                        § 86-26.       Failure to comply; penalties for
                                                                                offenses; liability.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as indicated in
     article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]


                                                   ARTICLE I
                                          Building Code Administration
                     [Adopted 12-5-1957; amended in its entirety 4-10-2023 by L.L. No. 3-2023]

     § 86-1. Definitions.

     As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     VILLAGE ENGINEER — The Village official designated to head the Engineering Department for the
     Village of Croton-on-Hudson in accordance with § 86-2. The term "Village Engineer" shall include his
     designee authorized to administer the provisions of this chapter.

     § 86-2. Engineering Department established.

     A.    There is hereby established in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson a department to be designated as the
           "Engineering Department" for the administration and enforcement of the provisions of all laws,
           ordinances, rules, regulations and orders applicable to the location, design, materials, construction,
           alteration, repair, equipment, maintenance, use, occupancy, removal and demolition of buildings and
           structures and their appurtenances located in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     B.    The Engineering Department shall be headed by a Village official designated as the "Village
           Engineer."

     § 86-3. Appointments and qualifications of Village Engineer.

     A.    The Village Engineer shall be a person who shall be a graduate of a recognized college or university
           with a bachelor's degree in engineering or architecture and shall have had at least five years'
           experience as an engineer or architect, building inspector, building contractor or supervisor of
           building construction and possess a professional engineer's or architect's license. The Village
           Engineer shall, within the time prescribed by law, obtain such basic training, in-service training,
           advanced in-service training, and other training as the State of New York shall require for code
           enforcement personnel, and the Village Engineer shall obtain certification from the Department of
           State pursuant to the Executive Law and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

     B.    The Village Engineer shall be appointed by the Village Manager at a compensation to be fixed by the
           Board of Trustees.

     § 86-4. Assistant Village Engineers; Acting Engineer; other employees.

     A.    Assistant Village Engineer.

           (1)    The Village Manager may appoint one or more assistants to the Village Engineer, as the need
                  may appear, to exercise, pursuant to the provisions of this Article, any or all of the duties of the
                  Village Engineer as may be delegated to such assistants by the Village Engineer. The
                  compensation of such assistants shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees.

           (2)    Each assistant shall be a person who has had at least three years of practical experience in the
                  design or construction of buildings or in the design, construction or installation of plumbing,
                  heating or electrical equipment or shall have the same qualifications as are required for the
                  office of Village Engineer. Each assistant shall, within the time prescribed by law, obtain such
                  basic training, in-service training, advanced in-service training, and other training as the State
                  of New York shall require for code enforcement personnel, and each inspector shall obtain


                  certification from the Department of State pursuant to the Executive Law and the regulations
                  promulgated thereunder.

     B.    Acting Village Engineer. In the absence of the Village Engineer or in the case of his inability to act
           for any reason, the Manager shall have the power, with the approval of the Board of Trustees, to
           designate a person to act in his behalf and to exercise all of the powers conferred upon him by this
           Article; provided, however, that no such designation shall be made for periods aggregating more than
           60 days during any year, nor shall an Acting Village Engineer be designated for periods aggregating
           more than 60 days when the office of Village Engineer is vacant, unless the person so designated
           shall possess the qualifications prescribed by § 86-3A.

     C.    Fire Inspector. The Fire Inspector for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or his designee may exercise,
           pursuant to the provisions of this article, any or all of the duties of the Village Engineer as may be
           designated to such assistants by the Village Engineer.

     D.    Other employees. The Village Manager may appoint such other employees as may be required from
           time to time by the Village Engineer to carry out the functions of the Engineering Department.

     § 86-5. Restrictions on Department employees.

     No officer or employee of the Engineering Department shall engage in activity inconsistent with his duties
     or with the interests of said office, nor shall be, during the term of his employment, be engaged directly or
     indirectly in any building business, in the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for the construction,
     alteration or maintenance of a building or the preparation of plans or specifications thereof within the
     Village of Croton-on-Hudson, excepting only that this provision shall not prohibit any employee from such
     activities in connection with the construction of a building or structure for his own occupancy owned by
     him.

     § 86-6. Relief from personal liability.

     No official or employee of the Engineering Department shall, while acting within the scope of his duties
     pursuant to the provisions of this article, be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
     property as the result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his official duties, provided that
     such acts are performed in good faith and without gross negligence.

     § 86-7. Powers and duties of Village Engineer.

     A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, ordinance or regulation or except as herein
           otherwise provided, the Village Engineer shall administer and enforce all of the provisions of laws,
           ordinances and regulations applicable to the construction, alteration, repair, removal and demolition
           of buildings and structures and the installation and use of materials and equipment therein and the
           location, use, occupancy and maintenance thereof, pursuant to the provisions of the New York State
           Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code (the "Uniform Code") and State Energy Conservation
           Construction Code (the "Energy Code") and all other applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.

     B.    He shall receive applications and issue permits for the erection, alteration, removal and demolition of
           buildings or structures or parts thereof and shall examine the premises for which such applications
           have been received or such permits have been issued for the purpose of ensuring compliance with
           laws, ordinances and regulations governing building construction, as set forth by the latest amended
           copy of the Energy Code. He shall receive applications for sand bank and other excavations and issue
           permits ensuring compliance with ordinances governing said type of excavations, except as may be


           otherwise specifically provided by law, ordinance or regulation.

     C.    He shall issue all appropriate notices or orders to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to require the
           necessary safeguards during construction and to ensure compliance during the entire course of
           construction with the requirements of such laws, ordinances or regulations. He shall make all
           inspections which are necessary or proper for the carrying out of his duties, except that he may accept
           written reports of inspection from Assistant Village Engineers or other employees of the Engineering
           Department or from generally recognized and authoritative service and inspection bureaus, provided
           that the same are certified by a responsible official thereof.

     D.    Whenever the same may be necessary or appropriate to assure compliance with the provisions of
           applicable laws, ordinances or regulations covering building construction as set forth by the latest
           amended copy of the Energy Code, he may require the performance of tests in the field by
           experienced professional persons or by accredited and authoritative testing laboratories or service
           bureaus or agencies.

     E.    If deemed necessary, he may obtain such engineering assistance as he may require to ensure an
           accurate inspection of building plans and specifications, and the cost for such services shall be borne
           by the applicant.

     F.    The Village Engineer shall review and investigate complaints which allege or assert the existence of
           conditions or activities that fail to comply with the Uniform Code, Energy Code, this article, or any
           other local law, ordinance or regulation adopted for administration and enforcement of the Uniform
           Code or Energy Code. The process for responding to a complaint shall include such of the following
           steps as the Village Engineer may deem to be appropriate:

           (1)    Performing an inspection of the conditions and/or activities alleged to be in violation, and
                  documenting the results of such inspection;

           (2)    If a violation is found to exist, providing the owner of the affected property and any other person
                  who may be responsible for the violation with notice of the violation and opportunity to abate,
                  correct or cure the violation, or otherwise proceeding in the manner described in § 86-21.8 of
                  this article;

           (3)    If appropriate, issuing a stop-work order;

           (4)    If a violation which was found to exist is abated or corrected, performing an inspection to ensure
                  that the violation has been abated or corrected, preparing a final written report reflecting such
                  abatement or correction, and filing such report with the complaint.

     G.    Local energy conservation construction code.

           (1)    Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby
                  adopts, as its local energy conservation construction code, the State Energy Code as modified in
                  the manner contemplated by NYStretch. Such local energy conservation construction code shall
                  consist of the provisions currently set forth in Part 1240 and in the publications currently
                  incorporated by reference in Part 1240; provided, however, that the 2020 ECCCNYS and
                  ASHRAE 90.1-2016 shall be deemed to be modified as follows:

                  (a)    In each case where a section, table, or appendix in the 2018 IECC is modified by
                         NYStretch, the corresponding section, table, or appendix in the 2020 ECCCNYS shall be
                         deemed to be modified in the same manner;


                   (b)    In each case where a section, table, or appendix is added to the 2018 IECC by NYStretch,
                          such section, table, or appendix shall be deemed to be added to the 2020 ECCCNYS
                          subject to the following exception:

                          [1]     Section R403.6.2, which is added to the 2018 IECC by Section 3.11 of NYStretch,
                                  shall not be deemed to be added to the 2020 ECCCNYS;

                   (c)    Each section or table in ASHRAE 90.1-2016 that is modified by NYStretch shall be
                          deemed to be so modified; and

                   (d)    Each section added to ASHRAE 90.1-2016 by NYStretch shall be deemed to be added to
                          ASHRAE 90.1-2016.

            (2)    A copy of NYStretch is annexed hereto and made part hereof. 33

     § 86-8. Department records and reports; program review and reporting.

     A.     The Village Engineer shall keep permanent official records of all transactions and activities of the
            Engineering Department, including all applications received, permits and certificates issued, fees
            charged and collected, inspections reports and notices and orders issued. Where feasible, such records
            shall be permanently bound. Such applications, permits and certificates shall be numbered
            consecutively. All such records shall be public records open to public inspection during business
            hours.

     B.     The Village Engineer shall annually submit to the Board of Trustees a written report and summary of
            all business conducted by the Engineering Department, including permits and certificates issued, fees
            collected, orders and notices promulgated, inspections and tests made and appeals or litigation
            pending.

     C.     The Village Engineer shall make a report to the Board of Trustees once each month, or more often if
            directed by the Board of Trustees, including a statement of permits and certificates issued or refused,
            fees paid and orders promulgated, zoning violations and action taken with respect thereto and such
            other matters as the Board of Trustees may request.

     D.     The Village Engineer shall annually submit to the Secretary of State, on behalf of the Village of
            Croton-on-Hudson, on a form prescribed by the Secretary of State, a report of the activities of the
            Village of Croton-on-Hudson relative to administration and enforcement of the Uniform Code.

     E.     The Village Engineer shall, upon request of the New York State Department of State, provide to the
            New York State Department of State, true and complete copies of the records and related materials
            the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is required to maintain; true and complete copies of such portion of
            such records and related materials as may be requested by the Department of State; and/or such
            excerpts, summaries, tabulations, statistics, and other information and accounts of its activities in
            connection with administration and enforcement of the Uniform Code and/or Energy Code as may be
            requested by the Department of State.

     § 86-9. Cooperation of other departments.

     The Village Engineer may request and shall receive, so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his
     duties, the assistance and cooperation of the Police and Fire Departments and of all other Village officials


     33. Editor's Note: A copy of NYStretch is on file in the Village offices.


     exercising any jurisdiction over the construction, use or occupancy of buildings or the installation of
     equipment therein.

     § 86-10. Building permits required; application.

     A.    No person, firm or corporation shall commence any work which must conform to the Uniform Code
           and/or the Energy Code, including, but not limited to, the erection, construction, enlargement,
           alteration, removal, improvement, demolition, conversion or change in the nature of the occupancy
           of any building or structure or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a separate building
           permit from the Engineering Department for each such building or structure.

     B.    No building permit shall be required for:

           (1)    The performance of ordinary repairs, provided that the work does not have an impact on fire and
                  life safety, such as:

                  (a)    Any part of the structural system;

                  (b)    The required means of egress; or

                  (c)    The fire protection system or the removal from service of any part of the fire protection
                         for any period of time.

           (2)    The construction or installation of one-story detached structures associated with one- or two-
                  family dwellings or multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses), which are used for tool and
                  storage sheds, playhouses, or similar uses, provided the gross floor area does not exceed 20
                  square feet.

     C.    Application for a building permit shall be made to the Village Engineer on forms provided by the
           Engineering Department and shall contain the following information:

           (1)    A description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done, including section, block
                  and lot numbers, if any.

           (2)    A statement of the use or occupancy of all parts of the land and of the building or structure.

           (3)    The valuation of the proposed work.

           (4)    The full name and address of the owner and of the applicant and the names and addresses of
                  their responsible officers if any of them are corporations.

           (5)    A brief description of the nature, location, extent, and scope of the proposed work.

           (6)    A duplicate set of plans and specifications set forth in Subsection E of this section.

           (7)    Where applicable, a statement of special inspections to be prepared in accordance with the
                  provisions of the Uniform Code.

           (8)    Such other information and documentation as may reasonably be required by the Village
                  Engineer to establish compliance of the proposed work with the requirements of applicable
                  building laws, including the Uniform Code and Energy Code, ordinances and regulations.

     D.    Applications shall be made by the owner or lessee or agent of either or by the architect, engineer or
           building contractor employed in connection with the proposed work. Where such application is made
           by a person other than the owner, it shall be accompanied by an affidavit of the owner or applicant


           that the proposed work is authorized by the owner and that the applicant is authorized to make such
           application.

     E.    Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by triplicate three copies of plans and
           specifications, including, but not limited to, the following, where applicable:

           (1)    Describing the location, nature, extent and scope of the proposed work and the materials to be
                  incorporated;

           (2)    Showing that the proposed work will conform to the applicable provisions of the Uniform Code
                  and Energy Code;

           (3)    Showing the location, construction, size, and character of all portions of the means of egress;

           (4)    Showing a representation of the building thermal envelope;

           (5)    Showing structural information, including, but not limited to, braced wall designs; the size,
                  section and relative locations of structural members; design loads; and other pertinent structural
                  information;

           (6)    Showing the proposed structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fire protection, and other
                  service systems of the building;

           (7)    A written statement indicating compliance with the Energy Code;

           (8)    A site plan, drawn to scale and in accordance with an accurate boundary survey, showing the
                  size and location of new construction and existing structures and appurtenances on the site;
                  distances from the lot lines; the established street grades and the proposed finished grades; and,
                  as applicable, flood hazard areas, floodways, and design flood elevations;

           (9)    Evidence that the plans and specifications were prepared by a licensed and registered architect
                  in accordance with Article 147 of the New York State Education Law or a licensed and
                  registered professional engineer in accordance with Article 145 of the New York State
                  Education law and practice guidelines, including, but not limited to, the design professional's
                  seal which clearly and legibly shows both the design professional's name and license number,
                  and is signed by the design professional whose name appears on the seal in such a manner that
                  neither the name nor the number is obscured in any way, the design professional's registration
                  expiration date, the design professional's firm name (if not a sole practitioner), and, if the
                  documents are submitted by a professional engineering firm and not a sole practitioner
                  professional engineer, the firm's certificate of authorization number; and

           (10) All other information and documentation that the Village Engineer may deem necessary to
                allow the Village Engineer to determine that the proposed work conforms to the Uniform Code,
                Energy Code, and all other ordinances and regulations.


           Plans and specifications which are accepted as part of the application for a building permit shall be
           marked as accepted by the Village Engineer in writing or by stamp, or in the case of electronic media,
           an electronic marking. One or more complete sets of approved plans and specifications and other
           submittal documents shall be retained by the Village Engineer. Two complete sets shall be returned
           to the applicant to be available at the work site for use by the Village Engineer. The return of a set
           of approved plans and specifications to the applicant shall not be construed as an authorization to
           commence work, nor as an indication that a building permit will be issued. Work shall not commence
           until and unless a building permit is issued.

     F.    All work shall be performed in accordance with the plans and specifications which were submitted
           with and accepted as part of the application for the building permit. The building permit shall contain
           such a directive. The permit holder shall immediately notify the Village Engineer of any change
           occurring during the course of work. The building permit shall contain such a directive. If the Village
           Engineer determines that such change warrants a new or amended building permit, such change shall
           not be made until and unless a new or amended building permit reflecting such change is issued.

     G.    An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned upon the
           lapse of 90 days after the date of filing unless a permit has been issued before the expiration of that
           period. The Village Engineer may grant, for reasonable cause, one or more extensions of time for
           additional periods not exceeding 90 days each.

     H.    In the case of any parcel of property for which site plan approval would be required for issuance of a
           building permit, no person, firm or corporation shall effect any change in the nature of use of property
           used or occupied by it or extend or change the use thereof or change the access from said parcel of
           property to a street or streets or cause any of the same to be done or continue in effect any such change
           of use or access effected after May 18, 1964, without first obtaining a change of use or access permit
           from the Engineering Department. The fee shall be in an amount set by resolution of the Board of
           Trustees, except that, where site plan approval is independently required in connection with obtaining
           a building permit, no separate change of use or access permit shall be required or fee charged. The
           provisions of this article, and particularly those of §§ 86-10, 86-11, 86-12, 86-14 through 86-19 and
           86-21.3, shall, to the extent applicable, apply to a change of use or access permit as to a building
           permit.

     I.    Payment of taxes and other payments required. No permits, variances, licenses, subdivision or other
           approvals or authorizations shall be issued, no applications therefor shall be considered, and no
           informal preliminary review or other procedure in relation thereto shall be conducted by the Village
           Board, the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Building Inspector or any other board,
           commission or agency of the Village, with respect to any premises within the Village, unless and until
           all amounts due the Village on said premises in real estate taxes, special assessments and any other
           payments, chargeable to the owner or possessor of said premises, together with all penalties and
           interest thereon, shall have been paid in full. The Village Board reserves the right to waive any and
           all of the above conditions as deemed necessary to fit special circumstances.

     § 86-11. Issuance or denial of building permits; display of permit required.

     A.    The Village Engineer shall examine or cause to be examined all applications for permits and the
           plans, specifications and documents filed therewith to ascertain whether the proposed work is in
           compliance with the applicable requirements of the Uniform Code, Energy Code, and all other
           ordinances and regulations. He shall approve or disapprove the application within a reasonable time.

     B.    If the application, together with plans, specifications and other documents filed therewith, describes


           proposed work which does not conform to all of the requirements of the applicable building
           regulations, including the Uniform Code and Energy Code, the Village Engineer shall disapprove the
           same and shall return the plans and specifications to the applicant. Upon the request of the applicant,
           the Village Engineer shall cause such refusal, together with the reasons therefor, to be transmitted to
           the applicant in writing.

     C.    Building permits shall be visibly displayed at the work site and shall remain visible until the
           authorized work has been completed.

     § 86-12. Expiration of permits.

     A.    A building permit shall be effective to authorize the commencing of work in accordance with the
           application, plans and specifications on which it is based for a period of six months after the date of
           its issuance. For good cause shown, and provided that there shall have been no material change in
           applicable laws, ordinances or regulations or in conditions immediately affecting the vicinity in which
           the property to which the permit relates is located, the Village Engineer may allow one extension of
           time for an additional period of three months. The three-month permit extension shall require a fee in
           an amount determined by a fee schedule established by resolution of the Board of Trustees.

     B.    All permits issued under this article shall be void and of no effect after six months from the date of
           issue thereof (or nine months from the date of issue thereof if the permit has been extended), unless
           the work for which the permit was issued has been actually commenced and not been abandoned
           during that period. If any permit becomes void as herein provided, 1/2 of the fee paid for such permit,
           not including any special fee covering examination of plans of a structure of complex design, may be
           refunded to the person who obtained the permit, provided that no work has been commenced and an
           application for refund is made within the six- or nine-month period, but in no case shall refunds be
           made on fees based on a construction of less than $1,000; and provided, further, that, notwithstanding
           any other provision hereof, all permits shall expire two years from the date of issuance unless the
           proposed work has been completed and a certificate of occupancy has been issued or unless such
           permit is extended by the Village Engineer in accordance with Subsection A above.

     C.    The issuance of a building permit shall constitute authority to the applicant to proceed with the work
           in accordance with the approved plans and specifications and in accordance with the applicable
           building laws, ordinances or regulations. All work shall conform to the approved application, plans
           and specifications, except that no building permit shall be valid insofar as it authorized the
           performance of work or the use of materials which are not in accordance with the requirements of the
           applicable building regulations and Village ordinances.

     D.    Buildings or structures subject to the provisions of this article hereafter erected without a permit shall
           be removed at the expense of the owner, if so ordered by the Board of Trustees.

     § 86-13. Building permit fees.

     A.    Upon the filing of an application for a building permit, the applicant shall pay a fee therefor in an
           amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees, based on the total valuation of the proposed work.

     B.    The term "valuation" shall mean the reasonable value, as determined by the Village Engineer, of all
           services, labor, materials and use of equipment, scaffolding and other appliances entering into and
           necessary for the prosecution of the work; except that the cost of grading, landscaping and decorating
           or other work intended only for embellishment shall not be deemed part of the cost.

     C.    In the event that an application for a building permit is not approved, the applicant shall be entitled to


           a refund of 50% of the fee paid, provided that no construction has been commenced. If construction
           work has been started and the application is not approved, the fees paid shall not be refunded.

     § 86-14. Revocation of permits.

     A.    If the Village Engineer determines that a building permit was issued in error because of incorrect,
           inaccurate or incomplete information, or that the work for which a building permit was issued violates
           the Uniform Code or Energy Code, or any other ordinance or regulation, the Village Engineer shall
           revoke the building permit or suspend the building permit until such time as the permit holder
           demonstrates that all work completed and all work proposed shall be in compliance with applicable
           provisions of the Uniform Code, Energy Code, and all other ordinances and regulations.

     B.    The Village Engineer may revoke a building permit therefore issued and approved where the permit
           holder fails or refuses to comply with a stop order issued by the Village Engineer.

     § 86-15. Construction inspections.

     A.    Work shall remain accessible and exposed until inspected and accepted by the Village Engineer. The
           permit holder shall notify the Village Engineer when any element of work described in Subsection B
           of this section is ready for inspection.

     B.    The following elements of the construction process shall be inspected, where applicable.

           (1)    Work site prior to the issuance of a building permit;

           (2)    Inspection of soil-bearing conditions for suitable bearing and checking proposed structure for
                  front and side yard requirements as per applicable zoning regulations;

           (3)    Footing and foundation;

           (4)    Preparation for concrete slab;

           (5)    Framing, before inside finish is completed;

           (6)    Structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fire protection and other similar service systems of
                  the building;

           (7)    Fire-resistant construction;

           (8)    Fire-resistant penetrations;

           (9)    Solid fuel-burning heating appliances, chimneys, flues, or gas vents;

           (10) Inspections required to demonstrate Energy Code compliance, including, but not limited to,
                insulation, fenestration, air leakage, system controls, mechanical equipment size, and, where
                required, minimum fan efficiencies, programmable thermostats, energy recovery, whole-house
                ventilation, plumbing heat traps, and high-performance lighting and controls;

           (11) Installation, connection, and assembly of factor manufactured buildings and manufactured
                homes; and

           (12) A final inspection after all work authorized by the building permit has been completed.

     C.    At the discretion of the Village Engineer authorized to perform construction inspections, a remote


           inspection may be performed in lieu of an in-person inspection when, in the opinion of the Village
           Engineer, the remote inspection can be performed to the same level and quality as an in-person
           inspection and the remote inspection shows to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer or by such
           authorized inspector that the elements of the construction process conform with the applicable
           requirements of the Uniform Code and Energy Code. Should a remote inspection not afford the
           Village Engineer sufficient information to make a determination, an in-person inspection shall be
           performed.

     D.    After inspection, the work or a portion thereof shall be noted as satisfactory as completed, or the
           permit holder shall be notified as to the manner in which the work fails to comply with the Uniform
           Code, Energy Code, or any other regulation or ordinance, including a citation to the specific code
           provision or provisions that have not been met. Work not in compliance with any applicable provision
           of the Uniform Code, Energy Code, or any other regulation or ordinance shall remain exposed until
           such work shall have been brought into compliance with applicable portions of the Uniform Code,
           Energy Code, or any other regulation or ordinance, reinspected, and found satisfactory as completed.

     § 86-16. Stop-work orders.

     Whenever the Village Engineer has reasonable grounds to believe that work on any building or structure
     is being prosecuted in violation of the provisions of the Uniform Code, Energy Code, and applicable
     building laws, ordinances or regulations or not in conformity with the provisions of an application, plans or
     specifications on the basis of which a building permit was issued or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, he
     shall notify the owner of the property or the owner's agent or the person performing the work to suspend all
     work, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work and suspend all building activities until the stop
     order has been rescinded. Such order and notice shall be in writing, shall state the conditions under which
     the work may be resumed and may be served upon a person to whom it is directed either by delivering it
     personally to him or by posting the same upon a conspicuous portion of the building under construction
     and sending a copy of the same to such person by registered or certified mail at the address listed on the
     application.

     § 86-17. Right of entry.

     A.    The Village Engineer, in the discharge of his duties, shall have the authority to enter any building or
           structure or premises at any reasonable hour with the consent of the person in possession or
           occupancy.

     B.    If admission is refused or cannot by obtained from the person, in possession or occupancy, the Village
           Engineer shall be authorized to obtain a warrant to make an inspection, provided probable cause is
           shown.

     C.    In case of an emergency, the Village Engineer may, without a warrant, enter any premises, or parts of
           premises, to inspect the same, at any time, without the permission of the person in possession or
           occupancy.

     § 86-18. Certificate of occupancy required.

     A.    No building hereafter erected shall be used or occupied in whole or in part until a certificate of
           occupancy shall have been issued by the Village Engineer.

     B.    No building hereafter enlarged, extended or altered or upon which work has been performed which
           required the issuance of a building permit shall continue to be occupied or used for more than 30 days


           after the completion of the alteration or work unless a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
           by the Village Engineer.

     C.    No change shall be made in the use or type of occupancy of an existing building unless a certificate
           of occupancy shall have been issued by the Village Engineer.

     § 86-19. Inspections; issuance of certificates; temporary certificates.

     A.    Inspection prior to issuance.

           (1)    Before issuing a certificate of occupancy, the Village Engineer shall examine or cause to be
                  examined all buildings, structures and sites for which an application has been filed for a building
                  permit to construct, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, demolish or change the use or occupancy, and
                  he may conduct such inspections as he deems appropriate from time to time during and upon
                  completion of the work for which a building permit has been issued.

           (2)    Where applicable, the following documents prepared in accordance with the provisions of the
                  Uniform Code by such person or persons as may be designated by or otherwise acceptable to
                  the Village Engineer, at the expense of the applicant for the certificate of occupancy, shall be
                  provided to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy:

                  (a)    A written statement of structural observations and/or a final report of special inspections;

                  (b)    Flood hazard certifications;

                  (c)    A written statement of the results of tests performed to show compliance with the Energy
                         Code; and

                  (d)    Where applicable, the affixation of the appropriate seals, insignias, and manufacturer's
                         data plates as required for factory manufactured buildings and/or manufactured homes.

           (3)    There shall be maintained in the Engineering Department a record of all such examinations and
                  inspections, together with a record of findings of violations of the law.

     B.    Issuance of certificate of occupancy.

           (1)    When, after final inspection, it is found that the proposed work has been completed in
                  accordance with the Uniform Code, Energy Code, and all other applicable buildings laws,
                  ordinances and regulations and also in accordance with the application, plans and specifications
                  filed in connection with the issuance of the building permit, the Village Engineer shall issue a
                  certificate of occupancy upon the form provided by him. If it is found that the proposed work
                  has not been properly completed, the Village Engineer shall refuse to issue a certificate of
                  occupancy and shall order the work completed in conformity with the building permit and in
                  conformity with the applicable building regulations as set forth by the Uniform Code and
                  Energy Code.

           (2)    The certificate of occupancy shall certify that the work has been completed and that the
                  proposed use and occupancy is in conformity with the provisions of the applicable building
                  laws, ordinances and regulations and contain the following information:

                  (a)    The building permit number, if any;

                  (b)    The date of issuance of the building permit, if any;


                  (c)    The name (if any), address and Tax Map number of the property;

                  (d)    If the certificate of occupancy is not applicable to an entire structure, a description of that
                         portion of the structure for which the certificate of occupancy is issued;

                  (e)    The use and occupancy classification of the structure;

                  (f)    The type of construction of the structure;

                  (g)    The occupant load of the assembly areas of the structure, if any;

                  (h)    Any special conditions imposed in connection with the issuance of the building permit;
                         and

                  (i)    The signature of the Village Engineer issuing the certificate of occupancy and the date of
                         issuance.

           (3)    Any change in the nature of use of any parcel of property or extension or change in the present
                  area of use or change in the access from the parcel of property to a street or streets for which a
                  change of use or access permit is required under § 86-10H above or the continuance of any such
                  change of use or access effected after May 18, 1964, shall require a new certificate of
                  occupancy, which shall be granted only if the conditions of the foregoing Subsection A(1) and
                  (2) are met, including the obtaining of the use or access permit in question.

           (4)    A fee in the amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees shall be paid at the time of
                  applying for each certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of occupancy.

     C.    Temporary certificate of occupancy. Upon request, the Village Engineer may issue a temporary
           certificate of occupancy for a building or structure or part thereof before the entire work covered by
           the building permit shall have been completed, provided that 1) such portion or portions as have been
           completed may be occupied safely without endangering life or the public welfare; 2) that any required
           fire and life safety components, such as fire protection equipment and fire, smoke, carbon monoxide,
           and heat detectors and alarms are installed and operational; and 3) that all required means of egress
           from the structure have been provided. The Village Engineer may include in a temporary certificate
           of occupancy such terms and conditions as he or she deems necessary or appropriate to ensure the
           health and safety of the persons occupying and using the building or structure and/or performing
           further construction work in the building or structure. The temporary certificate of occupancy shall
           contain all information as prescribed in Subsection B(2) of this section. A temporary certificate of
           occupancy shall be effective for a period of time, not to exceed six months, which shall be determined
           by the Village Engineer and specified in the temporary certificate of occupancy. During the specified
           period of effectiveness of the temporary certificate of occupancy, the permit holder shall undertake to
           bring the building or structure into full compliance with all applicable provisions of the Uniform
           Code, Energy Code, and all other applicable building laws, regulations and ordinances.

     D.    If the Village Engineer determines that a certificate of occupancy or a temporary certificate of
           occupancy was issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information, and if the relevant deficiencies
           are not corrected to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer within such period of time as shall be
           specified by the Village Engineer, the Village Engineer shall revoke or suspend such certificate.

     § 86-20. Notification regarding fire or explosion.

     The Chief of the Fire Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or his designee shall promptly notify
     the Village Engineer of any fire or explosion involving any structural damage, fuel burning appliance,


     § 86-20                                     BUILDING CONSTRUCTION                                    § 86-21.1

     chimney, or gas vent.

     § 86-21. Unsafe buildings.

     Unsafe buildings, structures and equipment and conditions of imminent danger in the Village of Croton-
     on-Hudson shall be identified and addressed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 90 of the Village
     Code, as now in effect or as hereafter amended from time to time.

     § 86-21.1. Operating permits.

     A.    Operating permits shall be required for conducting any process or activity or for operating any type
           of building, structure, or facility listed below:

           (1)    Manufacturing, storing, or handling hazardous materials in quantities exceeding those listed in
                  the applicable maximum allowable quantity tables found in Chapter 50 of the FCNYS;

           (2)    Buildings, structures, facilities, processes, and/or activities that are within the scope and/or
                  permit requirements of the chapter or section title of the FCNYS as follows:

                  (a)    Chapter 22, "Combustible Dust-Producing Operations." Facilities where the operation
                         produces combustible dust;

                  (b)    Chapter 24, "Flammable Finishes." Operations utilizing flammable or combustible liquids,
                         or the application of combustible powders regulated by Chapter 24 of the FCNYS;

                  (c)    Chapter 25, "Fruit and Crop Ripening." Operating a fruit- or crop-ripening facility or
                         conducting a fruit-ripening process using ethylene gas;

                  (d)    Chapter 26, "Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging." Conducting fumigation or insecticidal
                         fogging operations in buildings, structures, and spaces, except for fumigation or
                         insecticidal fogging performed by the occupant of a detached one-family dwelling;

                  (e)    Chapter 31, "Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures, and Other Membrane
                         Structures." Operating an air-supported temporary membrane structure, a temporary
                         special event structure, or a tent where approval is required pursuant to Chapter 31 of the
                         FCNYS;

                  (f)    Chapter 32, "High-Piled Combustible Storage." High-piled combustible storage facilities
                         with more than 500 square feet (including aisles) of high-piled storage;

                  (g)    Chapter 34, "Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage." Operating a facility that stores in excess
                         of 2,500 cubic feet of scrap tires or tire byproducts or operating a tire rebuilding plant;

                  (h)    Chapter 35, "Welding and Other Hot Work." Performing public exhibitions and
                         demonstrations where hot work is conducted, use of hot work, welding, or cutting
                         equipment, inside or on a structure, except an operating permit is not required where work
                         is conducted under the authorization of a building permit or where performed by the
                         occupant of a detached one- or two-family dwelling;

                  (i)    Chapter 40, "Sugarhouse Alternative Activity Provisions." Conducting an alternative
                         activity at a sugarhouse;

                  (j)    Chapter 56, "Explosives and Fireworks." Possessing, manufacturing, storing, handling,
                         selling, or using, explosives, fireworks, or other pyrotechnic special effects materials


     § 86-21.1                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                   § 86-21.1

                         except the outdoor use of sparkling devices as defined by Penal Law § 270;

                  (k)    Section 307, "Open Burning, Recreational Fires and Portable Outdoor Fireplaces."
                         Conducting open burning, not including recreational fires and portable outdoor fireplaces;

                  (l)    Section 308, "Open Flames." Removing paint with a torch, or using open flames, fire, and
                         burning in connection with assembly areas or educational occupancies; and

                  (m) Section 319, "Mobile Food Preparation Vehicles." Operating a mobile food preparation
                      vehicle.

           (3)    Energy storage systems, where the system exceeds the values shown in Table 1206.1 of the
                  FCNYS or exceeds the permitted aggregate ratings in Section R327.5 of the RCNYS;

           (4)    Buildings containing one or more assembly areas;

           (5)    Outdoor events where the planned attendance exceeds 1,000 persons;

           (6)    Facilities that store, handle or use hazardous production materials;

           (7)    Parking garages as defined in § 86-21.3 of this article;

           (8)    Buildings whose use or occupancy classification may pose a substantial potential hazard to
                  public safety, as determined by resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
                  Croton-on-Hudson;

           (9)    Other processes or activities or for operating any type of building, structure or facility as
                  determined by resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

     B.    An application for an operating permit shall be in writing on a form provided by or otherwise
           acceptable to the Village Engineer and include any fee established by the Village Board of Trustees.
           Such application shall include such information as Village Engineer deems sufficient to permit a
           determination by the Village Engineer that quantities, materials, and activities conform to the
           requirements of the Uniform Code. If the Village Engineer determines that tests or reports are
           necessary to verify conformance, such tests or reports shall be performed or provided by such person
           or persons as may be designated by or otherwise acceptable to the Village Engineer, at the expense
           of the applicant.

     C.    Operating permits shall not be required for processes or activities, or the buildings, structures, or
           facilities listed in Subsection A(1) through (7) of this section, provided that the use is expressly
           authorized by a certificate of occupancy, fire safety and property maintenance inspections are
           performed in accordance with § 86-21.2 of this article, and condition assessments are performed in
           compliance with § 86-21.3 of this article, as applicable.

     D.    The Village Engineer shall inspect the subject premises prior to the issuance of an operating permit.
           Such inspections shall be performed either in-person or remotely. Remote inspections in lieu of in-
           person inspections may be performed when, at the discretion of the Village Engineer, the remote
           inspection can be performed to the same level and quality as an in-person inspection and the remote
           inspection shows to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer that the premises conform with the
           applicable requirements of the Uniform Code and the code enforcement program. Should a remote
           inspection not afford the Village of Croton-on-Hudson sufficient information to make a
           determination, an in-person inspection shall be performed. After inspection, the premises shall be
           noted as satisfactory and the operating permit shall be issued, or the operating permit holder shall be


     § 86-21.1                                   BUILDING CONSTRUCTION                                     § 86-21.2

           notified as to the manner in which the premises fail to comply with either or both of the Uniform
           Code and the code enforcement program, including a citation to the specific provision or provisions
           that have not been met.

     E.    In any circumstance in which more than one activity listed in Subsection A of this section is to be
           conducted at a location, the Village Engineer may require a separate operating permit for each such
           activity, or the Village Engineer may, in their discretion, issue a single operating permit to apply to
           all such activities.

     F.    Operating permits shall be issued for a specified period of time consistent with local conditions, but
           in no event to exceed as follows:

           (1)    One hundred eighty days for tents, special event structures, and other membrane structures;

           (2)    Sixty days for alternative activities at a sugarhouse;

           (3)    Three years for the activities, structures, and operations determined per Subsection A(9) of this
                  section unless sooner designated by resolution of the Board of Trustees; and

           (4)    One year for all other activities, structures, and operations identified in Subsection A of this
                  section.

           The effective period of each operating permit shall be specified in the operating permit. An operating
           permit may be reissued or renewed upon application to the Village Engineer, payment of the
           applicable fee, and approval of such application by the Village Engineer.

     G.    If the Village Engineer determines that any activity or building for which an operating permit was
           issued does not comply with any applicable provision of the Uniform Code, such operating permit
           shall be revoked or suspended.

     § 86-21.2. Fire safety and property maintenance inspections.

     A.    Fire safety and property maintenance inspections of buildings and structures shall be performed by
           the Village Engineer, the Fire Inspector in accordance with Chapter 125, or their designee(s) at the
           following intervals:

           (1)    At least once every 12 months for buildings which contain an assembly area;

           (2)    At least once every 12 months for public and private schools and colleges, including any
                  buildings of such schools or colleges containing classrooms, dormitories, fraternities, sororities,
                  laboratories, physical education, dining, or recreational facilities; and

           (3)    At least once every 24 months for multiple dwellings; and

           (4)    At least once every 36 months for all other nonresidential occupancies.

           Following the inspection, the Village Engineer, Chief, or their designee shall note the inspected
           premises as satisfactory or the owner and operator of the premises shall be notified as to the manner
           in which the premises fails to comply with the Uniform Code, including a citation to the specific
           Uniform Code provision or provisions that have not been met.

     B.    At the discretion of the Village Engineer, the Chief, or their designee(s) authorized to perform fire
           safety and property maintenance inspections, a remote inspection may be performed in lieu of in-


     § 86-21.2                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                     § 86-21.3

           person inspections when, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, the Chief, or their designee(s), the
           remote inspection can be performed to the same level and quality as an in-person inspection and the
           remote inspection shows to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer, the Chief, or their designee(s) that
           the premises conform with the applicable provisions of 19 NYCRR Part 1225 and the publications
           incorporated therein by reference and the applicable provisions of 19 NYCRR Part 1226 and the
           publications incorporated therein by reference. Should a remote inspection not afford the Village
           Engineer, the Chief, or their designee(s) sufficient information to make a determination, an in-person
           inspection shall be performed.

     C.    In addition to the inspections required by Subsection A of this section, a fire safety and property
           maintenance inspection of any building, structure, use, or occupancy, or of any dwelling unit, may
           also be performed by the Village Engineer, the Chief, or their designee(s) to perform fire safety and
           property maintenance inspections at any time upon:

           (1)    The request of the owner of the property to be inspected or an authorized agent of such owner;

           (2)    Receipt by the Village Engineer of a written statement alleging that conditions or activities
                  failing to comply with the Uniform Code or Energy Code exist; or

           (3)    Receipt by the Village Engineer of any other information, reasonably believed by the Village
                  Engineer to be reliable, giving rise to reasonable cause to believe that conditions or activities
                  failing to comply with the Uniform Code or Energy Code exist; provided, however, that nothing
                  in this subsection shall be construed as permitting an inspection under any circumstances under
                  which a court order or warrant permitting such inspection is required, unless such court order or
                  warrant shall have been obtained.

     D.    OFPC inspections.

           (1)    Nothing in this section or in any other provision of this article shall supersede, limit, or impair
                  the powers, duties and responsibilities of the New York State Office of Fire Prevention and
                  Control ("OFPC") and the New York State Fire Administrator or other authorized entity under
                  Executive Law § 156-e and Education Law § 807-b.

           (2)    Notwithstanding any other provision of this section to the contrary, the Village Engineer may
                  accept an inspection performed by the Office of Fire Prevention and Control or other authorized
                  entity pursuant to §§ 807-a and 807-b of the Education Law and/or § 156-e of the Executive
                  Law, in lieu of a fire safety and property maintenance inspection performed by the Village
                  Engineer or by an inspector, provided that:

                  (a)    The Village Engineer is satisfied that the individual performing such inspection satisfies
                         the requirements set forth in 19 NYCRR section1203.2(e);

                  (b)    The Village Engineer is satisfied that such inspection covers all elements required to be
                         covered by a fire safety and property maintenance inspection;

                  (c)    Such inspections are performed no less frequently than once a year;

                  (d)    A true and complete copy of the report of each such inspection is provided to the Village
                         Engineer; and

                  (e)    Upon receipt of each such report, the Village Engineer takes the appropriate action
                         prescribed by § 86-21.8 of this article.


     § 86-21.3                                   BUILDING CONSTRUCTION                                   § 86-21.3

     § 86-21.3. Condition assessments of parking garages.

     A.    Definitions. For the purposes of this section:
           CONDITION ASSESSMENT — An on-site inspection and evaluation of a parking garage for
           evidence of deterioration of any structural element or building component of such parking garage,
           evidence of the existence of any unsafe condition in such parking garage, and evidence indicating that
           such parking garage is an unsafe structure.
           DETERIORATION — The weakening, disintegration, corrosion, rust, or decay of any structural
           element or building component, or any other loss of effectiveness of a structural element or building
           component.
           PARKING GARAGE — Any building or structure, or part thereof, in which all or any part of any
           structural level or levels is used for parking or storage of motor vehicles, excluding:

           (1)    Buildings in which the only level used for parking or storage of motor vehicles is on grade;

           (2)    An attached or accessory structure providing parking exclusively for a detached one- or two-
                  family dwelling; and

           (3)    A townhouse unit with attached parking exclusively for such unit.
           PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER — An individual who is licensed or otherwise authorized under
           Article 145 of the Education Law to practice the profession of engineering in the State of New York
           and who has at least three years of experience performing structural evaluations.
           RESPONSIBLE PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER — The professional engineer who performs a
           condition assessment, or under whose supervision a condition assessment is performed, and who seals
           and signs the condition assessment report. The use of the term "responsible professional engineer"
           shall not be construed as limiting the professional responsibility or liability of any professional
           engineer, or of any other licensed professional, who participates in the preparation of a condition
           assessment without being the responsible professional engineer for such condition assessment.
           UNSAFE CONDITION — Includes the conditions identified as "unsafe" in §§ 304.1.1, 305.1.1, and
           306.1.1 of the PMCNYS.
           UNSAFE STRUCTURE — A structure that is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, or structurally
           unsafe, or is of such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse is
           possible.

     B.    The owner operator of each parking garage shall cause such parking garage to undergo an initial
           condition assessment as described in Subsection C of this section, periodic condition assessments as
           described in Subsection D of this section, and such additional condition assessments as may be
           required under Subsection E of this section. Each condition assessment shall be conducted by or
           under the direct supervision of a professional engineer. A written report of each condition assessment
           shall be prepared, and provided to Village Engineer, in accordance with the requirements of
           Subsection F of this section. Before performing a condition assessment (other than the initial
           condition assessment) of a parking garage, the responsible professional engineer for such condition
           assessment shall review all available previous condition assessment reports for such parking garage.

     C.    Each parking garage shall undergo an initial condition assessment as follows:

           (1)    Parking garages constructed in whole or in part prior to the effective date of this article shall
                  undergo an initial condition assessment following construction and prior to a certificate of


     § 86-21.3                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                      § 86-21.3

                  occupancy or certificate of compliance being issued for the structure.

           (2)    Any parking garage constructed prior to the effective date of the local law enacting this
                  provision that has not undergone an initial condition assessment prior to that effective date shall
                  undergo an initial condition assessment prior to six months after the effective date of this article.

     D.    Following the initial condition assessment of a parking garage, such parking garage shall undergo
           periodic condition assessments at intervals not to exceed three years.

     E.    Additional condition assessments.

           (1)    If the latest condition assessment report for a parking garage includes a recommendation by the
                  responsible professional engineer that an additional condition assessment of such parking
                  garage, or any portion of such parking garage, be performed before the date by which the next
                  periodic condition assessment would be required under Subsection C of this section, the owner
                  or operator of such parking garage shall cause such parking garage (or, if applicable, the portion
                  of such parking garage identified by the responsible professional engineer) to undergo an
                  additional condition assessment no later than the date recommended in such condition
                  assessment report.

           (2)    If the Village of Croton-on-Hudson becomes aware of any new or increased deterioration which,
                  in the judgment of the Village Engineer, indicates that an additional condition assessment of the
                  entire parking garage, or of the portion of the parking garage affected by such new or increased
                  deterioration, should be performed before the date by which the next periodic condition
                  assessment would be required under Subsection C of this section, the owner or operator of such
                  parking garage shall cause such parking garage (or, if applicable, the portion of the parking
                  garage affected by such new or increased deterioration) to undergo an additional condition
                  assessment no later than the date determined by the Village Engineer to be appropriate.

     F.    Condition assessment reports. The responsible professional engineer shall prepare, or directly
           supervise the preparation of, a written report of each condition assessment, and shall submit such
           condition assessment report to the Village Engineer within 30 days. Such condition assessment report
           shall be sealed and signed by the responsible professional engineer, and shall include:

           (1)    An evaluation and description of the extent of deterioration and conditions that cause
                  deterioration that could result in an unsafe condition or unsafe structure;

           (2)    An evaluation and description of the extent of deterioration and conditions that cause
                  deterioration that, in the opinion of the responsible professional engineer, should be remedied
                  immediately to prevent an unsafe condition or unsafe structure;

           (3)    An evaluation and description of the unsafe conditions;

           (4)    An evaluation and description of the problems associated with the deterioration, conditions that
                  cause deterioration, and unsafe conditions;

           (5)    An evaluation and description of the corrective options available, including the recommended
                  time frame for remedying the deterioration, conditions that cause deterioration, and unsafe
                  conditions;

           (6)    An evaluation and description of the risks associated with not addressing the deterioration,
                  conditions that cause deterioration, and unsafe conditions;


     § 86-21.3                                   BUILDING CONSTRUCTION                                      § 86-21.4

           (7)    The responsible professional engineer's recommendation regarding preventative maintenance;

           (8)    Except in the case of the report of the initial condition assessment, the responsible professional
                  engineer's attestation that he or she reviewed all previously prepared condition assessment
                  reports available for such parking garage, and considered the information in the previously
                  prepared reports while performing the current condition assessment and while preparing the
                  current report; and

           (9)    The responsible professional engineer's recommendation regarding the time within which the
                  next condition assessment of the parking garage or portion thereof should be performed. In
                  making the recommendation regarding the time within which the next condition assessment of
                  the parking garage or portion thereof should be performed, the responsible professional engineer
                  shall consider the parking garage's age, maintenance history, structural condition, construction
                  materials, frequency and intensity of use, location, exposure to the elements, and any other
                  factors deemed relevant by the responsible professional engineer in their professional judgment.

     G.    The Village Engineer shall take such enforcement action or actions in response to the information in
           such condition assessment report as may be necessary or appropriate to protect the public from the
           hazards that may result from the conditions described in such report. In particular, but not by way of
           limitation, the Village Engineer shall, by order to remedy or such other means of enforcement as the
           Village Engineer may deem appropriate, require the owner or operator of the parking garage to repair
           or otherwise remedy all deterioration, all conditions that cause deterioration, and all unsafe conditions
           identified in such condition assessment report pursuant to Subsection F(2) and (3). All repairs and
           remedies shall comply with the applicable provisions of the Uniform Code. This section shall not
           limit or impair the right of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to take any other enforcement action,
           including, but not limited to, suspension or revocation of a parking garage's operating permit, as may
           be necessary or appropriate in response to the information in a condition assessment report.

     H.    The Village Engineer shall retain all condition assessment reports for the life of the parking garage.
           Upon request by a professional engineer who has been engaged to perform a condition assessment of
           a parking garage, and who provides the Village Engineer with a written statement attesting to the fact
           that he or she has been so engaged, the Village Engineer shall make the previously prepared condition
           assessment reports for such parking garage (or copies of such reports) available to such professional
           engineer. The Village Engineer shall be permitted to require the owner or operator of the subject
           parking garage to pay all costs and expenses associated with making such previously prepared
           condition assessment reports (or copies thereof) available to the professional engineer.

     I.    This section shall not limit or impair the right or the obligation of the Village Engineer to:

           (1)    To perform such construction inspections as are required by § 86-15 of this article;

           (2)    To perform such periodic fire safety and property maintenance inspections as are required by
                  § 86-21.2 of this article; and/or

           (3)    To take such enforcement action or actions as may be necessary or appropriate to respond to
                  any condition that comes to the attention of the Village Engineer by means of its own
                  inspections or observations, by means of a complaint, or by any other means other than a
                  condition assessment or a report of a condition assessment.

     § 86-21.4. Climatic and geographic design criteria.

     A.    The Village Engineer shall determine the climatic and geographic design criteria for buildings and


     § 86-21.4                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                     § 86-21.7

           structures constructed within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as required by the Uniform Code.
           Such determinations shall be made in the manner specified in the Uniform Code using, where
           applicable, the maps, charts, and other information provided in the Uniform Code. The criteria to be
           so determined shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the following:

           (1)    Design criteria to include ground snow load; wind design loads; seismic category; potential
                  damage from weathering, frost, and termite; winter design temperature; whether ice barrier
                  underlayment is required; the air freezing index; and the mean annual temperature;

           (2)    Heating and cooling equipment design criteria for structures within the scope of the RCNYS.
                  The design criteria shall include the data identified in the Design Criteria Table found in Chapter
                  3 of the RCNYS; and

           (3)    Flood hazard areas, flood hazard maps, and supporting data. The flood hazard map shall include,
                  at a minimum, special flood hazard areas as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
                  Agency in the Flood Insurance Study for the community, as amended or revised with:

                  (a)    The accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM);

                  (b)    Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM); and

                  (c)    Related supporting data along with any revisions thereto.

     B.    The Village Engineer shall prepare a written record of the climatic and geographic design criteria
           determined pursuant to Subsection A of this section, shall maintain such record within the office of
           the Village Engineer, and shall make such record readily available to the public.

     § 86-21.5. Testing of materials or construction.

     Whenever there are reasonable grounds to believe that any material, construction, equipment or assembly
     does not conform to the requirements of the applicable building laws, ordinances or regulations, the Village
     Engineer may require the same to be subjected to tests paid for by the applicant in order to furnish proof of
     such compliance.

     § 86-21.6. Compliance with building standards required; interpretation.

     No dereliction of duty or errors on the part of the Village Engineer shall legalize the erection, construction
     or alteration of any building not in conformity with the Uniform Code, Energy Code and other applicable
     ordinances and regulations. The building permit shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel or
     set aside any of the provisions of the Uniform Code, Energy Code, this article or of any other statute or
     ordinance pertinent thereto.

     § 86-21.7. Regulation of vacant lots.

     When a building has been demolished and no building operation has been projected or approved or in the
     event of substantial interruption of work on a building or structure prior to the issuance of a certificate
     of occupancy as the result of a stop-work order, the revocation or expiration of a building permit or for
     any other cause, the premises shall be maintained free from the accumulation of rubbish or water and all
     other unsafe or hazardous conditions which endanger the life or health of the public. The premises shall
     be safeguarded in the manner ordered by the Village Engineer, including, among other requirements, the
     taking down of walls or the covering of areas between walls. If the owner of the property fails to comply
     with the order, the Village Engineer may employ such labor and materials and other services as may be


     § 86-21.7                                   BUILDING CONSTRUCTION                                    § 86-21.8

     necessary to perform the required work. All costs and expenses so incurred by the Village shall be paid by
     the owner or may be assessed against the land.

     § 86-21.8. Violations; penalties for offenses.

     A.    It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct, alter, repair, move, remove,
           demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure or portion thereof in violation of
           any provision of this article or to fail in any manner to comply with a notice, directive or order of the
           Village Engineer or to construct, alter or use and occupy any building or structure or part thereof in a
           manner not permitted by an approved building permit or certificate of occupancy.

     B.    The Village Engineer is authorized to order, in writing, the remedying of any condition or activity
           found to exist in, on or about any building, structure, or premises in violation of the Uniform Code,
           the Energy Code, or this article. An order to remedy shall be in writing; shall be dated and signed by
           the Village Engineer; shall specify the condition or activity that violates the Uniform Code, the
           Energy Code, or this article; shall specify the provision or provisions of the Uniform Code, the
           Energy Code, or this article which is/are violated by the specified condition or activity; shall direct
           the discontinuance of the illegal action or condition; and shall include a statement substantially
           similar to the following:

           "The person or entity served with this order to remedy must completely remedy each violation
           described in this order to remedy by _____ [specify date], which is 30 days after the date of this order
           to remedy."

           The order to remedy may include provisions ordering the person or entity served with such order
           to remedy: 1) to begin to remedy the violations described in the order to remedy immediately, or
           within some other specified period of time which may be less than 30 days; to continue diligently
           to remedy such violations until each such violation is fully remedied; and, in any event, to complete
           the remedying of all such violations within 30 days of the date of such order to remedy; and/or 2)
           to take such other protective actions (such as vacating the building or barricading the area where the
           violations exist) which are authorized by this article or by any other applicable statute, regulation,
           rule, local law or ordinance, and which the Village Engineer may deem appropriate, during the period
           while such violations are being remedied. The Village Engineer shall cause the order to remedy, or
           a copy thereof, to be served on the owner of the affected property personally or by registered mail
           or certified mail within five days after the date of the order to remedy. The Village Engineer shall
           be permitted, but not required, to cause the order to remedy, or a copy thereof, to be served on any
           builder, architect, tenant, contractor, subcontractor, construction superintendent, or their agents, or
           any other person taking part or assisting in work being performed at the affected property personally
           or by registered mail or certified mail within five days after the date of the order to remedy; provided,
           however, that failure to serve any person mentioned in this sentence shall not affect the efficacy of
           the compliance order. Unless the violation is abated within said period, the Village Engineer shall
           suspend or revoke the permit for the building operation under which the violation was committed.

     C.    If the notice of violation is not complied with as provided herein, the Village Engineer shall request
           the Village Attorney to institute the appropriate proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or
           abate such violation and to require the removal or termination of the unlawful condition or use of the
           building or structure.

     D.    Every person who shall violate this article shall be subject to a penalty as provided in § 382 of the
           Executive Law.


     § 86-21.8                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                    § 86-21.8

     E.    The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the taking of any appropriate
           action to prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a violation or to prevent illegal
           occupancy of a building, structure or premises or to stop an illegal act, disorderly conduct, business
           or use of a building, structure or premises.


                                                          ARTICLE II
                                             Deposits on Construction of New Homes34
                                              [Adopted 6-14-1976 by L.L. No. 1-1976]

     § 86-22. Definitions.

     When used in this Article, the following terms, unless the context requires otherwise, shall have the
     following meanings:
     DEFAULT — Occurs where title to the home is not transferred to the vendee because of the failure of the
     vendor to substantially perform those provisions of the agreement between the vendor and vendee, wherein
     the vendor undertook to build or construct a home for the vendee, or where the vendor becomes insolvent.
     DEMAND — The communication of an actual notice to the vendor of requests made therein.
     DEPOSIT — Any moneys given as downpayment by the vendee to the vendor as required by the vendor
     prior to the commencement of the work to be performed pursuant to an agreement between the vendor and
     the vendee, wherein the vendor undertook to build or construct a home for the vendee.
     HOME — A new one- or two-family dwelling intended to be used primarily as a residence.
     MUNICIPALITY — The Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
     VENDEE — Any individual or individuals who have contracted with a vendor for construction of a home
     on land not owned at the time of such agreement by such individual or individuals.
     VENDOR — Any person, firm, corporation or association engaged in the business of erecting or
     constructing homes.

     § 86-23. Security to be furnished by vendor.

     When a vendor undertakes to build or construct a home for a vendee and such vendee is required to pay
     a deposit to such vendor, the vendor shall post with the chief fiscal officer (the Village Treasurer) of the
     municipality wherein such home is to be erected or constructed a bond in the amount of such deposit or
     deposits. Such bond shall be posted within five business days after receipt of said deposit or deposits by
     the vendor and shall secure the payment of said deposit to the vendee upon the vendor's default. Such bond
     shall be in such form as required by the Superintendent of Insurance.

     § 86-24. Alternative to posting bond.

     In lieu of posting a bond as provided in this Article, the vendor shall place the deposit or deposits paid
     to him by the vendee in an interest-bearing escrow account with a bank, as defined in the Banking Law,
     within five business days after receipt of such deposit or deposits. Such deposit or deposits, together with
     interest accumulated thereon, shall remain the property of the vendee, except as otherwise provided herein.

     § 86-25. Disposition of security.

     A.     Upon transfer of title of the home to the vendee, the bond posted pursuant to this Article shall be
            released; and any funds held in escrow pursuant to the provisions of this Article, together with interest
            accumulated thereon, shall become the property of the vendor, unless otherwise agreed between the
            vendor and vendee.


     34. Editor's Note: For statutory provisions, see Art. 37 of the General Business Law, § 780 et seq.


     B.    Upon default by the vendor, the vendee may demand return of his deposit or deposits from the vendor.
           If the vendor has placed the deposit or deposits in an escrow account pursuant to the provisions of
           this article, he shall physically transfer the account to the vendee or pay the balance of said account
           to the vendee within 14 business days after the day on which the demand was made. If the vendor has
           posted a bond pursuant to the provisions of this article, the vendee may initiate action for payment
           thereon if his deposit or deposits have not been paid to such vendee by the vendor within 14 business
           days after the day in which said demand was made.

     § 86-26. Failure to comply; penalties for offenses; liability.

     A.    Failure of the vendor to comply with any of the provisions of this Article is a misappropriation of
           funds, and action may be brought by the vendee against the vendor for the return of any moneys
           advanced. In addition, such vendor shall be liable for criminal action pursuant to the provisions of
           Subsection B of this section.

     B.    Failure of the vendor to comply with any of the provisions of this Article shall be deemed a
           misdemeanor.

     C.    Nothing in this Article shall impair, limit or reduce the statutory, common law or contractual duties
           or liability of any vendor in the construction of a home, nor shall these provisions apply to any local
           law or ordinance which requires the posting of public improvement bonds.


     § 86-26                                     BUILDING CONSTRUCTION


                                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                                            § 88-5
