---
title: "Chapter 88: Buildings, Numbering Of"
chapter: 88
name: "Buildings, Numbering Of"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 88-1.               Legislative intent.                            § 88-6.               Maps.
     § 88-2.               Enumeration required.                          § 88-7.               Responsibility for enforcement.
     § 88-3.               Assignment of numbers.                         § 88-8.               Notice; penalties for offenses.
     § 88-4.               Display of numbers.                            § 88-9.               When effective.
     § 88-5.               Time limit for compliance.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 9-9-1992 by
     L.L. No. 11-1992.35 Amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                          GENERAL REFERENCES

     Property maintenance — See Ch. 179.                                  Subdivision of land — See Ch. 200.


     § 88-1. Legislative intent.

     In order to facilitate the location of buildings along the various roads and highways by fire, police and other
     emergency services, the Village Board does hereby deem the enumeration of all buildings to be of major
     importance for all of the village. In order to effectuate the efficient and accurate enumeration of buildings,
     the Village Board hereby enacts this chapter.

     § 88-2. Enumeration required.

     All buildings in the village existing and those hereafter constructed will have displayed either upon said
     building or at the driveway entrance thereto a number uniquely identifying said structure's location on any
     given road or highway.

     § 88-3. Assignment of numbers.

     The Building Department of the village shall, within nine months of the effective date of this chapter,
     notify each property owner of the numbers assigned to each existing structure. The Building Department
     will assign a number to each new building upon the issuance of a building permit. Any new certificate of
     occupancy issued after the effective date of this chapter shall have written upon its face the street name and
     number of the building.

     § 88-4. Display of numbers.

     All house numbers shall be at least four inches high and shall be clearly visible from the street. The location
     and installation of all house numbers shall be subject to the approval of the Police Chief and Fire Inspector.
     Any determination of the Fire Inspector or Police Chief with respect to the location of house numbers may
     be appealed, in writing, to the Village Board clearly stating the basis for the appeal.

     35. Editor's Note: This local law was originally adopted as Chapter 142 but was redesignated as Chapter 88 to maintain the alphabetical
         order of the Code.


     § 88-5                                     BUILDINGS, NUMBERING OF

     § 88-5. Time limit for compliance.

     Owners of all existing structures in the village to which house numbers have been assigned by the Building
     Department shall be required to display the assigned number on each building or other approved location
     in the manner required by § 88-4 above within 30 days of the assignment of such number. Any structure for
     which a certificate of occupancy is issued after the effective date of this chapter will be required to comply
     with the requirements of § 88-4 above prior to the issuance of such certificate.

     § 88-6. Maps.

     The Building Department of the village shall provide maps to all fire districts, ambulance corps and police
     agencies which serve the village showing all street names in the village and the numbers of all buildings
     thereon.

     § 88-7. Responsibility for enforcement.

     The Code Enforcement Officer is hereby declared to be responsible for the enforcement of this law and
     will require all property owners to comply.

     § 88-8. Notice; penalties for offenses.

     A.    Any property owner found to violate any provision herein shall be directed by the Code Enforcement
           Officer to remedy said violation within 10 days.

     B.    Any property owner failing to comply with said notice of violation shall be liable for a civil penalty
           in the amount of $250 for each week following the expiration date of the ten-day remedy period. The
           penalty herein is declared to be civil in nature.

     § 88-9. When effective.

     This chapter shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of the State.


                                                   CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE                                                  § 90-3
