---
title: "Chapter 81: Blasting"
chapter: 81
name: "Blasting"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 81-1.               Definitions.                                   § 81-5.                Warning air blasts.
     § 81-2.               Permit required; permit                        § 81-6.                Hours of operation.
                           conditions.                                    § 81-7.                Separate magazines required.
     § 81-3.               Issuance of permit; fee;                       § 81-8.                Rules and regulations.
                           revocation.                                    § 81-9.                Penalties for offenses.
     § 81-4.               Safety precautions.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 12-16-1985 by
     L.L. No. 12-1985. Sections 81-2A and B, 81-3 and 81-9 amended at time of adoption of Code; see
     Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                           GENERAL REFERENCES

     Environmental quality review — See Ch. 116.                          Fireworks — See Ch. 127.

     Erosion and sediment control — See Ch. 118.                          Noise — See Ch. 160.

     Excavations and soil removal — See Ch. 120.                          Water supply protection — See Ch. 223.


     § 81-1. Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
     PERSON — Includes a corporation, partnership, firm or association.

     § 81-2. Permit required; permit conditions.

     A.     No person shall blast or cause to be blasted any rock or other substance with any explosive in the
            Village of Croton-on-Hudson without having first obtained a permit from the Village Engineer or his
            designee covering the specific blasting operations, upon written application on a form approved by
            the Village Manager, which shall include such information as may be required to enable the Village
            Engineer or his designee to determine the impact of such blasting on the property involved and the
            surrounding property.28

     B.     Before such permit is issued, the person shall submit evidence, in the form of a certificate of insurance
            issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of New York and in a form
            acceptable to the Village Attorney, guaranteeing that the applicant has in full force and effect a policy
            of public liability insurance, including a specific endorsement covering the liabilities arising from
            blasting and providing bodily injury coverage of not less than $2,000,000 and property damage
            insurance of not less than $1,000,000. Such policy shall also save the village harmless from all claims,
            actions and proceedings brought by any person, firm or corporation for injury to person or property
            resulting from or occasioned by such blasting operations. Such policy shall contain the provision that

     28. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


            the policy shall not be canceled, terminated, modified or changed by the company unless 10 days'
            prior written notice is sent to the village by registered or certified mail. Such policy shall also provide
            that the presence of the Village Engineer or his designee or any other village employee on the site of
            the operations shall not affect the obligation of the insurer under its policy. No permit shall be valid
            unless such insurance is in full force and effect.29

     C.     Before such permit is issued, the person shall submit for review his current state explosives license
            and competence permit as issued under Article 16 of the Labor Law. No village permit shall be valid
            unless such state licenses are in full force and effect for the applicant.

     D.     Before such permit is issued, the person shall deposit an amount with the village deemed sufficient
            by the Village Manager to cover the salary and benefit costs of a village employee to be present
            during all blasting operations for which the permit is intended.

     § 81-3. Issuance of permit; fee; revocation.30

     Such permit, when approved and signed by the Village Engineer or his designee and upon payment of a
     fee in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees, shall be issued by the Village Engineer or his
     designee, who shall keep a record thereof.31 Each permit shall specify the name of the permittee, the date of
     expiration [which shall be no later than three months from the date of issue] and the particular place where
     the blasting is to be done. The Board of Trustees may revoke any permit issued hereunder at any time.

     § 81-4. Safety precautions.

     All blasts, before firing, shall be covered with rope or metal matting, heavy timbers chained together or
     other suitable screens of sufficient size, weight and strength to prevent the escape of broken rock or other
     material in a manner liable to cause injury or damage to persons or property. All blasting shall be in
     accordance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations.

     § 81-5. Warning air blasts.

     No person shall fire or explode or direct or cause to be fired or exploded any blast in or near any highway or
     public place in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson unless a warning air blast is given to give proper warning
     thereof at least three minutes in advance of firing and two warning air blasts are given at the conclusion of
     the blasting operation.

     § 81-6. Hours of operation. [Amended 8-21-1989 by L.L. No. 7-1989]

     No person shall conduct blasting operations within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson after the hour of 5:00
     p.m. and before 8:00 a.m. nor at any time on Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, except under authority
     of a special permit issued by the Board of Trustees.

     § 81-7. Separate magazines required.

     During blasting operations, explosives shall be stored separately from igniters, and for this purpose
     separate receptacles shall be built or provided and placed at a reasonable distance apart one from the other.


     29. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.
     30. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.
     31. Editor's Note: The current fee resolution is on file in the office of the Village Clerk.


     § 81-8                                        CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     § 81-8. Rules and regulations.

     The Village Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to establish and promulgate rules and
     regulations concerning blasting operations in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, storage of explosives and
     other matters contained in this chapter not inconsistent with the other provisions of this chapter. Such
     rules and regulations, when established and promulgated by the Village Manager, shall be binding upon all
     persons to whom a permit is issued pursuant to this chapter.

     § 81-9. Penalties for offenses.32

     Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be
     subject to a fine of $500 for each offense. Every violation of any provision in this chapter shall be a separate
     and distinct offense; and in case of continuing violation, every day's continuance thereof shall be deemed
     to be a separate and distinct offense.


     32. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


                                                       BOATS AND BOATING
