---
title: "Chapter 90: Buildings, Unsafe"
chapter: 90
name: "Buildings, Unsafe"
source: "Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Code (ecode360.com/CR0035)"
downloaded: "2026-05-15"
sections: 1
---

§ 90-1.                Abatement of unsafe conditions                § 90-7.                Authorization of village to
                            required.                                                            abate conditions.
     § 90-2.                Responsibility of owners.                     § 90-8.                Vacation of premises; posting
     § 90-3.                Inspection and notice upon                                           of notice.
                            failure to comply.                            § 90-9.                Emergency powers.
     § 90-4.                Survey of premises; report.                   § 90-10.               Assessment of costs against
     § 90-5.                Application for court order.                                         land.
     § 90-6.                Application for court order.                  § 90-11.               Establishment of lien.


     [HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson 6-13-1977 by
     L.L. No. 11-1977. Sections 90-3, 90-8, 90-9 and 90-11 amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch.
     1, General Provisions, Art. I. Other amendments noted where applicable.]

                                                           GENERAL REFERENCES

     Penalties for offenses — See Ch. 1, § 1-12.                          Housing standards — See Ch. 141.

     Building construction — See Ch. 86.                                  Property maintenance — See Ch. 179.

     Fire prevention — See Ch. 125.


     § 90-1. Abatement of unsafe conditions required.

     All buildings or structures which are structurally unsafe, insanitary or which constitute a fire hazard or are
     otherwise dangerous to human life or which constitute a hazard to safety or health are, for the purpose of
     this chapter, "unsafe buildings." All unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be illegal and shall be abated
     by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance with the procedure of this chapter.

     § 90-2. Responsibility of owners.

     No person, firm, corporation or association, who or which is the owner of a building in the Village
     of Croton-on-Hudson, shall cause, suffer, allow or permit said building to become or remain an unsafe
     building. In the event that any building now is or hereafter becomes an unsafe building from any cause
     whatsoever, said owner or occupant shall promptly repair or remove said building.

     § 90-3. Inspection and notice upon failure to comply.36

     In the event of the failure of the owner of any such building to repair or remove the same, the Village
     Engineer or his designee shall make a complete inspection and report of the condition of said building to
     the Board of Trustees of the village. The Village Engineer shall cause notice to be served on the owner
     or some one of the owners, executors, legal representatives, agents, lessees or any other person having


     36. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


     § 90-3                                              BUILDINGS, UNSAFE                                     § 90-9

     a vested or contingent interest in said building. Said notice shall contain a description of the premises, a
     statement of the particulars in which the building or structure is unsafe or dangerous and an order requiring
     said building or structure to be made safe and secure or be removed. Said notice shall also provide for
     the time within which the person served with said notice shall commence and complete the securing or
     removal of the building or structure. If service shall be made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the
     notice shall be posted on the premises.

     § 90-4. Survey of premises; report.

     In the event of the neglect or refusal of the person so served with said notice to comply with the same, a
     survey of the premises shall be made by the Village Engineer and a practical builder, engineer or architect
     named by the Board of Trustees and a practical builder, engineer or architect appointed by the person
     notified as above; and, in the event of the refusal or neglect of the person so notified to appoint such
     surveyor, the two surveyors named shall make the survey and report.

     § 90-5. Application for court order.

     The notice referred to in § 90-3 above shall further provide that, in the event that the building or other
     structure shall be reported dangerous or unsafe under such survey, an application will be made at any
     term of the Supreme Court, Westchester County, or any other court of competent jurisdiction for an order
     determining the building or other structure to be a public nuisance and directing that it shall be repaired
     and secured or taken down and removed.

     § 90-6. Application for court order.

     A signed copy of the report of the survey shall be posted on the building, and the surveyor appointed by
     the Board of Trustees may be compensated by the village.

     § 90-7. Authorization of village to abate conditions.

     In case the owner, agent, lessee, occupant or other person having an interest in the building cannot be found
     within the stated time limit or if such person shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with said notice to repair
     and rehabilitate or to demolish and remove said unsafe building or portion thereof after it has been found
     unsafe or dangerous in the survey provided for in § 90-4 above, the Board of Trustees shall be advised of
     all the facts in the case and shall be empowered to institute an appropriate action in the Supreme Court,
     Westchester County, or other court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance or, alternatively, to
     authorize the village to take the necessary action at the owner's expense.

     § 90-8. Vacation of premises; posting of notice.37

     If the Village Engineer finds that there is actual and immediate danger of failure or collapse so as to
     endanger life, the notice provided for in § 90-3 above shall also require the building or portion thereof
     to be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until the specified repairs and improvements are completed,
     inspected and approved by the building official. The Village Engineer shall cause to be posted at each
     entrance to such building a notice reading: "This building is unsafe, and its use or occupancy has been
     prohibited by the Village Engineer." Such notice shall remain posted until the required repairs are made or
     demolition is completed. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or their agents or other
     servants to remove such notice without written permission of the Village Engineer or for any person to
     enter the building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or demolishing the same.

     37. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


     § 90-9                                         CROTON-ON-HUDSON CODE

     § 90-9. Emergency powers.38

     In cases of emergency which, in the opinion of the Village Engineer or his designee, involve imminent
     danger to human life or health, he shall promptly cause such building, structure or portion thereof to
     be made safe or removed. For this purpose, he may at once enter such structure or land on which it
     stands or abutting land or structure, with such assistance and at such cost as may be necessary. He may
     vacate adjacent structures and protect the public by appropriate barricades or such other means as may be
     necessary and, for this purpose, may close a public or private way.

     § 90-10. Assessment of costs against land.

     All costs and expenses incurred by the village in connection with any and all of the above proceedings to
     remove or secure, including the cost of actually removing said building or structure or securing the same,
     shall be assessed against the land on which the building or structure is located.

     § 90-11. Establishment of lien.39

     If such owner or persons served with the notice provided for in § 90-3 above shall fail to pay the costs
     and expenses incurred by the village within 10 days after being notified of the costs thereof by registered
     or certified mail, the Village Clerk shall file, immediately preceding the time for making the annual
     assessment roll, a certificate of such actual cost and expense with a statement as to the property upon which
     such cost and expense were incurred and the buildings or other obstructions removed, as the case may be,
     with the Assessor of the village, who shall, in the preparation of the next assessment roll of general village
     taxes, assess such amount upon such property, and the same shall be levied, collected and enforced in the
     same manner, by the same proceedings, at the time, under the same penalties and having the same lien
     upon the property assessed as the general village tax and as a part thereof.


     38. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.
     39. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code; see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I.


                                                            CANNABIS
