---
title: "LL 13-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-11-28
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 13-2001
Filed: 2001-11-28
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 13-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-11-28
---

Local Law 13-2001
Filed: 2001-11-28


_3

I^cal Law Filing

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to flle a local law with the Secretary of State.)

[JpS^^f^P^^

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and d(|lfto|u|^ ^
italics or underUning to indicate new matter.
_

|^

NOV 28 2001
of

Croton-on-Hudson

MISCELLANEOUS
& STATE RECORDS

Illage
Local Law No. —1?-

ofthe year^(^J-?-QP1

A locai law. ...entitled _l'Adp^.ti.on,M..tJ3
(InMrt Title}

Compact Plan"

Be It enacted by the _. Jo^l^lln^t??^
(Name

f^i^

of

^^^^

ofLegifltthfeBody)

^'^ Croton on Hudson

asfoiiows-

Villace

Section 1. Adoption of Westchester Countv Greenway Compact Plan
1.

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 44-0119 of the Environmental Conservation
Law ofthe State of New York, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby adopts
the statement of policies, principles and guides detailed in the four compendiums
titled, Tourism and Economic Development Pian (April 1997j, Hudson River
Waterfront Present and Future (June 1998), Buiiding Livable Downtowns (June
1999) and Growing Smarter Together (September 2000), and Pattems for
Westchester: The Land and the People which together comprise the Westchester
County Greenway Compact Plan (hereinafter referred to as Greenway Compact
Plan), by which the Village of Croton-on-Hudson becomes a participating
community in the Greenway Compact.

2.

Proposals to amend the Greenway Compact Plan may from time to time be
made by the Hudson River Valley Greenway Communities Council (hereinafter
referred to as "Greenway Council") in response to requests from participating
communities. Within 90 days of receipt of any such proposal from the Greenway
Council, the Village Board ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall determine by
resolution whether to accept or to reject such proposed amendment. Any
proposed amendment so accepted shall be considered an amendment of the
Greenway Compact Plan as adopted by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson. Any
proposed amendment rejected by the Village Board will not be considered to be
an amendment of the Greenway Plan for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
notice of such rejection shall promptly be provided to the Greenway Council.

3.

It is stated policy ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson that, to the extent the
Village amends its current, or enacts new, land use laws and regulations, such
new or amended laws and regulations, where appropriate, should be designed to
be consistent with the Greenway Compact Plan.

Section 2. Amendment of Zoning Code
To implement the Greenway Compact Plan in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, the
Zoning chapter ofthe Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended by
the addition ofthe following provision:
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has adopted the Greenway Compact Plan, as
amended from time to time, as a statement of policies, principles, and guides to
supplement other established land use policies in the Village. In its discretionary
actions under this zoning code, the reviewing agency should take into
consideration said statement of policies, principles and guides, as appropriate.

Section 3. Amendment of Subdivision Regulations
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has adopted the Greenway Compact Plan, as
amended from time to time, as a statement of policies, principles and guides to
supplement other land use policies in the Village. In its discretionary actions
under the Subdivision of Land chapter ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson Code,
the reviewing agency should take into consideration said statement of policies,
principles and guides, as appropriate.
Section 4. Home Rule of Authoritv
Nothing in this Local Law adopting the Compact Plan, or in becoming a participating
community in the Compact Plan is intended, or shall be construed (a) to limit the home
rule authority of the Village under State Law to make local land use and zoning
decisions, (b) to authorize any other entity to supersede the Village's land use laws and
regulations or to impose any requirements on the Village, or (c) to prevent the Village in
its sole discretion from adopting a local law at a later date for the purpose of
withdrawing from the Greenway Compact or Westchester County Greenway Compact
Plan.
Section 5. Reviewing Agency
The term "reviewing agency" as used in this local law shall mean any agency, board,
commission, or other official body of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson empowered to
make decisions or recommendations with respect to land use matters.
Section 6. Separability
If any part or provision ofthis Local Law or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance be adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such

judgement shall be confined in its operation to the part of provision or application
directly involved in the controversy In which judgement shall have been rendered and
shall not affect or impair the validity of the remainder of this Local Law or the application
thereof to other persons or circumstances, and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby
declares that it would have passed this Local Law or the remainder thereof had such
invalid application or invalid provision been apparent.
Section 7. Effective Date
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office ofthe Secretary of
State in accordance with Section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certlflcation in the paragraph that applies to thefliingof this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by iocal legislative body oniy.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. .._J.3
__
of^RQOl
of the M^ii)i:^Cl){'2[^^
of .XrfOion-&n---HudsoJi
was duly passed by the
...l9?L4..9l. Jr.y.?]?es
on-'A9y.:..l?-- WS)^} in accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.
(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as lo?al k w No.
of 19
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Vdlage) of
was duly passed by the
— on
19 , and was (approved)(not app roved) (repassed after
(Name ofLegistative Body)

disapproval) by the

-

—

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*}

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoptton by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legistative Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

-

19— . Such local law was submitted

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19-— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to pennissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petition was flled requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(VTttage) of —
—
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legistative Body)

disapproval) by the—;

on

19—. Such local law was subject to

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

permissive referendum and.no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive ofRcer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of
---having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quahfied electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—,
became operative.

6. (County locai law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.—
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—-, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 ofsection 33 ofthe
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the quaUfied electors of the cities ofsaid county as a unit and a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe towns ofsaid county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(Ifany other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was filially adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph—QJ3£.-., above.

or ofHcer designated by local legwiative body

M

Date:

Oi^/^^

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Counsel, Ibwn Attomey, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATEOFNEWYORK

^.T*™

„

. ,

Westchester

COUNTYOF

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contams the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law anaexed hereto.

Sigiiature

Village Attorney
Title

,

mm""'
Village
Date:
(3)

Croton-on-Hudson


