---
title: "LL 12-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 33 MEETINGS, TO UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC NOTICE AND"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-07-17
chapters: Ch 33
status: current
---

LL 12-2025
Filed: 2025-07-17
Amends: Ch 33
TO AMEND CHAPTER 33 MEETINGS, TO UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC NOTICE AND MINUTES

---
title: "Local Law 12-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 33 MEETINGS, TO UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC NOTICE AND"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-07-17
---

Local Law 12-2025
Filed: 2025-07-17
TO AMEND CHAPTER 33 MEETINGS, TO UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC NOTICE AND MINUTES

New York State
NEW
YORK
STATE

D e p a r t m e n t
"
*

of S t a t e

Department of state
DIVISION O F CORPORATIONS,
STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Corporations, State Records & UCC

L o c a l L a w Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of tiie iocal government listed below:
13
Local Law Titie: ^ ,

,

of the year 20 £5

AMFMH C H A P T F R

MFFTiMriR T O i iPOATF V A R I O I IR

PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC NOTICE AND l\yilNUTES

Be it enacted by the ^"^''^ of Trustees

o^tj^^

(Name of Legislative Body)

•

County

•

City

•

Town

0 Village

(Select one)

Croton-on-Hudson

as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only
FILED
STATE RECORDS

JUL 1 7 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LOCAL LAWS INDEX NUMBER _
OFTHE YEAR 20

Department of State Local Law Index Number:

}^

of the year 20 c3.5

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)
DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by iocal iegisiative b o d y only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number _1?
the (County)(Clty){Town)(Village) of

of 20

Croton-on-Hudson

Village Board of T r u s t e e s
r
fWame of Legislative Body)

on

of

y^as duly passed by the
July 0 9
^

on 2 5
20

.
,
in accordance

with the applicable provisions of law.
2. (Passage by local legislative b o d y w i t h a p p r o v a l , n o d i s a p p r o v a l or r e p a s s a g e after d i s a p p r o v a l by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on ^

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
on

20

In accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County){City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not app roved) (re passed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")

20

,

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason o f a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive r e f e r e n d u m a n d final adoption because n o valid p e t i t i o n w a s filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County){City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on

[

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

^on
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer")

20
requesting such referendum was filed as of

. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
20

in accordance with the

applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto iocal laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f (Rev. 02/25)

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
the City of

of 20

of

having submitted to referendum pursuant to

the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote ofa
majonty of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20

became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local iaw annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number
the County of

of 20

of

State of New York, having been submitted to

the electors at the General Election of November

20

pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of

section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph

above.
Pauline DiSanto
Clerk of the county legislative body, Cft^, Tpwn or Village Clerk or
officer designated by loeal legislative bo3y

(Seal).

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

J " l y ^ ° . 2025
(Date)

page 3 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 12 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 33, MEETINGS, TO UPDATE VARIOUS
PROVISIONS FOR PUBLIC NOTICE AND MINUTES
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 33-2 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to
read as follows:
§ 33-2. Definitions.
A. The terms, words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meanings as such
terms, words and phrases are defmed in § 102 of the PubUc Officers Law.
B. As used in this chapter, the following terras shall have the meanings indicated:
BOARD — The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
MINUTES - The official record or summary of all motions, proposals, resolutions and
any other matter formally voted upon and the vote thereon. For the purposes of § 33-12,
minutes shall include unabridged audio or video recordings.
NEWS MEDIA — The official newspapers of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as they
may be determined from time to time.
Section Two. Section 215-45 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to read as follows:
§ 33-8. Notice of meetings scheduled one week in advance.
A.
B.

A notice of meetings scheduled at least one week in advance shall be posted at least 72
hours in advance of such meetings at the location designated by § 33-4 herein.
Notice of meetings scheduled al least one week in advance shall be given or electronically
transmitted to the news media designated in § 33-5 at least 72 hours in advance of such
meetings.

Section Three. Section 225-8 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby added as
follows:
§ 33-9. Notice of meetings scheduled less than one week in advance.
A. A notice of meetings scheduled less than a week in advance shall be posted as soon as
practicable at the location designated in § 33-4 herein.

B. To the extent practicable, notice to the news media designated in § 33-5 shall be given or
electronically transmitted as soon as practicable.
Section Four. Section 225-8 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby added as
follows:
§ 33-12. Minutes.
A. Minutes shall be taken at all open meetings of the Board and shall be available to the public
within two weeks from the date of such meeting.
B. Minutes shall be taken at executive sessions only of actions taken by formal vote, if any,
and shall consist of a summary of such action and the vote thereon.
1.
Minutes of executive sessions shall be available to the public within one week from
the date of the executive session.
2.
Unless the Board approves such minutes within the one-week period, the Mayor is
authorized to approve the minutes of any executive session as soon as practicable
after any such session so that they may be available to the public in accordance with
Subsection B(l) above. Approval by the Mayor is subject to ratification by the
Board at the next scheduled meeting.
Section Four. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in fiiU force and effect.
Section Five. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #171-2025
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Chapter 33, Meetings, of the Village Code in
1977;and
WHEREAS, since that time, state law has been updated to reflect the ability to transmit notices of
public meetings and meeting minutes electronically; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 10 of
2025, which has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2025 was opened and closed on
July 9, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has determined that the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 10
of 2025 to be a Type I I action under the State Environmental Quality Review Act, requiring no
environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 10 of 2025 to amend Chapter 33, Meetings, to reflect the ability to transmit
notices of public meetings and meeting minutes electronically, which upon adoption becomes Local
Law No. 12 of 2025.
Dated: July 9, 2025

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on the 09 of July, 2025.
IN WITNESS WHJ^^^pErT-liaiCC hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this


