---
title: "LL 16-2025: REVISING CHAPTER 186 "RENTAL HOUSING OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO CREATE A RENTAL UNIT"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-10-20
chapters: Ch 186
status: current
---

LL 16-2025
Filed: 2025-10-20
Amends: Ch 186
REVISING CHAPTER 186 "RENTAL HOUSING OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO CREATE A RENTAL UNIT REGISTRY IN THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

---
title: "Local Law 16-2025: REVISING CHAPTER 186 "RENTAL HOUSING OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO CREATE A RENTAL UNIT"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-10-20
---

Local Law 16-2025
Filed: 2025-10-20
REVISING CHAPTER 186 "RENTAL HOUSING OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO CREATE A RENTAL UNIT REGISTRY IN THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

New York State

NEW
YORK
^ STATE

Department of State

DIVISION O^F^CORPORATION*^^

C o r p o r a t i o n s , State Records & UCC

STATE RECORDS A N D
U N I F O R M COMMERCJAL C O D E
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the iegisiative body of the Iocai government iisted beiow:
}^
Local Law Title: ^,^^^^^1 ,

of the year 20 25

RFwisiKin H H A P T F R

"RFMTAI

Hni iRiMf^" O F T H F \/ii I Ar^F

CODE TO CREATE A RENTAL UNIT REGISTRY IN THE VILLAGE QF
nRnTnN-nM-Htin.QnN

,

Be it enacted by the ^oard of Trustees

of^j^e

(Name of Legislative Body)

•

County

•

City

•

Town

0

Village

(Select one)

of C r o t o n - o n - H u d s o n

follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only

FILED
STATE RECORDS
OCT 2 0 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Department

of State Local

Law Index Number:

t(o

of the year 20

^

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body ofthe local government.)
DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 1 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 16 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW REVISING CHAPTER 186 "RENTAL HOUSING" OF THE VILLAGE
CODE TO CREATE A RENTAL UNIT REGISTRY IN THE V I L L A G E OF CROTONON-HUDSON
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1:
Purpose and Intent: The Board of Trustees finds that it is necessary and
appropriate for the protection ofthe health, safety and welfare of the Village residents to provide
a uniform program for the registration and inspection of rental properties within the Village.
Section 2:
Chapter 186 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson entitled
"Rental Housing" is hereby revised with the addition of Article II as follows:
ARTICLE II
Rental Unit Registry
§ 186-3. Legislative findings, purpose and intent.
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby fmds and declares that the
rental or otherwise letting of all or any portion of a dwelling unit constitutes a business which
has the potential to impact upon the health, safety, general welfare and quality of life ofthe
people of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the public. The purpose of this legislation is to
establish a uniform program for the registration and inspection of rental properties within the
Village to protect and safeguard the rights, health, safety and welfare of occupants and landlords
and ensure proper maintenance of the rental housing stock through the participation of owners,
tenants, the Village and the community through annual registration and inspections of premises
at which such housing stock is located.
The intent of the program is to achieve the following beneficial purposes:
A.
The protection of the character and stability of the residential areas within the Village;
B.
The correction and prevention of housing conditions and occupancy of dwelling units that
adversely affect or are likely to adversely affect the health, safety, and general welfare of
the public and the owners and occupants of residential dwellings;
C.
The enforcement of minimum standards for heating, plumbing, adequate bathroom
facilities and other recognized acceptable sanitary living conditions necessary for health
and safety;
D.
The enforcement of minimum standards for light and ventilation necessary for health and
safety;
E.
The enforcement of minimum standards for the maintenance of existing residential
buildings and the prevention of deterioration and blight conditions;

4918-2334-3974, v. 2

F.

The preservation of the value of land and buildings throughout the Village.

§ 186-4. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
DWELLING UNIT: Shall have the same meaning as set forth in Chapter 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code.
RENTAL UNIT: A room or group of rooms consisting of all or a portion of a dwelling unit
forming a single habitable unit which may be occupied by a person or persons for living or
sleeping, including for a short-term rental.
HOUSING CODE: All Federal, State, County and local laws, codes, ordinances, rules and
regulations applicable to housing maintenance and construction standards, including but not
limited to the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code and the State Energy
Conservation Construction Code.
OWNER: The owner or owners of the premises on which the rental dwelling unit is or will be
located which may also include the holder of a lesser estate, a mortgagee or vendee in
possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee or agent ofthe owner.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: A rental unit that is let by lease, license or other form of agreement
for a durational time period of between one and 30 days.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The Village Engineer of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, or their
qualified designee. Certified code enforcement officials working for the Village are hereby deemed
inherently qualified under this chapter.
§ 186-5. Rental unit registration, exemptions, criteria.
A.

B.

Registration required. No person shall adow any rental unit to be occupied, leased or
otherwise let to person for occupancy unless the owner has first registered with the Village
and obtained a rental unit registration certificate as either a (1) rental unit or (2) short term
rental unit.
1. Exemptions. The provisions of this article shall not apply to (1) owneroccupied properties containing two or fewer dwelling units which are not
short-term rentals; (2) properties owned by a college or university for
occupancy by administrative officers and/or faculty free of charge; (3)
properties owned by a faith-based non-profit organization for use as a living
quarters by clergy free of charge; (4) hotels, motels, inns, bed-and-breakfasts;
(5) hospitals; nursing homes; assisted living facilities; (6) group homes or
other dwelling units which provide medical or nursing services if such units
are subject to slate or federal li(;ensing or regulations concerning the safety of
the users, patients or occupants.
Criteria. The following are required for th e issuance or validity of a rental unit certificate:

4918-2334-3974, v. 2

1. Inspection for compliance with housing code. The owner ofthe premises upon
which a rental unit is or will be located acknowledges that an inspection by the
Village shall be scheduled and conducted for the purpose of confirming compliance
with the housing code. Following the inspection and as set forth herein, the Village
shall provide the owner with a witten copy of the results of the inspection indicating
that the premises (a) is in compliance with the housing code, or (b) has not passed
the inspection with details as to the manner in which the premises fails to comply
with the housing code, including a citation to the specific provision or provisions
that have not been met.
2. Real property taxes status. The owner of the premises upon which a rental unit is or
will be located acknowledges that the Village will require that all real property taxes
are current and up to date.
§186-6 Enforcement, presumptive evidence.
The Village Engineer, or their designee, shall have enforcement responsibilities outlined in this
chapter.
The existence of the following shall create a rebuttable presumption that a premises is being
used as or contains a rental unit:
(1)

The property is advertised as offered for lease, rent or otherwise to let for occupancy
on a realtor, rental or other housing website, including but not limited to Airbnb,
HomeAway, VRBO and similar websites, or by other advertising means.

§186-7. Application for registration.
A.

Within ninety (90) days after the effective date of this Article, the owner of each nonexempt rental dwelling unit existing as ofthe effective date shall apply to the Village
Engineer's Office for a rental unit registration certificate. After the effective date, the
owner of each new rental unit constructed or otherwise created shall apply for and
obtain a rental unit registration certificate as herein provided prior to initial occupancy.
All applications shall be made on a form furnished by the Village and shall provide
the following information at a minimum, with additional information as may be
necessary for efficient and effective administration, enforcement, and compliance
with the provisions of this article and the housing code:
(1) Owner name, principal residence address, principal business address, e-mail
address and telephone number, including cell phone number.
(2) If the owner is an association, limited liability partnership, joint tenancy, tenancy in
common or tenancy by the entirety, then each and every owner or general partner
shall be indicated on the application with the same contact information set forth
above.
(3) If the owner is a corporation or LLC, the principal place of business of the
corporation must be provided and the name, title and contact information for all
officers, managing or general agents must be included.
(4) If the owner has designated an authorized agent or management company, then

4918-2334-3974, v. 2

the same contact information shall be provided for such agent or management
company in addition to that of the owner.
(5) It shall be the responsibility ofthe owner to properly register any change of
address, agent or any other information which occurs after the filing ofthe
application.
(6) For purposes of this section, a post office box shall not be accepted as the
owner's address. Further, the building intended to be licensed shall not be
accepted as the owner's address unless it is the principal place of business or
residence ofthe owner.
(7) The owner shall specify the address(es) to which all notices pertaining to this
article shall be forwarded.
(8) If the owner does not reside within the County of Putnam or the County of
Westchester, the owner must provide the name address and contact
information, including a telephone number, of an authorized contact/agent who
resides within those counties to be used for emergency contact purposes.
(9) If the property on which any rental unit is located was constructed prior to
1978, the owner shall provide with the application a sworn certification
including: (1) acknowledging the potential existence of lead paint; (ii)
compliance with mandatory disclosure requirements concerning property that
may contain lead paint; and (iii) obligation to undertake lead-safe methods
during painting, renovation, or repair ofthe property. A form for such sworn
certification shall be provided by the Village,
B.

Failure to provide a complete application, including any additional information required
by the Village and the applicable fee, or the refusal to schedule the requisite inspection
shall be grounds to deny or revoke a rental unit registration certificate, including for
short-term rental.

§186-8. Issuance, denial or revocation of rental unit registration certificate.
In connection with a rental unit registration certificate, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall (I)
investigate and confirm that all real property taxes are current and up to date, and (2) schedule
and conduct an inspection of the premises upon which the rental unit is or will be located to
confirm compliance with the housing code.
a. Following completion of an inspection which confirms compliance with the
housing code, and upon confirmation that all real estate taxes are up to date, the
Village shall issue the short-term rental unit certificate or the rental unit certificate
as may be applicable.
b. If the real estate taxes are not current and up to date, the Village will grant a grace
period of not more than 30 days during which the owner must provide proof of
payment in full. In the event the proof of payment is not received within the 30day period, the rental unit certificate shall be denied or revoked as may be
applicable.
c. Following completion of an inspection that identifies noncompliance with the
housing code or the investigation reveals open property taxes, the Village shall
issue a notice of violation in accordance with this article for the correction of any

4918-2334-3974, v. 2

violations of the housing code. Upon re-inspection, if the Village finds
noncompliance with the notice of violation, the rental unit certificate shall be
denied or revoked as may be applicable in accordance with the procedure set forth
in this article.
§ 186-9. Notice of violation.
A.

Whenever the Village Engineer determines that a premises containing a rental unit is
in violation ofthe housing code, a notice of violation will be issued to the owner
which shall set forth the following, at a minimum:
(1) The location of the subject property;
(2) Specific violations of the housing code; and
(3) A reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, for the correction of any
violations, except that any violations which are deemed to be an imminent threat to
life and safety are cause for an accelerated period for correction and/or immediate
rejection or revocation of a rental unit registration certificate as the facts may justify.
B. Such notice may contain any additional information as determined by the Village
Engineer which may be necessary to achieve the goals of this article.
C. Except for non-qualifying violations as set forth above, for purposes of this article,
the Village Engineer, upon good cause shown, may grant additional time to correct
violafions ofthe housing code beyond thirty (30) days. Any such extensions shall be
requested and issued in writing stating the reasons for such extension and otherwise
in accordance with the requirements of this article.
D. The notice of violation shall be mailed by first-class mail to the owner at the address
provided pursuant to this article or personally served upon the owner by delivering
the notice to the owner or by delivering the notice to a person of suhable age and
discretion at the owner's residence or place of business.
E. On or before the deadline for correction of the violation, the owner must schedule a
re-inspection of the premises. Upon re-inspection, if the Village finds
noncompliance with the notice of violation or additional violations of the housing
code, the rental unit registration certificate may be denied or revoked as applicable
with such denial or revocation provided in a written statement setting forth the
reasons for the denial or revocation.
§ 186-10. Effect of expiration, denial or revocation.
A.

B.

Vacant units. When a rental unit registration certificate for a vacant rental unit has expired
or been denied, revoked or terminated, no further rental and occupancy shall be permitted
until a rental unit registration certificate has been issued in accordance with this article. A
notice shall be affixed to the exterior of the building or structure within which the rental
unit is located.
Occupied units. In addition to other remedies at law or equify, when a rental unit
registration certificate has expired, or been denied or revoked in accordance with this
article, the rental unit shall be vacated after the Village Engineer provides notice to the
owner and the occupants of the rental unit. Such notice shall direct the owner and occupants
ofthe rental unit to vacate within a period of time as determined by the Village Engineer

4918-2334-3974, V. 2

C.

D.

and may provide a reasonable period for the owner or occupants an opportunity to cure
violations or non-payment of real estate taxes. If to the owner, such notice shall be mailed
by first class mail to the address provided by the owner pursuant to this article or personally
served upon the owner by delivering the notice to the owner or by delivering the notice to
a person of suitable age and discretion at the owner's residence or place of business. If to
the occupant(s), such notice shall be mailed to the address of the rental unit or posted
conspicuously at the premises upon which the rental unit is located. Vacated rental units
shall not be reoccupied until a rental unit registration certificate has been duly issued.
Occupied units with immediate hazard. In addition to other remedies at law or equity, when
a rental unit registration certificate has expired, or been denied or revoked for reasons
which, in the determinafion of the Village Engineer, present violafions ofthe housing code
that create an immediate hazard to the health and safety ofthe occupants and/or the public,
the rental unit shall be vacated within the period of time reasonably determined by the
Village Engineer under the circumstances. The determination of the Village Engineer shall
be in writing and shall direct the owner and occupants of the rental unit presenfing the
immediate hazard to vacate the premises within a period of time not to exceed thirty (30)
days. The determination shall be mailed by first-class mail to the owner at the address
provided by the owner pursuant to this article or personally served upon the owner by
delivering the notice to the owner or by delivering the notice to a person of suitable age
and discretion at the owner's residence or place of business. The determination shall also
be conspicuously posted at the premises upon which the rental unit is located, and to the
extent possible, it shall also be posted conspicuously at each rental unit. Vacated rental
units shall not be reoccupied until a rental unit registration certificate has been duly issued.
The notices provided under this section shall not qualify as sufficient grounds for or be
used to institute a summary eviction proceeding under the New York Real Property Actions
and Proceedings Law.

§ 186-11. Term of rental unit registration.
A rental unit registration, other than for short-term rental, issued pursuant to this article shall expire
no later than three (3) years after the date of its issuance, unless sooner revoked. A short-term
rental unit certificate issued pursuant to this article shall expire one (1) year after its date of
issuance. Within sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of a rental unit registration certificate, the
owner shall make written application for a rental unit registration certificate in accordance with
this article. In no event shall a rental unit registration certificate issued pursuant to this article
remain in effect beyond the expiration date unless extended by the Village Engineer for good and
sufficient cause presented by the owner.
§ 186-12. Transfer of rental unit registration.
A rental unit registration certificate issued pursuant to this article is transferable to a successor in
tide to the premises as to the remaining unexpired portion of the term for which it was issued
provided that: (1) an application to transfer such certificate is filed with the Village Engineer within
thirty (30) days of the transfer of title; (2) the information required by § 186-7 is provided and the
rental unit is in compliance with the housing code.

4918-2334-3974, v. 2

§ 186-13. Revocation of rental unit registration certificate, grounds, hearing.
A.

A rental unit registrafion certificate issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the
Village Engineer for any one or more of the following reasons:
(1) Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement as to a material fact in the
application.
(2) A finding that a rental unit registrafion was issued in error and not in accordance
with applicabie law.
(3) A violation of any of the provisions of the housing code, including
noncompliance with a notice of violation issued pursuant to this article.
(4) A violafion of applicable lead-based paint laws or regulafions and failure to
remediate after issuance of a order to remedy.
(5) The Village Engineer determines that the rental unit does not substanfially
conform with this article or the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and
Building Code.
(6) A finding that the owner or other person responsible for payment of property
taxes of the rental dwelling unit is in arrears on said property taxes.

B.

Revocations and Violations under this section shall be appealable to Zoning Board of
Appeals in due course. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall issue a written statement
following the hearing setting forth the reasons for their decision.

§ 186-14. Duties of certificate holder.
Every holder of a rental unit registration certificate shall:
A. Conspicuously post the certificate in a protected mounting in the corridor, hallway or
lobby of the building for which the certificate was issued. If no common corridor,
hallway or lobby exists, then posting shall be made at the entrance of each rental
unit. A copy of the certificate must be provided to the occupant of the rental unit and
produced upon demand of the Village Engineer.
B. Comply with and cause occupants of any rental unit to comply with all other
applicable laws, regulations and ordinances on matters not specifically addressed in
this article, including but not limited to Chapter 160 "Noise", Chapter 108 "Dogs",
Chapter 197 "Streets and Sidewalks; Chapter 135 "Garbage, Rubbish and Littering";
Chapter 185 "Recycling"; and Chapter 70 "Alarm Systems".
C. The occupancy agreement for a rental unit regulated under this article must include a
disclosure of the smoking policy for the premises on which the rental unit is located.
The disclosure must state whether smoking is prohibited on the premises, allowed on
the entire premises or allowed in limited areas on the premises. If the smoking
policy allows smoking in limited areas on the premises, the disclosure must identify
the areas on the premises where smoking is permitted.
§ 186-15. Penalties for offenses,
A.

Any violation of this article shall be a violation punishable in accordance with the
general penalty provisions under § 1-12 "Penalfies for offenses against Code

4918-2334-3974, V. 2

provisions" of the Village Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudsonj, with said
penalfies to be in addition to the revocation of a rental unit registration certificate
issued under the provisions of this article. In addition, the annual registration fee will
double thirty (30) days after the due date has passed and a second invoice for
payment and demand for renewal registration has been sentfirst-classmail to the
owner. In addition, a summons will be issued sixty (60) days after the due date has
passed and a fine in the amount of Seventy-Five Dollars and Zero Cents ($75.00)
will be imposed in addition to all outstanding registration fees and late charges.
Furthermore, a notice to vacate may be issued and all tenants ordered to vacate for
failure of the owner to register a rental unit thirty (30) days after the due date has
passed and upon written notice to the owner and occupants.
§ 186-16. Tenant accountability.
A.

With respect to the rental unit which the tenant occupies, controls or uses, the tenant
shall be responsible for the following:
(1) Occupancy limitations and the lawful use of a dwelling unit.
(2) Maintenance of the dwelling unit in a clean, safe and sanitary condition.
(3) Preventative and customary maintenance of plumbingfixtures,such as toilets,
sinks, faucets and showers, cooking and refrigeration equipment, appliances,
fixtures and facilities contained in the rental unit in a clean and sanitary
condition and exercising reasonable care in the operation and use thereof.
(4) Keeping points of ingress and egress to the rental unit free and clear. Common areas
shall be the responsibility of the Owner, though both parties shall not obstruct the
same
(5) Disposing of garbage and refuse in a sanitary manner and keeping the rental
unit free and clear of garbage, refuse and debris.
(6) Keeping domestic animals and pets in an appropriate manner and under control.

§ 186-17. Appeals.
A.

Any person with standing and who is affected by a notice or order which has been
issued under any provision of this article or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant
thereto may request and shall be granted an appellant hearing on the matter before
the Zoning Board of Appeals. Upon receipt of a written petition from such person,
which petition shall contain a brief statement ofthe grounds therefor, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall hold a hearing, at which time such person shall be given an
opportunity to show why such notice or order should be modified or withdrawn. No
such hearing shall be required unless the petition therefor shall have been filed
within five (5) business days after the date the notice or order was issued. Upon
receipt of such petition, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall set a time and place for
such hearing in due course. The hearing shall be subject to notice provisions for
hearings before the Zoning Board of Appeals. After such hearing, the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall issue findings and may sustain, modify or withdraw the notice or
order relating to the rental unit registration certificate. After any such hearing, in the
case of any notice or order suspending any permit required by this article, when such

4918-2334-3974, v. 2

B.

C.

notice or order has been sustained by the Zoning Board of Appeals, such suspended
permit shall be deemed to have been revoked. The proceedings at such hearing,
including the findings and decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals, shall be
reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public record with the Village Clerk.
Such record shall also include a copy of every notice or order issued in connection
with the matter. An applicant may appeal any decision ofthe Zoning Board of
Appeals by commencing and action pursuant to Article 78 ofthe Civil Practice Law
and Rules within thirty (30) days after the date the decision is file with the Village
Clerk.
No provision or requirement herein contained for a hearing shall in any way
whatsoever affect or impair the right of the Village to at any time bring such legal
proceedings, actions or prosecutions as otherwise or elsewhere are permitted by law
or ordinance.
Whenever the Village Engineer finds that an emergency exists which requires
immediate action to protect the public health, he/she may, without notice or hearing,
issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring that such
action be taken as he/she deems necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding
the other provisions of this article, such order shall be effective immediately. Any
person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith immediately but, upon
written petition to the Zoning Board of Appeals, shall be afforded a hearing as soon as
possible. After such hearing, depending upon his/her finding as to whether the
provisions of this article and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto have
been complied with, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall continue such order in effect or
modify or revoke it.

§ 186-18. Severability.
If a term, part or provision, section, subdivision or paragraph of this article shall be held
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective, in whole or in part, such determination shall not be
deemed to affect, impair or invalidate the remaining terms, parts, provisions, sections,
subdivisions and paragraphs.
§ 186-19. Rules and regulations, authority.
The Village Manager is authorized to promulgate and adopt forms, rules and regulations
consistent with the provisions of this article, and revisions thereto, for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this legislation.
§ 186-20. Remedies not exclusive.
The provisions of this article are not exclusive and are in addition to and do not supersede or
preempt other remedies or provisions of the Village, State, or Federal laws and the housing
code as may apply. Nothing in this law shall be construed as limiting the Village's rights to
enforce other local laws or laws of other authorities having jurisdiction, e.g. The New York
State Property Maintenance Code.

4918-2334-3974, v. 2

§ 186-21. Fees; penalties for offenses.
A.

B.

Fees. Fees for registration, inspection and renewal shall be established by resolution of
the Village Board and such amounts shall be added to the official fee schedule
maintained by the Village Clerk and may be amended thereafter in accordance with
Chapter 122 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Prior payment. All fees and penahies shall be paid prior to the issuance or renewal of
any rental unit registration certificate.

Section 3:
Except as otherwise provided herein, all other provisions of Chapter 186
of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall remain the same.
Section 4:
Effecfive Date: This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing
with the Secretary of State.

4918-2334-3974, v. 2

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number ^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 2 0 ^ ^

Croton-on-Hudson

Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

of

was duly passed by the
Q^toberOS

in accordance

with the applicable provisions of law.
2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascnbed as local law number
(County)(City){Town)(Village) of

of 20
^

on

of the

was duly passed by the

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
(County)(City)(Town)(Vi||age) of

of 20

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved){not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permtssive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

ofthe

™. was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

fWame of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
20
requesting such referendum was filed as of

^
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
20

in accordance with the

applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f (Rev 02/25)

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
the City of_

of 20

of

having submitted to referendum pursuant to

the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20

became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number
the County of

of 20

of

State of New York, having been submitted to

the electors at the General Election of November

20

pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of

section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local, law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph _ „

above.
Pauline

DiSanto

y^^^Pyjy

Clerk of the county/^fegislative body, CTfy, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designat»i3 by local legislative body
(SQBI)

October 16, 2025
(Date)

DOS-0239-a-f {Rev. 02-25)

page 3 of 3

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the time of
the vote).
Resolution #237-2025
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to create a rental registry for
landlords to protect the health and welfare of its residents who rent; and
WHEREAS, this recommendation arose from the Housing Task Force report
submitted to the Village Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2025 has been drafted for such
purposes; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on October 8, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2025 to amend Chapter 186, Rental Housing,
in the Village Code to create a rental registry for landlords, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 16 of 2025.
Dated: October 8, 2025

*

^ ^ ^
' P "V

^ Sjtf "J-" vt»
iJt «1>
m3m ^JM
' T ' " l i JS SS W Jp r p JJl f j f i Jp

^ «i» •mi. mi. ^
Jp rf^ ?p T» SJ"

State OfNew York

,1^ st^ .A. mjm EJ. «1| KII mlr «f» ^Ir
\ir
Jf»
Jp Jp ?p ?p
» p ^ »y"

Sp

^ *lw
^

)

ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 08 of October 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal ofike say-Villag^^fek 16*'' day of October 2025.

(Seal)


