---
title: "LL 10-2023: AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO REPEAL SECTION 135-8 OPEN B"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-07-17
chapters: Ch 167
status: current
---

LL 10-2023
Filed: 2023-07-17
Amends: Ch 167
AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO REPEAL SECTION 135-8 OPEN BURNING AND TO CREATE A NEW CHAPTER 167 ENTITLED OPEN FIRES

---
title: "Local Law 10-2023: AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO REPEAL SECTION 135-8 OPEN B"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-07-17
---

Local Law 10-2023
Filed: 2023-07-17
AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO REPEAL SECTION 135-8 OPEN BURNING AND TO CREATE A NEW CHAPTER 167 ENTITLED OPEN FIRES

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. d OS. state, ny. us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
^
FILED
•County • C i t y • T o w n
[XiViliage
SJfKTVi RECORDS
(Select one:)

JUL 1^2023

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.
A local law

of the year 2023

10

AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO
(Insert Title)'

REPEAL SECTION 135-8 OPEN BURNING AND TO CREATE A NEW CHAPTER 167
ENTITLED OPEN FIRES

Be it enacted by the ViHage Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislafve Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[XlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l {Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 10-2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO
REPEAL SECTION 135-8 OPEN BURNING AND TO CREATE A NEW CHAPTER 167
ENTITLED OPEN FIRES
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 135-8 ofthe Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson entitled "Outdoor
burning" is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Section Two. There is hereby added to the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson a new
Chapter 167 entitled "Open Fires" to read as follows:
§ 167-1 Title.
This chapter shall be entitled "Open Fires."
§ 167-2. Findings and purpose.
A. Open fires can pose a threat to life and property in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson if not
properly controlled. Said fires can cause air pollution, which can have a detrimental effect
on a citizen's health. Said fires can also spread and cause damage to other properties and
their owners and may result in the possible loss of life. It is the purpose of this chapter to
promote the health, comfort and convenience and general welfare of the persons and
property in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson by restricting open fires.
B. This chapter shall augment, and in no way conflict with or supersede, Title 6, Chapter 3,
Subchapter A, Part 215 of the New York Codes, Rules and Regulations and, where
applicable, shall regulate those areas specifically prescribed to the authority ofthe Village.
§ 167-3. Defmitions.
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
BONFIRE
An outdoor fire that has a horizontal dimension of more than three (3) feet in length, width or
diameter.
BURN BAN
The official New York State Brush Burning Ban, as established annually by the New York
Department of Environmental Conservation ("DEC").

CAMP FIRE
A camp fire or other outdoor fire less than three (3) feet in height, and less than three (3) feet in
length and width or diameter.
OPEN FIRE
Any outdoor fire or outdoor smoke producing process from which air contaminants are emitted
directly into the outdoor atmosphere. Open fires include burning in barrels or modified barrels.
Open fires do not include burning in outdoor furnaces or boilers that are used to heat buildings
when the devices are actually used for such purpose.
OUTDOOR FIREPLACE OR FIRE PIT
A commercially designed and manufacturedfi-eestanding,often portable, outdoorfireplaceor fire
pit sold specifically for outdoor recreafional burning and commonly made out of metal and used
for either clean wood or gas burning. This definifion shall also include recreational fire pits and
outdoor fireplaces built encompassing a wide variety of styles and functions, from a traditional
campfire pit to more elaborate constructions of materials such as steel, brick, stone and masonry.
PERSON
Any individual,firm,partnership, company, corporation, society, association or group.
RF:D F L A G WARNING

An official weather alert issued by the National Weather Service or successor agency.
REFUSE
Solid or liquid waste materials, including, but not limited to, rags, cartons, chemicals, paint, grease,
sludges, oils, any petroleum products other than legitimate home heating and cooking products,
construction materials, including, but not limited to, sheetrock, chip board, asphalt or fiberglass
shingles, or pressure-treated lumber, automobile parts, fires, dead animals or animal parts, metal
goods, including, but not limited to, refrigerators, stoves and like appliances, diapers, yard grass
clippings, leaves, paper and paper products, packaging materials, Styrofoam, mattresses, cigarette
filters, glass, plastic of any kind and furniture.
SMALL FIRE
An outdoor fire less than three (3) feet in height, and less than three (3) feet in length and width or
diameter.
UNTREATED WOOD
For the purposes of this chapter, any wood or lumber which is not chemically treated, coated,
stained, sealed, glued or otherwise adulterated. Untreated wood does not include such materials
as pressure treated lumber, plywood, particle board, fiberboard, and oriented strand board.

§ 167-4. Open Fires Prohibited.
A. Except as allowed in Section 167-5, no person shall bum, cause, suffer, allow or permit the
burning of any materials in an open fire.
§ 167-5. Restricted Open Fires Subject to Burn Permits.
A. Burning Permits Required. Notwithstanding Section 167-4 above, the following activities
are permitted subject to receipt of a valid Burning Permit issued by the Village Manager:
1. Ceremonial or celebratory bonfires where not otherwise prohibited by law,
provided that only untreated wood or other agricultural products are used as fuel
and the fire is not left unattended until extinguished.
B. Application and Issuance of Burning Permits.
1. An application for a burning permit shall be filed at least five working days prior
to the projected open fire and shall be accompanied by the required fee, as adopted
by the Village Board of Trustees.
2. The permit application shall contain such information as the Village Manager, after
consulfing the Village Fire Department, determines to be necessary to assure the
safety and security of person and property and the avoidance of air pollution or
other harm to the surrounding environment.
3. A burning permit may be suspended or revoked by the Village Manager, or if he is
not available by the Fire Chief, for failure to comply with its conditions, a violation
of law in connection with the burning or in the likely occurrence of dangerous
conditions.
4. Any burning permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall contain the condition that
the open fire shall be attended at all times with appropriate fire-extinguishing
equipment readily available.
C. Restrictions on the Issuance of Burning Permits. No burning permit shall be issued by the
Village Manager during an active Red Flag Warning or Burn Ban period.
§ 167-6. Exemptions.
Notwithstanding Secfions 167-4 and 167-5, the following activities and apparatus are expressly
permitted and exempt from the requirements of a permit:
A. Grilling or cooking using charcoal, propane, butane, untreated wood, or natural gas in
cooling or grilling appliances approved for such solid, liquid, or gas fuels.
B. Maple sugar arches and similar outdoor cooking devices when actually used for cooking
or processing food.
C. Small fires used for cooking and campfiresprovided that only charcoal or untreated wood
is used as fuel and the fire is not left unattended until exfinguished.

D. Burning in a stove, outdoorfireplace,firepit, or furnace, unless the material being burned
includes refiise as defined in this chapter.
E. The use of propane, butane, acetylene, natural gas, gasoline, diesel or kerosene in an
approved device intended for heating, construction or maintenance activities.
F. Small fires that are used to dispose of a flag or religious item, and small fires or other
smoke producing processes where not otherwise prohibited by law that are used in
connection with a religious ceremony and the fire is not left unattended until extinguished.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson discourages the above activities and apparatus during an active
Red Flag Waming or Burn Ban period.
§ 167-7. Penalties for Offenses.
A. Notwithstanding any conviction(s) for violation of state law, violation of this Chapter shall
constitute a violation of the Village Code, subject to penalties provided by § 1-12 of
Chapter 1. of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Code and revocation of any and all permits
issued pursuant to this Chapter. Any such violation will also be considered in determining
whether future permits under this Chapter should be issued to the same sponsor and/or
operator.
B. The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced by the Village Police Department of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Code Enforcement Officers of the Village of Croton-onHudson, or other officials designated by the Village Manager.
Section Three. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Four, Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 1 ^
the {County)(City)(Town){Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on Juf^e26
2023
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^-^
of
yyas duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town){Viilage) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
^, and was {approved){not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval)
by the
disappro\

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20
4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-! (Rev. 06/12}

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

€. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally a^^rted-trrthe-fa^nner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
C l e r ^ f the county fegiglative body, City, Town or Vijlage Clerk or
officer designated by locai legislative b o d y y ^ o i A r ^ *t>\ s^stpvT^
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

"1 H

7^2^

3

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #154-2023
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to update the section of the
Village Code related to outdoor burning, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 10 was opened and
closed on June 26, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2023 to repeal Section 135-8 of the Village
Code, Open Burning, and to create a new Chapter 167, entitled Open Fires, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law 10 of 2023.

Dated: June 26, 2023
State of New York

)
ss:

County of Westchester

)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 26**^ of June 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal ofthe said Village this 07^*^ day of July 2023.


