---
title: "LL 14-2022: TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-11-16
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 14-2022
Filed: 2022-11-16
Amends: 
TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ALLOW FOR TRANSIT ORIENTED MIXED USE AND MULTI FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN THE LI ZONING DISTRICT

---
title: "Local Law 14-2022: TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-11-16
---

Local Law 14-2022
Filed: 2022-11-16
TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ALLOW FOR TRANSIT ORIENTED MIXED USE AND MULTI FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN THE LI ZONING DISTRICT

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

( U s e this form to file a local law with the S e c r e t a r y of State.)
Text of law should be given a s amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter
•County DCity
(Select one:)

DTown

DVillage

NOV 1 S ZOZ?

of Croton-on-Hudson

D£PARl>ir:f,
Local L a w No.
A local law

of the y e a r 2022

14

TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ALLOW FOR TRANSIT ORIENTED MIXED U S E
AND MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN THE Ll ZONING DISTRICT

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name ofLegislative Body)

•County

DCity

DTown

DVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev.06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 14 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ALLOW FOR TRANSIT ORIENTED MIXED USE
AND MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN THE L I ZONING DISTRICT
Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1.
Section 230-18.C of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to
add nev^ subsection 230-18.C(9) to read as follows:
(9) Transit Oriented Development consisting of mixed use or multi-family residential buildings,
only on lots located fronting on Croton Point Avenue on the west side of Route 9 and within 1500 feet of
the Metro-North Croton-Harmon Train Station.
Section 2.
Section 230-18.D of the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to
read as follows:
D. The above uses except for shall comply with the area and bulk standards listed in § 230-37, including
the minimum lot size of three acres, except that the Village Board of Trustees may, by the issuance of a
special permit, allow a lot area of less than three acres but not less than one acre, and except that for a
Transit Oriented Development of mixed use or multi-family residential the minimum lot area shall be
10,000 square feet
Section 3.
Section 230-37 of the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall be amended to add
separate bulk requirements for Transit Oriented Development consisting of mixed use or multi-family
residential and to read as follows:
§ 230-37 Light Industrial LI District.
A. The bulk and parking regulations for the Light Industrial L I District for all uses other than Transit
Oriented Development of mixed use or multi-family residential shall be as follows: (See Article I I ,
Definitions; Article IV, District Use Regulations; Article VII, Supplementary Regulations; and Article
VIII, Off-Street Parking, Driveways and Loading Facilities.)
Minimum Required
Lot area (acres)
3
Lot width (feet)
200
Lot depth (feet)
200
Front yard (feet)
50
Rear yard (feet)
35
One side yard (feet)
30
Both side yards (feet)
80

Minimum Required
Any yard within 25 feet of residence district boundary
50
Waterfront setback from mean high-water line (feet)
100^
Off-street parking spaces per employee
1^
Maximum Permitted
Floor area ratio
0.50
Building height (stories)'^
3
Building height (feet)'^
40
Building height mtio
1/2 the distance to the nearest lot line*^

B. The bulk and parking regulations for the Light Industrial LI District for Transit Oriented Development
of mixed use or multi-family residential shall be as follows: (See Article II, Defmitions; Article IV,
District Use Regulations; Article VII, Supplementary Regulations; and Article VIII, Off-Street Parking,
Driveways and Loading Facilities.)
Minimum Required
Lot area (square feet)
Front yard (feet)
Rear yard (feet)
One side yard (feet)
Both side yards (feet)
Off-street parking per residential unit
Off-street parking for commercial use
Maximum Permitted
Floor area ratio
Building height (stories)
Bedrooms

10,000
d
d
d
d

1 space per unit^
1 space per 400 sf

1.20
5
Studio, 1- and 2-bedroom
units only

NOTES:
^ District waterfront setback requirement. For the express purpose of preserving the open and scenic
character of and the possibility of public access to the waterfront, a setback of 100 feet from the mean
high-water line shall be required for uses on lands fronting the Hudson River.
^ Parking space requirements are cumulative for all uses on one lot.
^ Building height requirements are subject to both story and foot limitations.
Setbacks for Transit Oriented Development of mixed use or multi-family residential shall be
determined by the Board ofTrustees as part of the Special Permit review based upon the best layout for
the particular lot.
^ The Board ofTrustees shall have the discretion to require additional parking for residential unhs.

Section 4. Section 230-42. IG ofthe Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson under Mixed Occupancy
shall be amended to read as follows:
G.
The provisions of this Section 230-42.1 shall not apply to properties located in the
Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay area which are permitted as set forth in Section 230-20.3B(3)
and defmed as "mixed use" therein, or to mixed occupancy buildings permitted in the Municipal Place
Gateway Overlay area as permitted in Section 230-20.36(4), or to properties located in the LI District
where Transit Oriented Development of mixed use or multi-family residential are permitted as set forth
in Section 230-18.C(9).
Section 5. Chapter 230 Attachment 4 (also referred to as D), Special Permit Schedule, under Light
Industrial Districts, is amended to add Transit Oriented Development of mixed use or multi-family
residential as a special permit use pursuant to Code Section 230-18.C(9) and under the jurisdiction of
the Board ofTrustees.
Section 6.
Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall
continue in full force and effect.
Section 7.
Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary of
State in accordance with section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. I f
the (County)(City)(Town)(Vlllage) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board ofTrustees
on November 01
(Name of Legisiative Body)
provisions of law.

of 2 0 ^
of
^^ly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as locai law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of
was duly passed by the
—
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed afterdisapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

3.

2 Q [ ^ | I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as iocal law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the appiicabie provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no vaiid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
^

on

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DQS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local lawconcerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (speclal)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local lawconcerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local iaw No
of 20
of
the County of
.State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original onfilaift-this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and;wdsfinally adjopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
,
J legislative body. City, Town orVillage Clerk or
ated by loca! legislative body ~^i<iSLJi^ P i S > r » T t ^
(Seal)

^

DOS-0239-f-t (Rev. 06/12)

-

Date:

P^9^

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote:
RESOLUTION FOR ADOPTION OF LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 12
OF 2022 TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ALLOW FOR TRANSIT ORIENTED MIXED USE AND MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN THE LI ZONING DISTRICT
Resolution #163-2022
WHEREAS since 2007, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson the Village has been considering ways to
encourage revitaiization and reduce commercial vacancies in the Harmon area, and is desirous of
introducing a mixed use/TOD concept to an area of the Village well-suited for such development, and
WHEREAS the Village Board solicited proposals from for consuhant plarming services for potential
zoning changes to and expansion of the Harrnon Gateway zoning district, and
WHEREAS on June 7, 2021, the Village Board retained AKRF of White Plains, New York to provide
such services, including the preparation of zoning text and map amendments for the Harmon/South
Riverside Gateway ("HSRG") Overlay, completion of a Full Environmental Assessment Form ("EAF")
Part 1, supplemental studies for the Village's environmental review, and attendance at various Village
meetings and public hearings, and
WHEREAS the scope of the original proposed work was expanded to include viewshed analyses, an
assessment of the feasibility of establishing a transit-oriented zoning district in the area, and visual profile
sections from residential areas, and
WHEREAS the results of AKRF's analyses were presented to the Village in a memorandum dated August
5, 2022, and
WHEREAS the memorandum recommended proposed revisions to the Zoning Code to expand the
Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area and encourage residential development in that area, and to modify
the regulations for the Light Industrial ("LI") zoning district in the area near the Metro-North CrotonHarmon Train Station to allow for transit-oriented residential development (collectively the "Proposed
Action"), and
WHEREAS the Village Board thereafter directed the preparation of Local Law Introductory No. 11 of
2022, and Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2022, incorporating the recommendations of the analyses
together with the Issuance of a Coastal Assessment Form ("CAF") in connection with the Proposed Action,
and
WHEREAS on September 6, 2022, the Village Board declared itself to be Lead Agency under SEQRA,
and circulated the proposed Local Laws, Full EAF, CAF, and analyses to various interested agencies
including the Village Planning Board, the Westchester County Plarming Board, and the Village Waterfront
Advisory Committee, and

-1-

WHEREAS on September 16, 2022, the Village Board received a favorable letter from the Westchester
County Planning Board and on September 23, 2022, received a memo from the Planning Board with
recommendations, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 11 of 2022
and Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2022, on September 19, 2022, which was continued to October 3,
2022, and closed, and
WHEREAS the Village Board discussed comments received at the public hearing as well as the
recommendations received from the Planning Board at subsequent meetings and requested that AKRF
provide further information and review regarding some of the comments and issues raised, and
WHEREAS after discussion at its October 17, 2022, meeting the Village Board has adopted a Negative
Declaration in connection with the Proposed Action and determined the Proposed Action is consistent
with the policies and conditions set forth in the Local Waterfront Revitaiization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has considered all comments received both verbally and in writing as part
of the public hearing and throughout this process, together with all other documents and correspondence
which are a part of the record on this matter,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 12 of 2022, to amend the provisions of the Zoning Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson to allow for transit-oriented mixed use and muhi-family residential buildings in the Light
Industrial Zoning District, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 14 of 2022.

Dated: November 1,2022
StateofNew York

)
ss;
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of
New Yorkj do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and
has been "diily-adopted at a regular meeting of the Board ofTrustees of said Village held on November
01^2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal ofthe said
Village this 04*'' d^y of November 2022.

XVillage Clerk
(Seal)
-2-


