---
title: "LL 1-2018: AMENDING CHAPTER 114 ENERGY CONSERVATION ARTICLE I ENERGIZE NY BENEFIT FINANCING"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2018-01-22
chapters: Ch 114
status: current
---

LL 1-2018
Filed: 2018-01-22
Amends: Ch 114
AMENDING CHAPTER 114 ENERGY CONSERVATION ARTICLE I ENERGIZE NY BENEFIT FINANCING PROGRAM TO REFLECT REVISIONS TO THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS

---
title: "Local Law 1-2018: AMENDING CHAPTER 114 ENERGY CONSERVATION ARTICLE I ENERGIZE NY BENEFIT FINANCING"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2018-01-22
---

Local Law 1-2018
Filed: 2018-01-22
AMENDING CHAPTER 114 ENERGY CONSERVATION ARTICLE I ENERGIZE NY BENEFIT FINANCING PROGRAM TO REFLECT REVISIONS TO THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS

New York State Department of State
Division ofCorporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County DCity

DTown

FILID
STATE RECORDS

DVillage

(Select one:)

o f Croton-on-Hudson

JAN 22 2018
DEPARTMENT OF i T A T i
of the year 2018

Local Law No. 1

A l o c a l l a w ^'^^"'^'"9 Chapter 114 Energy Conservation, Article I Energize NY Benefit Financing
(insert Titie)

program to reflect revisions to the General Municipal Law and program modifications.

Be it e n a c t e d b y t h e Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

DCounty DCity

DTown

DVillage

(Selectone:)

o f Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

SEE ATTACHED

(Ifadditional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

LOCALLAWNO. 1 of 2018
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 114 ENERGY CONSERVATION, ARTICLE
I ENERGIZE NY BENEFIT FINANCING PROGRAM TO REFLECT REVISIONS TO
THE GENERAL MUNCIPAL LAW AND PROGRAM MODIFICATIONS

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

' J
IV

• ''i:V'

SECTION 1. Chapter 114 Energy Conservation, Article I Energize NY Benefit Financing
Program is amended to read as follows:
Article I . Energize NY Benefit FinancingtProgram
§114-1. Legislative findings; intent and purpose; authority.
A. Itisthepolicyofboth the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the State of New York to
achieve energy efficiency and renewable energy goals, reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, mitigate the effect of global climate change, and advance a clean energy
economy. The Village finds that it can fulfill this policy by providing property assessed
clean energy financing to property owners for the installation of renewable energy
systems and energy efficiency measures. This chapter establishes a program that will
allow the Energy Improvement Corporation ("EIC"), a local development corporation,
acting on behalf of the Village, pursuant to the municipal agreement to be entered into
between the Village and EIC pursuant to Article 5-G of the New York General
Muncipal Law (the "Municipal Agreement"), to make funds available to qualified
property owners that will be repaid by such property owners through charges on the
real properties benefited by such funds, thereby fulfilling the purposes of this Article
and fulfilling an important public purpose.

, ^l^ '
-A/.:
. |f

B. The Village of Croton-on-Hudson is authorized to implement this Energize NY Benefit
Financing Program pursuant to the Municipal Home Rule Law and Article 5-L of the
New York General Municipal Law.
C. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Energize NY Benefit Financing
Program Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson."
'i':'. •
.irv:

§114-2. Definitions
For purposes of this article, and unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the context
requires, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
AUTHORITY
The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, as defined by
Subdivision two of § 1851 of the Public Authorities Law, or its successor.

''•'.t •

EIC
The Energy Improvement Corporation, a local development corporation, duly organized
under §1411 ofthe Not-For-Profit Corporation Law, authorized hereby on behalf of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson to implement the Energize NY Benefit Financing Program
by providing funds to qualified property owners (as defined in this article) and providing
for repayment of such funds from monies collected by the Village Tax Collecting Officer
as a charge to be levied on the real property and collected in the same manner and same
form as the Village taxes.
ENERGY AUDIT
A formal evaluation or "assessment" of the energy consumption of a permanent building
or structural improvement to real property, conducted by a contractor certified by the
Authority, or certified by a certifying entity approved by the Authority, for the purpose of
identifying appropriate energy efficiency improvements that could be made to the property.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT
Any renovation or retrofitting of a building to reduce energy consumption, such as window
and door replacement, lighting, caulking, weatherstripping, air sealing, insulation, and
heating and cooling system upgrades, and similar improvements, determined to be cost
effective pursuant to criteria established by the Authority, not including lighting measures
or household appliances that are not permanently fixed to real property.
QUALIFIED PROPERTY OWNER
An ovmer of residential or commercial real property located within the boundaries of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson that is determined to be eligible to participate in the Energize
NY Benefit Financing Program under the procedures for eligibility set forth under this
article.
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM
An energy generating system for the generation of electric or thermal energy, to be used
primarily at such property, except when the Qualified Property Ovmer is a commercial
entity in which case the system may be used for other properties in addition to the subject
property, by means of solar thermal, solar photovoltaic, wind, geothermal, anaerobic
digester gas-to-electricity systems, fuel cell technologies, or other renewable energy
technology approved by the Authority not including the combustion or pyrolysis of solid
waste.
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM FEASIBILITY STUDY
A written study, conducted by a contractor certified by the Authority, or certified by a
certifying entity approved by the Authority, for the purpose of determining the feasibility
of installing a renewable energy system.
§114-3. Estabhshment of an Energize NY Benefit Financing Program

A. An Energize NY Benefit Financing Program is hereby established by the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, whereby EIC, acting on its behalf pursuant to the Municipal
Agreement, may provide funds to Qualified Property Owners in accordance with the
procedures set forth junder this article, to finance the acquisition, construction and
installation of Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements and
the verification of the installation of such systems and improvements.
B. For funds provided to a Qualified Property Owner which is a commercial entity, notfor-profit organization, or entity other than an individual, EIC shall have the authority
to impose requiremerits on the maximum amount of funds to be provided, which may
consider factors including but not limited to the property value, projected savings,
project cost, and existing indebtedness secured by such property.
C. For financings made to a Qualified Property Owner who is an individual, the funds
provided shall not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% percent of the appraised value of the
real property where, the Renewable Energy Systems and/or Energy Efficiency
Improvements will be located, or (ii) the actual cost of installing the Renewable Energy
Systems and/or Energy Efficiency Improvements, including the costs of necessary
equipment, materials, and labor and the cost of verification of such systems and
improvements.

§114-4. Procedures for eligibility
A. Any property owner in the Village may submit an application to EIC on such forms as
have been prepared by EIC and made available to property owners on the website of
EIC and at the Village Glerk's offices.
B. Every application submitted by a property owner shall be reviewed by EIC acting on
behalf of the Village, which shall make a positive or negative determination on such
application based upon the criteria for making a financing enumerated in §114-5 ofthis
article. EIC may also request further information fi-om the property owner where
necessary to aid in its determination.
C. I f a positive determination on an application is made by EIC acting on behalf of the the
Village, the property owner shall be deemed a Qualified Property Owner and shall be
eligible to participate in the Energize NY Benefit Financing Program in accordance
with the procedure set forth under §114-6 of this article; provided that in no case shall
a property owner that has received funds from another municipal corporation for the
acquisition, construction and installation of Energy Efficiency Improvements and/or
Renewable Energy Systems be deemed a Qualified Property Owner.

§114-5. Application criteria

Upon the submission of an application, EIC acting on behalf of the Village, shall make a
positive or negative determination on such application based upon the following criteria
for the making of a financing:
A. The proposed Energy Efficiency Improvements and/or Renewable Energy Systems are
determined to be cost effective based on guidelines issued by the Authority;
B. The property ovmer may not be in bankruptcy and the property may not constitute
property subject to any pending bankruptcy proceeding;
C. The amount financed under the Energize NY Benefit Financing Program shall be repaid
over a term not to exceed the weighted average bf the useful life of Renewable Energy
Systems and Energy j Efficiency Improvements to be installed on the property as
determined by EIC; |
D. Sufficient funds are available from EIC to provide financing to the property ovmer;
E. The property ovmer isj current in payments on any existing mortgage;
F. The property ovmer is|current in payments on any existing real property taxes and has
been current on real property taxes for the previous three years; and
G. Such additional criteria, not inconsistent with the criteria set forth above, as the the
Village, or EIC acting on its behalf, may set from time to time.

§114-6. Opt-in, Energize NY Finance Agreement
A. A Qualified Property Ovmer may participate in the Energize NY Benefit Financing
Program through the Execution of an energize NY finance agreement made by and
between the Qualified Property Ovmer and EIC, acting on the behalf of the Village (the
"Energize NY Finance Agreement").
B. Upon execution of the Energize NY Finance Agreement, the Qualified Property Ovmer
shall be eligible to receive funds from EIC acting on behalf of Village, for the
acquisition, construction, and installation of qualifying Renewable Energy Systems and
Energy Efficiency Improvements, provided the requirements of §114-7 ofthis article
have been met.
;
C. The Energize NY Finiance Agreement shall include the terms and conditions of
repayment set forth under §114-8 of this article.

§ IT 4-7. Energy audit; renewable energy system feasibility study

A. No funds shall be;made available for Energy Efficiency Improvements unless
determined to be appropriate through an Energy Audit as defined in §114-2.
B. No funds shall be made available for a Renewable Energy System unless determined
to be feasible through a Renewable Energy System Feasibility Study as defined in
§114-2.
C. The cost of such Energy Audit and/or Renewable Energy System Feasibility Study
shall be borne solely by the property ovmer but may be included in the financed amount
if the work is approved.

§114-8. Terms and conditions of repayment
The Energize NY Finance Agreement between the Qualified Property Owner and EIC,
acting on behalf of the Village, shall set forth the terms and conditions of repayment in
accordance with the following:
A. The principal amount of the funds paid to the Qualified Property Owner hereunder,
together with the interest thereon, shall be paid by the property ovmer as a charge on
his or her property tax bill and shall be levied and collected at the same time and in the
same manner as Village property taxes, provided that such charge shall be separately
listed on the tax bill. ! The Village shall make payment to EIC or its designee in the
amount of all such separately listed charges within 30 days of the date the payment is
due to be made to Village.
B. The term of such repayment shall be determined at the time the Energize NY Finance
Agreement is executed by the property ovmer arid EIC, provided that in no case shall
the term exceed the' weighted average of the useful life of the systems and
improvements as determined by EIC acting on behalf of the Village.
C. The rate of interest for the charge shall be fixed by EIC„acting on behalf of the Village,
at the time the Energize NY Finance Agreement is executed by the property owner and
EIC.
;
D. The charge shall constitute a hen upon the real property benefited by the Energize NY
Benefit Financing Program as set forth in Article 5-L of the General Municipal Law
and shall run with the land. A transferee of title to the benefited real property shall be
required to pay any future installments, including interest thereon.

§114-9. Verification and report
A. EIC shall be responsible for verifying and reporting to the Village on the installation
and performance of Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements
financed by such Program.

B. The Village shall verify and report on the installation and performance of Renewable
Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements financed by the Energize NY
Benefit Financing Program in such form and manner as the Authority may establish.

SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any
reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission,
legislative body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force
and effect.

SECTIONS. EFFECTIVE DATE
This local law shall take effect immediately upon fiUng in the office of the New York
State Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
,
on January 2
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

20^

of 202r
of
was duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
•
'.
,
was duly passed by the
'.
:
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
•
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I, hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the

^
(Name of Legislative Body)

on

20

- and was (approved)(not approved)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

_ o n

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held o n .
20
4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

'

•

.
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of 20

.

•

of

was duly passed by the
20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective ChlefExecutive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
:
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held bn
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the.local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County bf
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20^
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office andthaUhe same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adqpt^diiffthe manneriRdicated in
paragraph ,
above.
ClepKof thef^unty ^gfslattve body. City, Town or Village Clerk or
fficer designated by ftscall^gislative body

(Seal)

Date:

/ / / ^ / /

^

s-J,'
\1

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 4 of 4

On motion of Trustee GALLELLI and seconded by Trustee ATTIAS, the following
resolution was adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York; with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton seeks to amend Chapter 114 Energy
Conservation, Article I Energize NY Benefit Financing Program to reflect
revisions to the General Municipal Law and program modifications; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2017 has been drafted to amend
Chapter 114 Energy Conservation, Article I; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 2, 2018,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2017 amending Chapter 114 Energy
Conservation, Article I, which upon adoption becomes Local Law 1 of 2018.
Dated: January 2, 2018
State of New York

]
ss:

County of Westchester

)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original onfilein my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
ofthe Board of Trustees ofsaid Village held on January 2, 2018.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
of the said Village this 16th day of January 2018.


