---
title: "LL 1-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-01-20
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 1-1998
Filed: 1998-01-20
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 1-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-01-20
---

Local Law 1-1998
Filed: 1998-01-20


T X ^ ^ J I"
LIOCUL LIUW

I7;/;*irr
r Ulflg

NEWYORKSTATEDEPARTMENTOFSTATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to flle a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as aniended. Do not include matler being eUminated and
italics or underlining lo indicate new matler.
eityx

^Of^f^f^
^ *^
^ \ ^
_

Croton on Hudson

,

Village
Local Law No.
Alocallaw

-

of the year 19--—

regulate telecommunications towers.

-^.^^^^^
- •"'

•Insert Tille)

Be It enacted by the

^^^L^.J?!.'^^^^^!^.

of the

(Neme oflegiiletive Body)

^

of

^L9?.?l.?.']..[^.4f!?^^^^^

as follows:

VlUage

Section 1. Purpose and Intent:
The purpose ofthis law is to establish predictable and balanced regulations for the siting
and screening of personal wireless services antennas, towers, and accessory structures in
order to accommodate the growUi of such systems within the ViUage while protecting the
public against any adverse impacts on aesthetic resources, avoiding potential damage to
adjacent propertiesfiromtower failure through structural standards and setback
requirements, and reduce the number of towers needed to serve the community by
maximizing the use of existing towers and buildings.
Section 2: Definitions:
Personal Wireless Services (PWS) - commercial mobile services, cellular services, PCS
services, unlicensed wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange access
services as defmed by Section 704 of the Federal Telecommunications Act.
Antenna - a device used to U-ansmit and/or receive radio or electromagnetic waves,
including but not limited to directional antennas, such as panels and microwave dishes
and omni-directional antennas, such as whip antennas.

(If addUional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and nQlniKlS^«B!eb))
(1)
P'^^'
DOS-239 (Rev. 7/91)

Tower - any ground, building or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof taller than 15 feet, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces, and masts,
built for the purpose of mounting an antenna, meteorological device, or similar apparatus
above grade.
Accessorv Structures - accessory buildings and structures, including base stations
designed and used to shelter equipment and/or to support PWS. The term accessory
structures does not include offices, long-term storage of vehicles or other equipment
storage, or broadcast studios.
Board ofTrustees - the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Section 3: Review Authority:
A.

This local law is enacted pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 of the Municipal
Home Rule Law.

B.

No anterma or tower shall hereafter be used, erected, changed or altered except
after obtaining a special use permit in conformity with this law.

C.

The Board ofTrustees is hereby authorized to review and approve, approve with
modifications or disapprove special use permits pursuant to this law. The Board
ofTrustees sliall have the authority to impose such reasonable conditions and
restrictions as are directly related to and incidental to the proposed anterma, tower,
or accessory structures.

Section 4: Location and Colocation Requirements:
Colocation Requirements - All towers erected, constructed, or located within the Village
shall comply with the following requirements:
A.

A proposal for a tower shall not be approved unless the Board ofTrustees finds
that the anteima platmed for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an
existing or approved tower or building within a two-mile radius (one mile search
radius for towers under 80 feet in height) of the proposed tower due to one or
more of the following reasons;
I

The antenna would exceed the structural capacity of the existing or
approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified professional
engineer, and the existing or approved tower caimot be reinforced,
modified, or replaced to accommodate the planned or equivalent antenna
at a reasonable cost.

2.

The antenna would cause interference materially impacting the usability of
other existing or planned antenna at the tower or building as documented
Celltwrlaw97.doc
page 2

by a qualified engineer and the interference cannot be prevented at a
reasonable cost.
3.

Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius cannot
accommodate the antenna at a height necessary to function reasonably as
documented by a qualified engineer.

4.

Other foreseen reasons that make it not feasible to locate the antenna upon
an existing or approved tower or building.

The applicant shall have the burden of proof to establish the existence of any of
the reasons set forth in " I " through "4" above.
B.

Any proposed tower shall be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all
respects, to accommodate both the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas,
whether using the same or different technologies, for at least three additional users
ifthe tower is over 100 feet in height or for at least one additional user ifthe
tower is over 60 feet in height. Towers must be designed to allow for future
rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept anteimas mounted at
varying heights.
The applicant shall submit to the Board ofTrustees a letter of intent committing
the applicant, and his/her successors in interest, to negotiate in good faith for
shared use ofthe proposed tower by other PWS providers in the future. The
issuance of a permit (assuming the tower is approved according to this section),
shall commit the new tower owner and his/her successors in interest to:
1.

Respond in a timely comprehensive manner to a request for information
fi'om a potential shared-use applicant and to provide information at the
request of any public body or authority that has received, or is exercising
jurisdiction over, an applicationfiroma potential shared-use party.

2.

Negotiate in good faith concerning future requests for shared use of the
new tower, by other PWS providers.

3.

Allow shared use of the new tower if another PWS provider agrees in
writing to pay charges.

4.

Make no more than a reasonable charge for shared use, based on generally
accepted accounting principles, no greater than prevailing charges for
similar shared uses in Westchester County. The charge may include but is
not limited to a pro rata share of the cost of site selection, planning, project
administration, land costs, site design, construction and maintenance
financing, retum on equity, and depreciation, and all of the costs of

Cclltwrlaw97.doc
page 3

adapting the tower or equipment to accommodate a shared user without
causing electromagnetic interference.
C.

In order to keep neighboring municipalities informed, and to facilitate the
possibility of directing that an existing tall structure or existing tower in a
neighboring municipality be considered for shared use, the Board ofTrustees shall
require that:
1.

An applicant who proposes a new tower shall notify in writing the
legislative body of each municipality that borders the Village and the
County Planning Board. Notification shall include the exact location of
the proposed tower, and a general description ofthe project including, but
not limited to the height of the tower and its capacity for future shared use.

2.

Documentation of this notification shall be submitted to the Board of
Trustees at the time of application.

D.

The Board ofTrustees may designate a preferred area or areas for the
siting of towers within the Village, and if no existing tower or tall building
in a neighboring community will obviate the need for a tower within the
Village and a designated preferred area is functionally and financially
adequate for applicant's service requirements and will not result in a
violation of Section 5-F-3 of this local law, then the applicant must use its
best efforts to locate its tower in such area.

£.

The applicant must establish that there is no other available area functionally andfinanciallyadequate for a tower location that will have less
visual or aesthetic impact.

Section 5: Performance Standards:
A. Proof of Non-interference from Antenna
Each application for installation of an antenna shall include either a preliminary or a
certified statement that the installation of the antenna, including reception and
transmission functions, will not interfere with the radio or television service enjoyed by
residential and nonresidential properties or with public safety telecommunications. In the
event only a preliminary statement is submitted with the application, afinalcertified
statement of non-interference will be provided and approved by the Village prior to the
issuance of a permit The statement shall be prepared by a professional engineer. In the
event thefimctioningof an antenna causes interference with such radio or television
service or pubUc safety telecommunications and continues for a period of thirty days after
notice to the owner ofthe tower and user of the antenna, the special pemiit shall become
null and void.

Ce I ltwrlaw97.doc
pagc 4

B. Antenna Safety
Antennas shall be subject to state and federal regulafions pertaining to non-ionizing
radiation and other health hazards related to such facilities. The owner ofthe antenna
shall submit to the Board ofTrustees evidence of compliance with the FCC standards on
a yearly basis. If new, more restrictive standards are adopted, the antennas shall be made
to comply or continued operations may be restricted or prohibited by the Board of
Trustees. The cost of verification of compliance shall be bome by the owner and operator
of the tower.
C. Tower Lighfing
Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not display any lights imless
such lighting is specifically required by the Federal Aviation Administrafion or other
i ederal or state authority for a particular tower. When incorporated into the approved
design ofthe tower, light fixtures used to illuminate ballfields,parking lots, or similar
areas may be attached to the tower.
D. Signs and Advertising on Towers
The use of any portions ofa tower for signs other than waming or equipment information
signs is prohibited. Any signs must be approved as to size and location by the Board of
Trustees.
E. Tower Height Limitations
No tower shall be higher than the minimum height necessary to achieve its objective.
Maximum height of a tower is limited to 150' above the ground upon which the antenna
is placed. The Board ofTrustees may allow towers up to 200' high if the applicant can
demonstrate that based upon the topography ofthe site and surrounding area, siting ofthe
antenna, antenna design, surrounding tree cover and structures and/or through the use of
screening, that off-site views ofthe tower will be minimized. The height limitation may
be waived by the Board ofTrustees when the antenna is mounted on an existing building
or structure or to accommodate colocafion.
F. Tower Building Requirements
1.

The use of guyed towers is prohibited. Towers must be self-supporting
without the use of wires, cables, beams or other means. The design should
ufilize an open framework or monopole configurafion. Permanent
platforms or structures exclusive of antennas that serve to increase off-site
visibility are prohibited.

Cclltwriaw97.doc
page 5

2.

The base of the tower shall occupy no more than 500 square feet and the
top dfthe tower shall be no larger than the base.

3.

In instances in which colocation cannot be accomplished, the minimum
spacing between tower locations is VA mile.

G. Access to Toweirs
A road and parking must be provided to assure adequate emergency and service access.
Maximimi uses of existing roads, public or private, shall be made.
H. Setbacks for Towers and Accessory Structures
Towers and all accessory structures shall conform with each of the following minimum
setback requirements:
1.

The minimum setbacks of the underlying zoning districts shall be met with
the exception of industrial zoning districts, where towers and accessory
structures may encroach into the rear setback area, provided that the rear
property line abuts another industrially zoned property and the tower does
not encroach upon any easements.

2.

Towers and accessory structures shall be set backfiromthe planned public
rights ofway as shown on the most recently adopted plan or map ofthe
Village showing such rights of way, by a minimum distance equal to one
half of the height of the tower including all antennas and attachments.

3.

A tower's setback may be reduced in the sole discretion of the Board of
Trustees to allow the integration of a tower into an existing or proposed
structure such as a church steeple, light pole, power line, or similar
structure.

I. Compliance with Subdivision Regulafions
Towers can be erected only on property that complies with the Village's subdivision
regulations.
J. Screening and Security of Towers and Accessory Structures
1.

Existing on-site vegetafion shall be preserved to the maximum extent
pracficable.

2.

The base ofthe tower and any accessory structures shall be landscaped.

Cdltwrlaw97.doc
page 6

3.

Towers and accessory stmctures shall be provided with security fencing to
prevent unauthorized entry.

4.

Lighting of accessory buildings and base areas of antennas may be
restricted by the Board ofTrustees.

K. Design of Antennas, Towers, and Accessory Structures
Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding environment
through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment, except in instances
where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities such as the Federal Aviation
Administration. Every antenna and tower shall be of neutral colors that are harmonious
with, and that blend with, the natural features, buildings and structures surrounding such
antenna and structure and, where appropriate, with the sky, provided however, that
directional or panel antenna and omni-directional or whip antennas located on the exterior
of a building that will also serve as an antenna tower shall be of colors that match, and
cause the antenna to blend with, the exterior of the building. Accessory structures will be
designed to be architecturally compatible with principal structures on the site.
L. Compliance with Other Laws:
Prior to issuance ofa special use permit to the tower owner and in the case of
subsequently added £intennas prior to their installation, the operator of every PWS
antenna shall submit to the Village Manager copies of all licenses and pennits required by
other agencies and governments with jurisdiction over the design, construction, location
and operation of such antenna and shall maintain such licenses and permits and provide
evidence of renewal or extension thereof when granted.
M. Assignment of Permit:
Every permit granting approval of an antenna or tower shall state that any assignment or
transfer of the permit or any rights thereunder may be made only with the approval ofthe
Board ofTrustees.
N. Review:
The permit shall be subject to review by the Board ofTrustees at five year intervals, to
determine whether the technology in the provision of PWS has changed such that the
necessity for the permit at the time ofits approval has been eliminated or modified, and
whether the permit should be modified or terminated as a result of any such change.

C:elUwT!iiw97.do\;
page 7

O. Fees:
The applicant for a special use permit under this local law shall pay to the Village a fee of
$250.00 with the filing of this application.
P. Escrow Account
The applicant shall provide funds to an escrow account, in an amount determined by the
Board ofTrustees, to allow the Village to retain such technical experts as may be
necessary to review the proposal, including, but not limited to, the review offinancialand
technical aspects of the proposal and of thefinancialand technical practicability of
altematives that may be available to the applicant; provided that nofimdsshall be
deposited until the scope of work is agreed upon among die applicant, the expert(s) and
the Board ofTrustees.
Q. Abandoned or Unused Towers:
Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers shall be removed as follows:
1.

All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be removed
within 90 days ofthe cessation of operations at the site unless a time
extension is approved by the Board ofTrustees. A copy of the
relevant portions ofa signed lease which requires the applicant to
remove the tower and associated facilities upon cessation of operations at
the site shall be submitted at the time of application; and any renewal or
substitute lease must contain such a provision which shall be submitted to
the Board ofTrustees.

2.

As a condifion of granfing any special use permit, the Board of Trustees
shall require the applicant to post a bond, in the amount determined by the
Board ofTrustees based on engineering estimates, to cover the costs of
removing and disposing of the tower, antenna and associated facilities. In
the event that a tower is not removed within 90 days of the cessation of
operations at a site, the tower and associated facilities may be removed by
the Village and the costs of removal assessed against the property, the
bond, or both.

3.

The owner of the tower shall, within 30 days of the event, notify the Board
ofTrustees in writing of the cessation of operafions at the site or the
removal or cessation of operations of any antenna located on the tower.

4.

Unused portions of towers above a manufactured coimection shall be
removed within 90 days of the time of antenna relocation. The
replacement of portions of a tower previously removed requires the
issuance of a new special use permit.

Celltwrlaw97.doc
page 8

R. Effect of Law on Existing Towers and Antennas:
Anteimas and towers in existence which do not conform to or comply with this law are
subject to the following provisions:
1.

Antennas and towers may continue in use for the purpose now used and as
now existing but may not be replaced or structurally altered without
complying in all respects with this law.

2.

If such antennas or towers are hereafter damaged or destroyed due to any
reason or cause whatsoever, the antenna or tower may be repaired and
restored to its former use, location, and physical dimensions, without
complying with this law, provided, however, that if the cost of repairing
the tower to the former use, physical dimensions, and location would be
ten percent or more of the cost of a new tower of like kind and quality,
then the tower may not be repaired or restored except in full compliance
with this law.

S. Procedural Requirements:
The Board ofTrustees shall conduct a public hearing within 62 days from the day an
application, with supporting material as required by this local law or olher applicable
law, is received. The Board shall issue a decision within 30 days after the hearing, except
that the time may be extended with the consent of the applicant or if necessary to complete the SEQRA process. Any denial for a permit under this law shall be in writing and
supported by substantial evidence.
Prior to or concurrent with the filing of a formal application for a special use permit, the
applicant shall submit information needed to meet the requirements of the New York
State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA).
T. Severability:
If any word, phrase, or part of this local law shall be declared unconstitufional, the same
shall be severed and separated from the remainder of this local law, and said remainder
shall continue in fiill force and effect.
U. Inconsistency:
Pursuant to New York Municipal Home Rule Law 22, the provisions of this local law are
intended to supersede any inconsistent provision of law.
V. Effective Date:
This law shall become effective immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.
Celltwrlaw97.doc
page 9

(Complete the certiflcation In the paragraph that applies to the flUng of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
1
QR
I hereby certify that lhe local law annexed herelo, designated as local law No.
----of 19 ^°
oflhe (6Si3(MKx)0Oity)(Tbwai)(V^^^
of ...CJCnton-onrJHlJdsnn
was duly passed by the
. BpArg.. of.Truste.e.S.
on —OaauarX-5. 199B:, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
{Name of Legislative Bodvi

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify ihal the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No.
--of 19
of lhe (Counly)(Cily)(Town)(Village) of
-was duly passed by the
—
on
—
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislaiive Body)

disapproval) by the

---

and was deemed duly adopted on

19----,

(Elective Chief Execuave Officer*)

in accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify thai the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No.
of 19
of the (Counly)(Cily)(Town)(Village) of
-was duly passed by the
on
19----, and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
IName ofLegulative Sody)

disapproval) by the

:

--

on

-

19----. Such local law was submitted

{Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (manda tory)(permiss ive) referendum, and received the affirmalive vote ofa majorily of
the qualified electors voting ihereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
—19---- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petition was flled requesting
referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
- of 19
of lhe (Counly)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
—
— on
19— , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
IName of Legislative Bodv)

disapproval) by the

- on --

1 9 - - . Such local law was subjeci lo

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*!

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19L..- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or Includes the chief executive offlcer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
-of 19
of the City of—
- having been submitled to referendum pureuant to lhe provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vole of a majority of the
qualified electore of such city voiing thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19-—,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed herelo, designated as local law No
-of 19
of the County of
—
Slale of New York, having been submitted lo the electore
at the General Election of November - - 19----, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of seclion 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmafive vote of a majority of the qualified eleclore of the cities of said counly as a unit and a majority of the qualified electore of the towns of said counly considered as a unil
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was gnally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph-.-^n?—above.
Oerk of the County legislative body. City, Town or Village Clerk
or officer designated by local legislative body

,o
(Seal)

Dale:

January 6, 1998
1 !

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Counsel, Ibwn Attomey, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YOI
COUNTYOF
^^stchester
I, the undereigned, hereby certify thai the foregoing local law contains the correct lext and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of lhe local law annexed herelo.
Signature

^

V i l l a a e Attorney ._

City

.

Village
Date
(3)

Croton-on-Hudson


