---
title: "LL 11-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-07-19
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 11-2001
Filed: 2001-07-19
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 11-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-07-19
---

Local Law 11-2001
Filed: 2001-07-19


T n n n i T nvi) f i ' j J i n a
JUUCUl l^UVV r U l t l ^

NEWYORKSTATEDEPARTMENTOFSTATE

41 STATESTREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to flle a local law with the Secretary of State.)

g-»^ of MBW YORK
OEPARW£^fr OF STATE
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being elimmated and do n t f u i e l C V j
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
' *

County
•etrr

1 9 son
croton on Hudson
" M ' S C E L L A N E O U S
Loca, L a . No

1 1 - . -

ofthe y . . A U m

& STATE RECORDS

entitled "Rezoning of Jane E. Lytle Arboretum to PRE-1

A local law

(insen Title}

District in accordance with Article XIV, Amendments and
Interpretation of Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Croton on Hudson
Village Code
«

* J1.

Be It enacted by the
County
«*
* r „f
'Hy

Board of Trustees
of the
(Same of Legislativt Body)

C':^^^..°n..Hudson

_

j^^,,^^^^

g^llla^

SECTION I. PURPOSE AND INTENT
The purpose ofthe Parks, Recreation, and Education (PRE) District is intended
to preserve natural resources, scenic beauty and other land and community
resources whose retention is necessary for the continued maintenance of the
quality of the environment. It is designated to provide for public parks;
recreational activities including all types of athletic activities; schools and other
educational facilities; nature preserves; bird and wildlife sanctuaries; and similar
uses.
As defined in Section 230-20, The PRE-1 district zoning provisions are intended
to ensure that no building or other structure, facility or premises or any part
thereof shall be constructed or used which is arranged, intended or designed to
be used, in whole or in part, for any uses except passive open space.
Zoning ofthe specified parcels in the Jane E. Lytle Arboretum as PRE-1 will
enhance and protect the valuable open space qualities ofthis property land and
fulfills a key policy recommendation ofthe Conservation Advisory Council and
the Waterfront Advisory Council. Designating this property as PRE-1 is the best
means to ensure the preservation of its natural state.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(1)

SECTION II. ZONING AMENDMENTS
A. The zoning ofthe parcels having the following Village tax map designations is
hereby changed to PRE-1.

1. 67.12-1-13
SECTION III. SEPARABILITY
The provisions ofthis local law are separable and ifany provision, clause,
sentence, subsection, word or part thereof is held illegal, invalid or
unconstitutional or inapplicable to any person or circumstance, such illegality,
invalidity, unconstitutionality, or inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions, clauses, sentences, subsections, words, or parts ofthis
local law or their application to other persons or circumstances. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent that this local law would have been adopted if
such illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional provision, clause, sentence, subsection,
word or part had not been included therein, and If such person or circumstance,
to which the local law or part thereof is held inapplicable, had been specifically
exempt therefrom.
SECTION IV. EFFECTIVE DATE
This local law shall take effect immediately upon its filing with the Secretary of
State.

(Complete the certiflcation in the paragraph that applies to the fliing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
l-f
of
of the (mMI^X<SH^)(;i«Mi)(Village) of
PjO-t9.Q._P.Q..HyP.s?^^^
was duly passed by the
.?PAt!i__QL-.Ir y_Stees__
on ..-7.1S
19^-?-Q9^n accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative

Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage afler disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
- of 19
ot the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duiy passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegistative

Body)

disapproval) by the

-

(Elective Chief Executive

-

and was deemed duly adopted on

19—-,

Officer*}

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Vdlage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19—-, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegistative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive

on

--- 19-— . Such local law was submitted

Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(pernussive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19^... , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(\^llage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegistative

Body)

disapproval) by the—
(Elecnve Chief Executive

on

19—. Such local law was subject to

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5, (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
ofthe City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors ofsuch city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities ofsaid county as a unit and a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe towns ofsaid county considered as a unit
voting at said ginerai eiection, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certlflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, an^ was/finely adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph—9!]?-—, above.
/ i f )
I K L/
^^MBb)ai(n^d8^<>^^^
or ofHcer designated by local legislative body

(Seal)

Village Clerk

7 /]t /0\

Date:.

(Certlflcation to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Viiiage Attorney or
other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW

COUNTT OF ^ k t l E S m
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature

Village Attorney
Title

Croton on Hudson
Village
Date:
(3)


