---
title: "LL 10-2020: A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 191, SEWERS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2020-12-14
chapters: Ch 191
status: current
---

LL 10-2020
Filed: 2020-12-14
Amends: Ch 191
A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 191, SEWERS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO UPDATE LANGUAGE REGARDING ON TIME PAYMENTS

---
title: "Local Law 10-2020: A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 191, SEWERS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2020-12-14
---

Local Law 10-2020
Filed: 2020-12-14
A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 191, SEWERS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO UPDATE LANGUAGE REGARDING ON TIME PAYMENTS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commerciai Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos,state, ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use t h i s f o r m t o file a local l a w w i t h t h e S e c r e t a r y o f State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
•County DCity DTown
lX]Village
STAT!: p.rtroRDS
(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

^ ^ ^020
DEPARTMENT OP STATE

Local L a w No.

o f t h e year 2020

10

A local l a w -^"^ENDING CHAPTER 191, SEWERS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(insert Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO UPDATE LANGUAGE REGARDING ON-TIME PAYMENTS

Be it e n a c t e d by the Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body}

DCounty

DCity

DTown

[^Village

(Seieel one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as f o l l o w s :

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev, 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

LOCAL LAW NO. 10 OF 2020
A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 191, SEWERS, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO UPDATE LANGUAGE REGARDING ONTIME PAYMENTS
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 191, Sewer, Section 191-32, Late payments, penalties, liens and collection,
is hereby amended as follows:
§191-32 Late payments, penalties, liens and collection.
A. Penalties for nonpayment of sewer rent charges. The following penalties are prescribed
for failure to pay sewer rent charges:
(1) No penalty shall be assessed if sewer rent charges are paid by the due date set forth
on the bill.
(2) If the sewer rent charge is not paid by the due date set forth on the bill, a penalty of
5% of the account due shall be assessed, and a further penally of 1% shall be added
for each succeeding month or any portion of a month in which the sewer rents are not
paid. The Village Treasurer shall cause, on the next succeeding April 15, any unpaid
sewer rents charges and penalties in excess of 60 days to be added to the Village tax
bills.
B. In accordance with General Municipal Law § 452, sanitary sewer rents shall constitute a
lien upon the premises served by the sanitary sewer system. This lien shall have priority
and be senior to every other lien with the exception of the lien of an existing tax,
assessment, or other lawful charge imposed by the state or of a political subdivision or
district thereof
C. Delinquent accounts, including sanitary sewer rents and penalties, shall be collected in a
manner provided for in General Municipal Law § 452, Subsection 4.
Section Two. Severability
Ifany section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion ofthis Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon adoption and filing in the office of the
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on December 7

20^2

of 20^^
of
^^as duly passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

(Name of Legislative Body)

provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was {approved){not approved)
(Name of Legislalive Body)
{repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer')

on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. 3nd was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) bythe

.

.

^

.on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer'}

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified eiectors voting thereon at the (general){special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as iocal law No.

^

the (County)(City)(Town)(\/illage) of

__of 20

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) bythe

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
2 0 _ _ _ _ . , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

' Elective Ctiief Executive Officer means or Includes the chilef executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or. If there
be none, thie ctiairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-M (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 o U

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36){37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
„ , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(Ifany other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally a^opted-ir^the manner indicated in
paragraph.
above.
C\er}i^i th^QOun^degjislative body. City, Town or yillaa£_Cl^t<_pr
officer designated by local legislative body i''»A-(AltT^ ^ V ^ o ^ ^ " ^ ^
(Seal) .

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

n4^

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye,
Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
Resolution #173-2020
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 191, Sewers, of the Code of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update language regarding on-time payments;
and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on DecetTiber 7, 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2020 to amend Chapter 191, Sewers, of the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update language regarding on-time
payinents, which upon adoption becomes Local LawNo. 10 of 2020.

Dated: December 7, 2020

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on December 7, 2020.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said Village this 10"^ day of December 2020.

Vijl^e Clerk
(Seal;) ^


