---
title: "LL 1-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-02-22
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 1-2000
Filed: 2000-02-22
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 1-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-02-22
---

Local Law 1-2000
Filed: 2000-02-22


Local L a w Filing

NEWYORKSTATEDEPARTMENTOFSTATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to flle a local law with the Secretary of ^ t e . ) .
Texl of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being elimiimed
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
^\

Ommty
XStty

f
.

Croton on Hudson

f

|L t
:

FEB 8 2 2000

Village
Local Law No.
Alocallaw

-1

of the year

M:^^

establishing a sidewalk improvement progi^am'^l^I
(Insert TitU)

.the _ y i _]_ lage _ a _n d _ other _ amen d me nts

Be it enacted by the

Board _pf_.Tr_ustee.S

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

^

of

as foiiows:

Village
Section 1. Sidewalk Improvement Program - Purpose.
The Board of Trustees has made a determination that many sidewalks located within the
Village are in significant need of repair. The Board of Trustees also recognizes that the
repair of sidewalks can be costly and that it Imposes a difficult economic hardship on the
homeowner to keep the sidewalks in good repair. The Board of Trustees has determined
that it is in the best interests of the Village to have properly maintained sidewalks and.
therefore, has decided to assist residents in maintaining the sidewalks to the extent
outlined within this Local Law.
Section 2. Administration.
Any owner of real property within the Village whose real property abuts on any public
street may be eligible for the following sidewalk replacement program hereby
established:
A. If the sidewalk Is in need of repair or replacement, the owner of said property
may make application to the Village requesting that the sidewalk be repaired
or replaced. A fee for the filing of said application may be established by the
Village Board of Trustees. Applications will be processed and acted upon at
the sole discretion of the Village.
B. The Village will pay fifty (50%) of the actual contract cost for the removal and
replacement of sidewalks to residents who apply during the period of June 1,
2000 to May 31. 2005 ofthe sidewalk replacement program and twenty-five
(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
(1)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(25%) percent of the actual contract cost to residents who apply during the
period of June 1, 2005 to May 31, 2007 Including materials and labor for the
repairs and reconstruction. The prevailing rate established by the Village will
be used in determining the total cost ofthe improvements.
The Village Engineer shall determine the nature and extent of sidewalk
repairs qualifying for reimbursement under this program. After review ofthe
application by the Village Engineer and the determination of repairs qualifying
for reimbursement, the Village Engineer will notify the applicant In writing of
the contribution to be made by the property owner. After receipt ofthe
property owner's share ofthe cost ofthe work, ail repairs and reconstruction
will be scheduled by the Village Engineer and performed by the contractor or
contractors selected by the Village in accordance with specifications provided
by the Village Engineer. All work shall be subject to inspection by the Village
Engineer or his designee during construction, and must be approved by the
Village Engineer before the Village authorizes payment to the contractor or
contractors.
The Village encourages pooling of neighborhoods interested in repairing or
replacing their sidewalks. The deadline date for pooling Is March 31 of each
year.
The Village will provide funding only to the extent that Village funds for the
sidewalk improvement program are available, and such availability will be at
the sole discretion ofthe Board of Trustees. Failure ofthe Board of Trustees
to budget funds for repair of sidewalks shall in no way excuse any property
owner from properly maintaining, repairing, constructing or replacing
sidewalks in accordance with Article IV of Chapter 197 of the Croton-onHudson Village Code.

F. After the seven (7) year period of the sidewalk improvement program has
elapsed all property owners who have not applied for participation in the
program whose real property abuts on any public street shall be responsible
for undertaking all repairs or improvements at their own expense without any
Village subsidy in accordance with the provisions of Section 197-24 of the
Village Code and further the Village will carry out Its responsibilities in
accordance with Sections 197-25, 197-26 and 197-27 ofthe Village Code.
Section 3. Liability- In the event that personal injury or property damage shall result from
the failure of any owner or occupant to comply with the provisions of Section 197-15 and
Section 197-24 ofthe Village Code requiring maintenance, repair, and snow and ice
removal, the owner and the occupant shall be liable to all persons injured, or whose
property is damaged directly, or indirectly, and shall be liable to the Village to the extent
that said Village is required by law or by any Court to respond in damages to any Injured
party.
Section 4. Section 197-15.B. is hereby amended to read as follows: Every person
neglecting, falling or refusing to comply with this section shall pay a penalty as provided
in § 1-12 of Chapter 1, General Provisions, for each day of such neglect, failure or

refusal, and every person who shall refuse or neglect to clean said walk, after receiving
six hours' notice in writing from a police officer, the Village Code Enforcement Officer,
the Director of Public Works, the Village Manager, or their designees, of said village to
do so, shall pay, in addition, the cost of cleaning said walk by the village, the cost
thereof, after being duly audited, to be added to said penalty per day and recovered and
collected at the same time and manner as said penalty is collected.
Section 5. This local law shall become effective Immediately upon filing with the
Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify lhat the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
J
of iJQicZQOO
of the ((S»9)}H^^((2ky)(3iawo^(Village) of
ClmL0Jl.,0Jl..t{JJ£l5.Qn
was duly passed by the
Bpjrcl. of . I r ,ustees.
on
W 2Q9fii accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.
(Name ofLegislative Body)

2. (Passage by local iegisiative body with approvai, no disapprovai or repassage after disapprovai
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local k w No
of 19
oflhe (Counly)(Cily)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative Body)

disapproval) by the

-

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Finai adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed herelo, designaled as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(Cily)(Town)(\^llage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

19-— . Such local law was submilled

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified eleclors voiing thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19.— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andfinaladoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify lhat the local law annexed herelo, designated as local law No
of 19
oflhe (Counly)(City)(Town)(ViHttgc) of —
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative Body)

disapproval) by the

on

19 — . Such local law was subject lo

(Elecnve Chief Executive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petilion requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19—- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or Includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county iegisiative body, the mayor of a city or viiiage, or
the supervisor ofa town where such officer is vested with tiie power to approve or veto iocal laws or ordinances.
(2)


