---
title: "LL 11-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 122 FEES, CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC AND CHAPTER 225, WATER"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-07-17
chapters: Ch 122, Ch 215, Ch 225
status: current
---

LL 11-2025
Filed: 2025-07-17
Amends: Ch 122, Ch 215, Ch 225
TO AMEND CHAPTER 122 FEES, CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC AND CHAPTER 225, WATERFRONT REVITALIZATION, TO UPDATE VARIOUS  PROVISIONS

---
title: "Local Law 11-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 122 FEES, CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC AND CHAPTER 225, WATER"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-07-17
---

Local Law 11-2025
Filed: 2025-07-17
TO AMEND CHAPTER 122 FEES, CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC AND CHAPTER 225, WATERFRONT REVITALIZATION, TO UPDATE VARIOUS  PROVISIONS

New York State
KSK,
YORK

D e D a r t m e n t o f S t a t e
"
»»•
-^l-nvc

Department of state
DIVISION O F CORPORATIONS,

STATE

Corporations, State Records & UCC

STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL C O D E
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
1^1
L o c a l L a w Title: ^ , ^ ^ ^ ^

Of the year 20 ^

, A W T O A M F M P C H A P T F R -197 F F F S

HHAPTFR

VFHini F

TRAFFIH

AND CHAPTER 225> WATFRFROMT REVITALIZATION. TO UPDATE VARIOUS

Be it enacted by the ^Q^''^

Trustees

oftj^e

(Name of Legislative Body)

•

County

•

City

•

Town

0 Village

(Select one)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only
FILED
STATE RECORDS

JUL 1 7 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LOCAL LAWS INDEX NUMBER _
OF THE YEAR 20

Department of State Local Law Index Number:

/)

of the year 20 iR3

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)
DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
i hereby certify tiiat the local law annexed hereto ascribed as locai law number J J

of 20

the (County)(City){Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
-

on

of

^as duly passed by the
July 09
^

o„ 25
20

.
in accordance

(Name of Legislative Body)

with the appiicabie provisions of law.
2. (Passage by iocal legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I iiereby certify that the locai law annexed hereto, ascribed as iocal law number
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

^

of 20

.

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

on

20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of iaw.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as iocal law number

of 20

(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the

.

^on

_^

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer")

20
Such locai law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annuai) election held on
20

in accordance with the appiicabie provisions of iaw.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the iocal iaw annexed hereto, ascribed as locai law number
(County){City)(Town)(Viilege) of

of 20

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")

20
requesting such referendum was filed as of

. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
20

in accordance with the

applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f (Rev. 02/25)

p^g^ 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local iaw annexed hereto, ascribed as locai law number
the City of

of 20

of

having submitted to referendum pursuant to

the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote ofa
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (specie I )(g en era I) election held on
:

20

became operative.

6. (County iocal law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the locai law annexed thereto, ascribed as iocal law number.
the County of

of 20

of

State of New York, having been submitted to

the electors at the General Election of November

20

pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of

section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote o f a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local iaw, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph

above.
Pauline DiSanto
Clerit of the county l^islative bbq^^^y, Town or Village_Clerk or
officer designated^y local legislative body
'
^

(Seal)

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

J"ly
(Date)

202i

page 3 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 11 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 122, FEES, CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE &
TRAFFIC, AND CHAPTER 225, WATERFRONT REVITALIZATION, TO UPDATE
VARIOUS PROVISIONS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 122-3 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to read as follows:
§ 122-3. Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
BOARD — The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
FEE — Any lawful charge pursuant to the General Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
including but not limited to all admission charges, membership fees, dues, permit and special
permit fees, license fees or any charge or disbursement required by a duly constituted board,
commission or committee of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Section Two. Section 215-45 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to read as follows:
§ 215-45. Penalties for offenses.
Every person convicted of a traffic infraction for a violation of any provision of this chapter which
is not a violation of any provision of the Vehicle and Traffic Law of the State of New York shall,
for a first conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than $150 or by imprisoimient for
not more than 15 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment; for a second such conviction within
18 months thereafter, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300 or by
imprisonment for not more than 45 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment; upon a third or
subsequent conviction within 18 months after the first conviction, such person shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $450 or by imprisorunent for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
Section Three. Section 225-8 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby added as
follows:
§ 225-8. Penalties for offenses.
A. A person who violates any of the provisions of or who fails to comply with any condition
imposed by this chapter shall have committed a violation, subject to penalties as provided

by § 1-12 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson. For the purpose of conferring
jurisdiction upon courts and judicial officers, each week of continuing violation shall
constitute a separate additional violation.
B, The Village Attorney is authorized and directed to institute any and all actions and
proceedings necessary to enforce this chapter. Any civil penalty shall be in addition to and
not in lieu of any criminal prosecution and penalty.
Section Four. Severability
If any secfion, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in fiill force and effect.
Section Five. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately uponfilingin the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

On mofion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #170-2025
WHEREAS various definitions and fines in Chapter 122, Fees, Chapter 215, Vehicle
& Traffic, and Chapter 225, Waterfront Revitalization, have been recommended to be
updated, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 9 of 2025, which has been drafi;ed for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2025 was opened
and closed on July 9, 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has determined that the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 9 of 2025 to be a Type I I action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act, requiring no environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2025 to update various definitions and fines
in Chapter 122, Fees, Chapter 215, Vehicle & Traffic, and Chapter 225, Waterfi-ont
Revitalization, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 11 of 2025.
Dated: July 9, 2025
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I , Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
of the Board of Tmstees of said Village held on the 09 of July, 2025,
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
of the said Wag2 this-IO* day of July, 2025.


