---
title: "LL 16-2023: TO REQUIRE SOURCE SEPARATION AND SEGREGATION OF RECYCLABLE OR REUSEABLE MATERIAL"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-09-05
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 16-2023
Filed: 2023-09-05
Amends: 
TO REQUIRE SOURCE SEPARATION AND SEGREGATION OF RECYCLABLE OR REUSEABLE MATERIALS

---
title: "Local Law 16-2023: TO REQUIRE SOURCE SEPARATION AND SEGREGATION OF RECYCLABLE OR REUSEABLE MATERIAL"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-09-05
---

Local Law 16-2023
Filed: 2023-09-05
TO REQUIRE SOURCE SEPARATION AND SEGREGATION OF RECYCLABLE OR REUSEABLE MATERIALS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. dos. state. ny, u s/co rps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

nCity

DTown

[XlVillage

STATE RECORDS

(Selectone.)

n. r-

of CrCon-on-Hudson

^ E P 0 5 2023

Local Law No.

16

of the year 2023

A local law

REQUIRE SOURCE SEPARATION AND SEGREGATION OF
(Insert Title)'

RECYCLABLE OR REUSABLE MATERIALS

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

DTown

[XlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 16 OF 2023
A LOCAL LAW TO REQUIRE SOURCE SEPARATION AND SEGREGATION OF
R E C Y C L A B L E OR REUSABLE MATERIALS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. That a new Chapter 185 entitled "Recycling" is hereby added to the Village Code of
Croton-on-Hudson to read as follows;
§185-L Purpose.
It is the purpose of this chapter to comply with § 120-aa of the General Municipal Law of the State
of New York and with Chapter 825, entitled "Westchester County Source Sepai'ation Law," of the
Laws of Westchester County, as they pertain to recyclable materials. In furtherance of said
purpose, Chapter 825 of the Laws of Westchester County is hereby incorporated by reference into
the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
§185-2. Definitions.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms when used in this chapter shall have the
following meanings:
ALUMINUM CANS
Containers fabricated of aluminum and commonly used for soda, beer or other beverages.
COMMINGLED
The mixing together of the following recyclables: glass bottles, plastic bottles, metal and
aluminum cans, gable top containers, and other like materials should they be deemed a
recyclable product in the future.
CORRUGATED CARDBOARD
Non-wax-coated corrugated cardboard containers and boxes.
COUNTY LAW
Chapter 825, entitled "Westchester County Source Separation Law," of the Laws of
Westchester County, as they pertain to recyclable materials.
GABLE TOP CONTAINERS
Containers including polycoated and paper board like Tetra Paks or aseptic and gable top
cartons, including all milk, cream, and milk substitute beverage containers.
GLASS BOTTLES
Transparent or translucent jars, bottles and containers which are primarily used for
packaging and bottling of various products.
METAL CANS
Containers fabricated primarily of metal, including aluminum cans.
MUNICIPALLY C O L L E C T E D SOLID WASTE

Household waste and other waste materials routinely produced in a household and used
household items that are municipally collected whether by public employees or contractors
working for the municipality. This material does not include other materials defined as
bulky metals, bulky wastes, construction and demolition debris, commingled recyclables
and yard organics.
NON-RESIDENTIAL WASTE GENERATOR
All waste generators other than residential waste generators as defined herein.
PAPER/CARDBOARD
Newspapers, glossy inserts, phone books, magazines, junk mail, brown paper bags, and
corrugated and grey cardboard boxes. This term excludes waxed cardboard, including gable
top containers, plastic and Styrofoam packing materials, cardboard with any trace of food,
paperbacks or hardcover books.
PLASTIC BOTTLES/CONTAINERS
Containers made from plastic that are used for carrying or storing various products or
liquids and that are marked with the recycling logo and identifying numbers (1 through 7).

RECYCLABLES
Glass bottles, metal and aluminum cans, paper/cardboard, gable top containers, and plastic
bottles and containers, as defined in this chapter.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE GENERATOR
Any person residing in a single-family or multifamily dwelling in the Village of Croton-onHudson who produces waste from household functions such as cooking, cleaning, etc.
WASTE GENERATOR
Any person who produces or is responsible for solid waste or recyclables in the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson requiring disposal.
§ 185-3. Establishment of program.
There is hereby established a program for the collection of paper, glass bottles, aluminum and
metal cans, plastic bottles and gable top containers for the purpose of recycling. The program shall
be under the direction of the Village Manager, who shall be authorized to establish and promulgate
rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
§ 185-4. Source separation required.
All persons who are owners, tenants or occupants of any commercial, residential or industrial
building shall separate out from municipally or privately collected solid waste left for collection,
ail paper, glass bottles, aluminum and metal cans, plastic bottles and gable top containers.
Separation will be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, county law and those rules
and regulations promulgated by the Village Manager.
§ 185-5. Collection schedule.
Materials shall be collected curbside once per week as per an established schedule. Recyclables
shall be placed curbside not before 5:00 p.m. on the day preceding collection nor later than 7:00
a.m. on the scheduled collection date.

§ 185-6. Right not to collect.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson or any private carter shall not collect any solid waste or
recyclable which has not been separated and secured pursuant to the provisions of this county law
or the rules and regulations so promulgated.
§ 185-7. Nonresidential waste generator plans.
All nonresidential waste generators who own a building or buildings commonly containing more
than 100 employees, patients or students during a 24-hour period in the Village of Croton-onHudson shall comply with the regulations outlined in the county law regarding nonresidential
waste generator plans.
§ 185-8. Penalties for offenses.
Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction, be
subject to the penalties provided by § 1-12 ofChapter 1 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Code.
§ 185-9. Construal of provisions.
To the extent that the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with or different fi-om the
provisions of Chapter
135, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Locai Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. I z
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on August 28
20^
(Name ofLegislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 2 0 ^ ^
of
^^^y passed by the
. in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
on .

20|

I

I, In accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(Clty)(Town)(ViIlage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20..^

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20_

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if ttiere
be none, the chairperson of the county legislalive body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative,

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of.
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November „
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was firially^a^optedlrTt^e manner indicated in
paragraph.
above.
Clgpt<^of the couniy legjklative body7City, Town or Village Clerk o f
^officer designatedcylocai legtelative body
' ' ' ^ c * o U ' / \ - t b''^^'=<*^^
(Seal) -

i

DOS-0239-f-! (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

X / ^ j

/'7^2^~)

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #189-2023
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to add a new Chapter 185
entitled "Recycling" to the Village Code to codify the source separation and
segregation of recyclable materials, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is considering the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 16 of 2023, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 16 of2023 was opened
and closed on August 28, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2023, codifying the source separation and
segregation of recyclable materials, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No.
16 of2023.
Dated: August 28,2023
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
1, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New
York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been
duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 28"" of August 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village
this 29"' day-j3f August.


