---
title: "LL 11-2021: TO AMEND CHAPTER 127 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, FIREWORKS, "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2021-10-28
chapters: Ch 127
status: current
---

LL 11-2021
Filed: 2021-10-28
Amends: Ch 127
TO AMEND CHAPTER 127 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, FIREWORKS, BY CODIFYING STATE PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS DISPLAYS

---
title: "Local Law 11-2021: TO AMEND CHAPTER 127 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, FIREWORKS, "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2021-10-28
---

Local Law 11-2021
Filed: 2021-10-28
TO AMEND CHAPTER 127 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, FIREWORKS, BY CODIFYING STATE PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS DISPLAYS

New York State Department of State
Division ofCorporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
viAvw.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or undedining to indicate new matter.
•County

nCity

QTown

(XlVillage

FILED
STATE RECORDS

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

OPT *3 a onr,.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Local LawNo.

of the year 2021

11

A local law '^^ ^^^END CHAPTER 127 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON(Insert Title)

HUDSON , FIREWORKS, BY CODIFYING STATE PERMITTING
REQUlREMEfvlTS FOR FIREWORKS DISPLAYS

Be it enacted by the V^age Board ofTrustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

QTown

[XlVillage

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev, 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 11 OF 2021
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 127 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, FIREWORKS, BY CODIFYING STATE PERMITTING
REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS DISPLAYS
Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1: Section 127-1 ofthe Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to
read as follows:
§ 127.1 Findings and purpose.
A.

Pursuant to the New York State Penal Law, § 405.00, private individuals, as well as
organizations and municipalities, may employ professional pyrotechnics services for
fireworks displays. The Village Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
(hereinafter, the "Village") hereby fmds that such activities are extremely dangerous, as
they incorporate the use of highly explosive materials and other devices which pose a
threat to the health and safety of the Village and its residents. The Board therefore finds it
necessary to enact provisions benefiting the health, safety and general welfare of the
Village and its residents with respect to the storage and use of fireworks within the
Village's jurisdiction.

B.

This Chapter shall augment, and in no way conflict with or supersede, §§ 405.00 and
270.00 of the New York State Penal Law and, where applicable, shall regulate those
areas specifically prescribed to the authority of the Village.

Section 2: Section 127-2 of the code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to
read as follows:
§ 127-2 Definitions.
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
FIREWORKS
As defined in § 270.00 of the New York State Penal Law (as amended).
OPERATOR
A pyrotechnic or pyroteclmic company certified by the State ofNew York, pursuant to
the New York State General Business Law and Article 16 of the New York State Labor
Law (as amended), in the handling, storage and discharge of fireworks.
PERMIT

For purposes of this Chapter, a permit issued by the permitting authority for the public
display and discharge of fireworks in accordance with the requirements set forth by this
Chapter and as provided for in the application materials provided by the Village.
PERMITTING AUTHORITY
For purposes of this Chapter, the Village Police Chief, who shall review applications for
fireworks displays and, in consultation with the Village Fire Chief, issue or deny permits
in connection therewith.
SPONSOR
For purposes of this Chapter, any person, company, municipality, fair association, or
other legal entity applying for a permit for the discharge and display of fireworks.
Section 3: Chapter 127 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to add
new sections 127-3 through 127-8, to read as follows:
§ 127-3 General restrictions; permit required.
A.

No storage of fireworks, or public or private fireworks display, shall be conducted in the
Village unless a valid permit for such storage and/or display is first issued by the permitting
authority pursuant to this Chapter.

B.

No person or other legal entity shall conduct an indoor fireworks display in the Village.

C.

No public fireworks display shall be conducted in the Village on a lot containing a twofamily or multiunit dwelling as its principal use.

D.

A permit issued pursuant to this Chapter shall not be transferable to any other party.

§ 127-4 Application procedures.
A.

Information required; filing deadline; fee.
(1)

The application for a permit pursuant to this Chapter shall contain at least the
following information, and supporting documents, on a form provided by the
Village:
(a)

The name of the sponsor and the names of the operators who shall possess
valid certificates of competence as pyrotechnicians as required under the
New York State General Business Law and Article 16 of the New York
State Labor Law. The permit application shall further contain a verified
statement from the sponsor identifying the operators, who are authorized to
fire the display, including their certificate numbers, and that such operators
possess valid certificates of competence as pyrotechnicians.

(b)

The date and time of day at which the display is to be held;

(2)

B.

(c)

The exact location planned for the display;

(d)

The number and kind of fireworks to be discharged;

(e)

The manner and place of storage of the fireworks prior to the display;

(f)

A diagram of the grounds on which the display is to be held showing the
point at which the fireworks are to be discharged, the location of all
buildings, highways and other lines of communication, the lines behind
which the audience will be restrained and the location of all nearby trees,
telegraph or telephone lines or other overhead obstructions; and

(g)

Such other information as the permitting authority prescribes as necessary
for the evaluation and determination of a fireworks permit application.

Such application shall be filed with the permitting authority no less than 30 calendar
days before the date on which the proposed fireworks display is to take place. Such
application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee as set forth in the Village
fee schedule on file in the Village Clerk's office.

Bond or insurance.
(1)

Before granting and issuing a permit for the display offireworksas herein provided,
the permitting authority shall require an adequate bond from the sponsor (unless it
is a state entity, or a city, town or village), in a sum to be fixed by the permitting
authority, which, however, shall not be less than $1,000,000, conditioned for the
payment of all damages which may be caused to a person, persons, or to property
by reason ofthe display so permitted and arising from any acts or omissions ofthe
sponsor, operator, or any agent, employee, contractor, or subcontractor thereof A
certificate evidencing the purchase of the bond shall be provided to the Village prior
to the date of any proposed fireworks display.

(2)

The Village may accept, in lieu of such bond, an indemnity insurance policy with
liability coverage and indemnity protection equivalent to the terms and conditions
upon which such bond would be predicated and for the purposes provided in this
section. Such indemnity insurance policy shall name the Village of Croton-onHudson as an additional insured. A certificate evidencing the policy shall be
submitted to the Village prior to the date of any proposed fireworks display.

C.

Upon receipt of an application for a fireworks permit, the permitting authority shall review
the application contents, consult with the Village Fire Chief, and determine whether such
application is in conformity with the requirements of this Chapter. The permitting authority
shall not unreasonably withhold granting of a permit.

D.

Denial of an application for a permit shall be in writing, addressed to the sponsor of the
permit, setting forth the reasons for such denial.

§ 127-5 Revocation of permit.

If the permitting authority discovers that the sponsor has provided intentionally misleading or false
information in the application materials, or that the sponsor or operator has otherwise violated any
provision of this Chapter, he/she may deny or revoke the permit prior to the date ofthe proposed
fireworks display.
§ 127-6 Additional requirements.
A.

Pursuant to New York State Penal Law § 405.00, there shall be at least two slate-certified
operators constantly on duty during the discharge of the fireworks display. In addition, at
least two approved type fire extinguishers shall be kept within the actual display area,
which must be as widely separated as possible.

B.

Notice of the issuance of afireworkspennit shall be mailed not less than seven days prior
to the date of the fireworks display to all owners of property abutting and within 200 feet
of the property for which such application is made at the expense of the applicant. In
addition, a legal notice shall be placed in the Village's official newspaper, at the expense
of the applicant, and the Village shall cause to be published a notice of the fireworks display
on the Village's communication channels, including, but not limited to, the Village
website, cable access channel and social media accounts.

C.

The Village reserves the right to have a representative(s) of the permitting authorily, the
Village Fire Department, or other appropriate Village representative(s) attend any
fireworks display for which a permit is issued.

D.

The sponsor and operator shall have all permits available and ready for inspection on site
before and during the execution of the fireworks display.

E.

No smoking shall be permitted within 200 feet of any area where fireworks or other related
materials are being temporarily stored.

F.

All debris resulting from the fireworks display shall be promptly collected and properly
disposed of by the operator in the manner prescribed by slate law.

§ 127-7 Penalties for offenses.
A.

Any person, legal entity, sponsor, or operator committing an offense against this chapter
shall be subject lo the penalties of Article 270 of the New York Slate Penal Law, and §
405.05 of the New York Slale Penal Law concerning seizure of fireworks.

B.

Notwithstanding any conviction(s) for vioialion of slate law, violation of this Chapter shall
constitute a violation of the Village Code, subject to a fine of $250 and revocafion of any
and all permits issued pursuant lo this Chapter. Any such violation will also be considered
in determining whether future permits under this Chapter should be issued to the same
sponsor and/or operator.

C.

The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced by the Village Police Departmenl of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Code Enforcement Officers of the Village of Croton-onHudson, or other officials designaled by the Village Manager.

§ 127-8 Conflict with state law.
In the event any seclion, subsection, paragraph, or clause of this Chapter is in conflict with §§ 405
or 270 of the State Penal Law, the provisions of the Penal Law are deemed to be incorporated
herein and will control.
Section 4: Severability
If any seclion, subsection, clause, phrase or other porfion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section 5: Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of Slate.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 12
the {County){City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on October 4
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^^
of
duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20,,^
of
the (County)(City){Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved){not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the_
^
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

2Q| I

and was deemed duly adopted

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the {County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20 _

and was (approved)(not approved)

(Ndme of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permisslve) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County){City)(Town)(Village) of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20_

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-vyide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-I (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6, (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No..^
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20,
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that 1 have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adogtedJtithe manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
pefk ofthe pounty^ eg islative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or,
^/officer designaieo by iocal legislative body
i>fUjUyyui i^' S^^^"^
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l {Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Crolon-on-Hudson, New York
with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #168-2021
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 127 of the code of the Village of Crolon-onHudson, Fireworks, by codifying stale permitting requirements for fireworks displays, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2021 has been drafted lo reflect such language, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2021 was opened and closed
on October 4, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board ofTrustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 13 of 2021 to amend Chapter 127 ofthe code ofthe Village of Croton-onHudson, Fireworks, by codifying slale permitting requirements for fireworks displays, which upon
adoplion becomes Local Law No. 11 of 2021.
Dated; October 4, 2021

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
Stale ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted al a regular meeting of the Board of Truslees of said
Village held on October 04^'', 2021.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village this 05"^ day of October 2021.


