---
title: "LL 14-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 227, WETLANDS, AND CHAPTER 230, ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLA"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-07-17
chapters: Ch 227, Ch 230
status: current
---

LL 14-2025
Filed: 2025-07-17
Amends: Ch 227, Ch 230
TO AMEND CHAPTER 227, WETLANDS, AND CHAPTER 230, ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON IN RELATION TO PROVISIONS REGARDING TREES

---
title: "Local Law 14-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 227, WETLANDS, AND CHAPTER 230, ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLA"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-07-17
---

Local Law 14-2025
Filed: 2025-07-17
TO AMEND CHAPTER 227, WETLANDS, AND CHAPTER 230, ZONING OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON IN RELATION TO PROVISIONS REGARDING TREES

New York State

NEW
YORK
STATE

Department of State

^^P^'I'T^I"'!.?.^

"

DIVISION O F CORPORATIONS,
STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL C O D E
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Corporations, State Records & UCC

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
1^

of the year 20 ^

Local Law Title: ^ , ^^^^ , A W TO AMFNin P . H A P T F R ??7 W F T I ANn.ct A N H P . H A P T F R ?:^n 7nNiNn

DF

THE CQDE QF THE VILLAGE QF CROTQN-QN-HUDSON IN RELATION TO PROVISIONS
RFriARniNf^TRFF.ci

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•

County

•

City

•

Town

0 Village

(Select one)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only

^

FILED
STATE RECORDS
JUL 1 7 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Department of State Local L a w Index Number:

/V

of the year 20

{The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
iocal law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)
DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local iaw and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number
the (County)(City)(Town)(VI[lage) of

of 20

Croton-on-Hudson

Village Board of T r u s t e e s
f
.
(Name of Legislative Body)
with the applicable provisions of law.

on

of

^ a s duly passed by the
July 0 9
^

25

•
in accordance

20

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local iaw annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20__

(County)(City)(Town)(Vlllage) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)
on

20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
(Cou nty) (C ity )(Town) (Village) of

of 20

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Namg of Legislative Body)
{approved){not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason o f a (mandatory){permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(specjal)(annual) election held on
20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")

20
requesting such referendum was filed as of

. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
20

In accordance with the

applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief E:<ecutive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f (Rev. 02/25)

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
the City of

of 20

of

having submitted to referendum pursuant to

the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20

became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as iocal law number
the County of

of 20

of

State of New York, having been submitted to

the electors at the General Election of November

20

pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of

section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that 1 have compared the preceding local law with the original on file In this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted In the manner Indicated in
the paragraph

above.
Pauline DiSanto
Town or Village Clerk or
ody
"
'
'

(SeBl)r -

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

J^'y^Q- 2025
(Date)

page 3 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 14 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 227, WETLANDS, AND CHAPTER 230,
ZONING, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON IN
RELATION TO PROVISIONS REGARDING TREES
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section \. Section 227-3, Definitions, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to add the below definitions as follows:
CLEAR-CUTTING - The removal of four (4) or more trees from a property without
the benefit of a current and valid tree removal permit.
TREE - Any woody perennial plant of a species which grows at maturity to an overall
height of 10 feet or more and has a main stem or trunk or multiple trunks at maturity
which, in combination, normally attain a DBH of four inches or greater.
Section 2. Section 227-5, Regulated Activities, of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson is amended by adding a new subsection Q to read as follows:
Q. Removal of any tree that is four inches or more in DBH within a wetland,
watercourse, or wetland/watercourse buffer as defmed herein.
Section 3. Section 227-7, Permits, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is
amended by adding a new subsection F.(2)(g) thereto to read as follows
(g) Removal of any tree that is four inches or more in DBH within a wetland,
watercourse or wetland/watercourse buffer as described herein.
Section 4. Section 230-126.1 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
1. Tree planting. Shade trees shall be planted on each side of each street, between the
sidewalk and the property line, at maximum intervals of 50 feet, the species and
location of which are to be approved by the Planning Board in consultation with the
Superintendent of the Department of Public Works and pursuant to the guidelines of
Chapter 208 of the Village Code. The maximum possible number of existing trees
should be preserved.
Section 5. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason.

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

WETLANDS & ZONING
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
thereof, which other portions shall continue in M l effect.
Section 3. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

4904-5561-9638, V.1

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon- Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #176-2025
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory
No. 5 of 2025 to amend Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code to update provisions related to trees; and
WHEREAS, on April 23, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes; and
WHEREAS, on June 25, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process
and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Short EAF "Determination of
Significance" attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 5 of 2025, which was opened and closed on June 25, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village's Local Waterfront
Revitalization Prbgram; and
WHHEREAS, the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions; and
WHEREAS, on June 25, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP poUcy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with
those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved,
and, where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.
Policy 7A: The quality of the Croton River and Bay Significant Coastal Fish and
Wildlife Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be
protected and improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and other
public uses and values. Its resources shall be protected from the threat of pollution,

misuse, and

mismanagement.

Policy 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat
and the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of
or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Policy 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy
the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife
Habitat or Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be
permitted within the area of influence of the habitat unless best available technology
is used to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
Policy ZD; Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the Croton River and Bay
and Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitats and shorelands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup ofany adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
Policy 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such activity or impact other locations. Construction
activity in the Croton River and Hudson River spawning areas shall be timed so that
spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
Policy 7H: Habitat-related policies identified in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge
Watershed Conservation Action Plan will be considered in actions proposedfor these
areas.
Policy 9B: Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated
significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle
Arboretum, Gouveia Park, and on other public or private lands within the Village
where wildlife habitats are located, as well as the protection of such resources.
Policy 12: Activities or development in the coastal area will be undertaken so as to
minimize damage to natural resources and property fi'om flooding and erosion by
protecting natural protective features including beaches, dunes, barrier islands and

bluffs.
Policy 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site ofsuch activities or development, or at other
locations.

Policy 17A: Efforts to control erosion along the rivers and on the steep slopes inland
shall be ofa non-structural nature, wherever possible, to minimize the visual impact
of structural measures.
Policy 19: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.
Policy 23: Protect, enhance, and restore structures, districts, areas, or sites that are
of significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
Policy 25: Protect, restore, or enhance natural and man-made resources which are
not identifled as being of statewide significance, but which contribute to the overall
scenic quality of the coastal area. (The following scenic areas were noted in the LWRP
as having local and regional significance: (1) Distinctive and scenic views of Croton
Point, (2) Views of the Hudson River from South Riverside Avenue and Route 9
corridor, and (3) Vegetated slopes and undisturbed ridgelines particularly those in the
viewsheds in the Croton Gorge, River and Bay areas.)
Policy 25A: Establish and protect identified public viewsheds of the Hudson River,
including but not limited to the public views of the Hudson River from the western
shoreline of the Village, and of the Croton River and Gorge. (The following scenic
areas were noted in the LWRP .as having local and regional signiflcance: (1)
Distinctive and scenic views of Croton Point, (2) Views ofthe Hudson River from South
Riverside Avenue and Route 9 corridor, and (3) Vegetated slopes and undisturbed
ridgelines particularly those in the viewsheds in the Croton Gorge, River, and Bay
areas.
Policy 37A: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be exerted
in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new construction.
Policy 38: The quality and quantity of surface water supplies will be conserved and
protected, particularly where such waters constitute the primary or sole source of
water supply.
Policy 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the
benefits derived from these areas.
Policy 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing
damage from erosion or situation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against fiood and pollution.

The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above,
were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local
law to update provisions related to trees, complies with the policy standards and
conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2025 to amend Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter
230, Zoning, of the Village Code to update provisions related to trees, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 14 of 2025.
Dated: July 9, 2025

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 09 of July, 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said^^ijyki^elhis^O*'' day of July, 2025.

ypMge Cler'


