---
title: "LL 13-2022: TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-11-16
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 13-2022
Filed: 2022-11-16
Amends: 
TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO EXPAND THE AREA OF, AND MODIFY THE ZONING REGULATIONS FOR AND RELATED TO THE HARMON/SOUTH RIVERSIDE GATEWA AREA

---
title: "Local Law 13-2022: TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-11-16
---

Local Law 13-2022
Filed: 2022-11-16
TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO EXPAND THE AREA OF, AND MODIFY THE ZONING REGULATIONS FOR AND RELATED TO THE HARMON/SOUTH RIVERSIDE GATEWA AREA

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
vmw.dos. state. ny. us/co rps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

STATIC ; ::r •

DVillage

(Select one:)

NOV 1 6 ZOZZ

of Croton-on-Hudson

D£PART"Mhi\;
Local Law No.

13

of the year 2022

A local law ™ ^"^^^0 THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO EXPAND THE AREA OF, AND MODIFY THE ZONING
REGULATIONS FOR AND RELATED TO, THE HARMON/SOUTH RIVERSIDE
GATEWAY AREA
Be it enacted by the ^'"^9^ ^^^^^ ofTrustees

^^^^^

(Name af Legislative Body)

•County

DCity

GTown

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

asfollows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW 13 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO EXPAND THE AREA OF, AND MODIFY THE
ZONING REGULATIONS FOR AND RELATED TO, THE HARMON/SOUTH RIVERSIDE
GATEWAY AREA
Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1.
Section 230-20.3.B.(3) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
(3) In the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway District area, mixed use or multi-family residential
buildings, by special permit of the Village Board ofTrustees, subject to the following requirements and
criteria and to the requirements/criteria contained in Article X of this chapter:
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision ofthis chapter to the contrary, for the purposes of
this Article IVA, "mixed use" shall mean a combination in one building of residential
dwelling unhs and other permitted and/or special permit uses; provided, however:
[1] At least 50% of the area of the first floor of any mixed-use building must be
used for nonresidential use. Residential uses may not be located in the portion of a
building's first floor which is immediately inside the building's front facade, it being
the intention of this chapter that first-floor front building facades, and the building
areas immediately inside first-floor front building facades, will be used for
nonresidential purposes. It is the further intention of this law that any first-floor
residential space will be located "behind" first-floor nonresidential space as viewed
from the street/sidewalk adjacent to the building front. For the purpose of this
subsection, buildings located on street comers shall be deemed to have building
fronts on each of the intersecting streets which form the street comer.
[2] There shall be no percentage restrictions on the amount of residential versus
nonresidential space on the second or third floor of a mixed-use building.
[3] Residential dweUing units may be studios, one-bedroom units and two-bedroom
units only. No more than 50% of the total number of dwelling units in a building
may be two-bedroom units.
(b) Notwithstanding any provisions of § 230-20.4 or any other provisions of this chapter to
the contrary, the following area and bulk regulations shall apply to mixed-use or multifamily residential buildings in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area. To the extent
that contrary area/bulk regulations are not specified in this subsection, they shall be as
otherwise provided in this Code:

[1] Maximum floor area ratio (FAR) shall be 0.8.
[2] Maximum height shall be 35 feet/three stories.
[3] The minimum front yard setback shall be 15 feet. The maximum front yard
setback shall be 20 feet. In accordance with the general provisions of this chapter,
corner lots shall be deemed to have front yards on each of the intersecting streets
which form the corner.
[4] The Village Board shall have the authority in conducting special permit review
to reduce or waive side yard setback requirement(s) of the imderlying zone
provided that there is otherwise adequate access to parking areas, and provided that
one or more of the following criteria are met:
[a] Reducing the setback(s) will facilitate more parking to be provided in
the rear ofthe building than would otherwise be flie case.
[b] Reducing the setback(s) will facilitate the interconnection of rear
parking lots with those on adjoining property(ies).
[c] Reducing the setback(s) will contribute to the building forming a more
unified, cohesive streetscape with adjoining buildings than would otherwise
be the case.
[5] With the exception described below, preexisting buildings which do not meet
the front yard setback required herein (15 feet to 20 feet) or any of the other area
requirements ofthis chapter (e.g. rear yard setback) shall not be permitted to have
a FAR of 0.8 nor to add third-story occupancy. They shall be governed by the FAR
and story limitations of their underlying zone; provided, however, that preexisting
buildings which are otherwise area-compliant, but whose front yard setback is
between 10 feet and 20 feet (instead of the required 15 feet to 20 feet) shall be
permitted to have a FAR of 0.8 and third-story occupancy.
(c) Design regulations. In addition to any other design regulations provided in this Code,
the following design guidelines shall apply to mixed-use buildings in the Harmon/South
Riverside Gateway area:
[1] The street level facade ofthe front ofany building shall consist of at least sixtypercent transparent glass to facilitate visibility into the building's first-floor
commercial premises and a retail streetscape look. For the purpose of this
subsection, buildings located on street corners shall be deemed to have building
fronts on each ofthe intersecting streets which form the comer.
[2] Mixed-use buildings in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area shall be
subject to such additional design guidelines as may be adopted by resolution ofthe
Board of Tmstees from time to time.
(d) Parking.
[1 ] Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, for mixed-use
and multi-family residential buildings in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway
area there shall be provided at least the following amount of parking for each
residential dwelling unit: one parking space plus one additional parking space for
each bedroom in the unit in excess of one bedroom. (Examples; studio apartment:
one space; one-bedroom apartment; one space; two-bedroom apartment: two
spaces.) The minimum parking for nonresidential space shall be as otherwise

required by this chapter. The Village Board of Tmstees, as part of its special permit
determination, shall have the authority to increase these parking requirements. In
the case of each application, the Village Board ofTrustees shall consider and make
a fmding as to whether the above-stated parking requirements are adequate or will
be increased based upon the following factors:
[a] The mix of uses proposed to be conducted in the various spaces in the
building, considering, among other things, the extent to which their parking
demands are likely to overlap.
[b] Whether the applicant is willing to limit areas of the building to only
certain uses.
[c] The square footage of each of the proposed residential and commercial
imits in the building.
[d] The availability of nearby municipal parking.
[e] Such other factors as the Board may deem relevant on a case-by-case
basis.
[2] The Board shall have the authority to require applicant(s) to provide and/or pay
for a professional parking study

Section 2.
Section 230-20.4 Area and bulk regulations for the Gateway Overlay Districts shall be
amended to read as follows:
§230-20.4 Area and bulk regulations.
A. Maximum allowable floor area ratio. With the exception of mixed-use or multi-family residential
development in the Harmon/South Riverside area and multi-family or mixed occupancy
development permitted in the Municipal Place Gateway area as permitted in Section 230-20.3B(4)
above, the maximum floor area ratio (FAR) standards that shall be adhered to for new development
shall be the FAR listed for the imderlying zone or the following, whichever is more restrictive:
(1) For single-use properties, that is, a property proposed for only one principal permitted use;
0.35.
(2) For multi-use properties, including combinations of retail and office, retail and residential
uses or office and residential: 0.40.
B. Maximum building square footage. With the exception of lots within the C-2 Zoning District in
the Municipal Place Gateway area fronting on Municipal Place, the maximum permissible square
footage for any single building shall not exceed 20,000 square feet. This requirement is imposed
in order to encourage a compact urban design of the gateway.
C. Maximum permitted square footage for any single commercial use. With the exception of lots
within the C-2 Zoning District in the Municipal Place Gateway fronting on Municipal Place, the
maximum permissible square footage for any single commercial use by any single occupant or
tenant shall not exceed 8,000 square feet of gross floor area.

D. Maximum height. Maximum height shall be as permitted for the underlying zone as provided
elsewhere in this Chapter, except for the following:
(1) Maximum height for mixed use or multi-family residential development in the
Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area shall be 3 stories and 35 feet.
(2) Maximum height for buildings within the C-2 Zoning District in the Municipal Place
Gateway area on lots fronting on Municipal Place shall be 3 stories and 35 feet.
Section 3.
Chapter 230 Attachment E, Gateway Districts Location, is amended to add the following
Tax Map Lots to the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway District, and these lots are hereby rezoned to be
included in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway District.
Tax Map Lots numbered 79.13-1-76, 79.13-1-77, 79.13-1-83, 79-13-1-84, 79.13-2-91
Section 4.
The rear portion of the property known as Tax Map Lot numbered 79.13-2-91 is hereby
rezoned from RA-5 to C-2 such that the entire Tax Map Lot is zoned C-2 and the zoning map shall hereby
be amended to reflect such change.
Section 5.
Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall
continue in full force and effect.
Section 6.
Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary of
State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by locat legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 1?
the (County)(City)(Town)(Viilage) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on November 01
20^
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^^
of
^^^^ passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*,)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County){City)(Town)(Village) of
.
.
was duly passed by the
—
on
(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by t h e _
„ ^
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

3.

20|

I

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
and was deemed duly adopted

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

.

of

vwas duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

fName of LegjsJaf/ve BodyJ
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subjectto permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20^^

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

_. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-[ (Rev.06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (speciai)(general) election held on
20_
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 ofsection 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finajly-edSpted inTFifesfnanner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
.egislative body. City, Town or Village_Qla:^or^ .ZZs
y local legislative body •~^2e^,_Aa*.v-x_'
u:ic*-*-{
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev.06/12)

Date;

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded, by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Viiiage of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 4-1 vole, with
Tmstee Horowitz voting Nay.
RESOLUTION FOR ADOPTION OF LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 11
OF 2022 TO AMEND THE PROVISIONS OF THE ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO EXPAND THE AREA OF, AND MODIFY THE ZONING
REGULATIONS FOR AND RELATED TO, THE HARMON/SOUTH RIVERSIDE GATEWAY
AREA
Resolution #162-2022
WHEREAS since 2007, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson the Village has been considering ways to
encourage revitaiization and reduce commercial vacancies in the Harmon area, and is desirous of
introducing a mixed use/TOD concept to an area of the Village well-suhed for such development, and
WHEREAS the Village Board solicited proposals from for consuhant planning services for potential
zoning changes to and expansion of the Harmon Gateway zoning district, and
WHEREAS on June 7, 2021, the Viiiage Board retained AKRF of White Plains, New York to provide
such services, including the preparation of zoning text and map amendments for the Harmon/South
Riverside Gateway ("HSRG") Overlay, completion of a Full Environmental Assessment Form ("EAF")
Part I , supplemental studies for the Village's environmental reviev^', and attendance at various Village
meetings and public hearings, and
WHEREAS the scope of the original proposed work was expanded to include viewshed analyses, an
assessment ofthe feasibility of establishing a transit-oriented zoning district in the area, and visual profile
sections from residential areas, and
WHEREAS the results of AKRF's analyses were presented to the Village in a memorandum dated August
5, 2022, and
WHEREAS the memorandum recommended proposed revisions to the Zoning Code to expand the
Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area and encourage residential development in that area, and to modify
the regulations for the Light Industrial ("LI") zoning district in the area near the Metro-North CrotonHarmon Train Station to allow for transit-oriented residential development (collectively the "Proposed
Action"), and
WHEREAS the Village Board thereafter directed the preparation of Local Law Introductory No. 11 of
2022 and Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2022 incorporating the recommendations of the analyses
together with the issuance of a Coastal Assessment Form ("CAF") in connection with the Proposed Action,
and
WHEREAS on September 6, 2022, the Village Board declared itself to be Lead Agency under SEQRA,
and circulated the proposed Local Laws, Full EAF, CAF, and analyses to various interested agencies

-1-

including the Village Planning Board, the Westchester County Planning Board and the Village Waterfront
Advisory Committee, and
WHEREAS on September 16, 2022, the Village Board received a favorable letter from the Westchester
County Planning Board and on September 23, 2022, received a memo from the Planning Board with
recommendations, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 11 of 2022,
and Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2022, on September 19, 2022, which was continued to October 3,
2022, and closed, and
WHEREAS the Village Board discussed comments received at the public hearing as well as the
recommendations received from the Planning Board at subsequent meetings and requested that AKRF
providefrirtherinformation and review regarding some of the comments and issues raised, and
WHEREAS after discussion at its October 17, 2022, meeting the Village Board has adopted a Negative
Declaration in connection with the Proposed Action and determined the Proposed Action is consistent
with the policies and conditions set forth in the Local Waterfront Revitaiization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has considered all comments received both verbally and in writing as part
ofthe public hearing and throughout this process, together with all other documents and correspondence
which are a part of the record on this matter,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 11 of 2022, to amend the provisions of the Zoning Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson to expand the area of, and modify the zoning regulations for and related to, the Harmon/South
Riverside Gateway Area, which upon adoption becomes Local LawNo. 13 of 2022.
Dated: November 1,2022
State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, inthe County of Westchester, State of
New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my offlce and
has been duly adopted at a regular meeting ofthe Board of Tmstees of said Village held on November
01'*, 2022.
IN WITNESS WHER^lOFTtliave-hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Villase this 04^''

-2-


