---
title: "LL 14-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 42 POLICE DEPARTMENT OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HU"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-07-20
chapters: Ch 42
status: current
---

LL 14-2023
Filed: 2023-07-20
Amends: Ch 42
TO AMEND CHAPTER 42 POLICE DEPARTMENT OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TO AMEND ARTICLE II, POLICE RULES AND REGULATIONS, TO UPDATE THE RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT

---
title: "Local Law 14-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 42 POLICE DEPARTMENT OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HU"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-07-20
---

Local Law 14-2023
Filed: 2023-07-20
TO AMEND CHAPTER 42 POLICE DEPARTMENT OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TO AMEND ARTICLE II, POLICE RULES AND REGULATIONS, TO UPDATE THE RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Ptaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

( U s e this form to file a local law with the S e c r e t a r y of State.)
Text of law should be given a s amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

|X]Village

f

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

JUL a 02023
Local L a w No.
A local law

of the y e a r 2023

14

T

STATE

AMEND CHAPTER 42, POLICE DEPARTMENT, OF T H E C O D E OF T H E
(tr]sert Title)

VILLAGE O F CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO AMEND ARTICLE II, POLICE R U L E S AND
REGULATIONS, TO UPDATE THE R U L E S AND REGULATIONS F O R THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT

B e it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

nCity

GTown

iXlVHIage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows;

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 14 -2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 42, POLICE DEPARTMENT, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO AMEND A R T I C L E II, POLICE RULES AND
REGULATIONS, TO UPDATE THE RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows;
Section One. Chapter 42, Police Department, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to revise Article II, Police Rules and Regulations, to read as follows (see strike-through for deleted
text and underline for added text):
Article II
Police Rules and Regulations
§ 42-3 Powers and duties of Police Chief.
A. The Chief of Police is the chief executive officer ofthe Police Department and is directly responsible to
the Village Manager. He or she shall be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Department
within the guidelines established by the Board of Trustees. The Chief shall supervise adherence to these
rules and regulations affecting police operations.
B.

The Chief may issue such further written instructions for the guidance of members of the Department in
the conduct of their police duties as he or she may from time to time determine, and all such instructions
shall have the force and effect of orders and conmiands ofthe Chief to each and every member of tlie
Department. These instructions shall make up the Department Operations Manual, over which the Chief
has authority to add, delete or revise material therein.

C.

The Chief shall also have direct supervision of the entire police force and will be held responsible for
the enforcement of these rules and regulations for the preservation of order, the Department Operations
Manual and the enforcement of the laws and ordinances of the village. He or she shall make and file
with the Village Manager a monthly and annual written report concerning the operation of the Police
Department in such form as the Village Manager shall prescribe.

D.

In the absence ofthe Chief of Police or his or her inability to serve, the Chief shall designate a
subordinate to command the Department. If the Chief is unable to designate an Acting Chief, the Village
Manager shall designate an Acting Chief

§ 42-4 General rules.
A. All members of the Police Department are subject to the rules and regulations of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson Police Department set forth at length in the Department Operations Manual. Failure to
conform to these rules and procedures will result in disciplinary measures.
§ 42-5 Disciplinary procedures.
A. The Chief of Police is responsible for discipline within the Department. All disciplinary matters shall be
conducted in accordance with § 5711-q of the Unconsolidated Laws and other applicable statutes. This
authority is also conferred upon the ranking officers who supervise other officers.
B.

The Chief of Police is authorized to dispose of minor dereliction which he can correct or the recurrence
of which he can prevent by admonition or warning. A disorder or neglect to the prejudice of good order,
efficiency or discipline, though not specifically mentioned in the Department Operations Manual, may

be disposed through command discipline mutually agreed to by the officer in question and the Chief of
Police.
C.

The Village Clerk shall maintain a personnel record of each member of the Department, which shall
show all disciplinary action and all commendations. The review of a member's personnel record shall be
in accordance with the regulations set forth in the union contract.

D.

Any suspended officer shall immediately deliver to the Chief of Police or the ranking officer on duty all
village property in his or her possession.

E.

A citizen's complaint against a member of the force must be referred to the Chief of Police. If the
complaint is against the Chief of Police, it shall be investigated by the Village Manager. If it is against
any other member of the force, it shall be investigated by the Chief of Police, and his report thereon
shall be filed with the Village Manager. If the Chief of Police determines from such investigation that
charges should be preferred against such member of the force, he shall do so.

F.

Repealed failure to follow proper police procedure may be considered evidence of unsuitabilily for
police service.

G. Any officer acting in an insubordinate, disrespectful or grossly unprofessional manner may be
suspended on the spot by the Chief or the ranking officer in charge.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason, declared invalid,
in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and
effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary of State
in accordance with section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

on July 1Q

of 20^-^
of
^^ag ^^^^ passed by the
20^

in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

^

and was deemed duly adopted

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory){permiss!ve) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20^

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20_

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20„_

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if tinere
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-i (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote o f a majority ofthe qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special){general) election held on
20
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
., pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finaliy^^adtSpfedTrKjhe manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
Cl^fKof the cduHtyl^islative body. City, Town or Village C^rj<iiL
yCffficerdesignateoGy local legislative body " " p & ^ t ^ L * - ^ ^ ' E ^ ' ^ ' ^ ' ^
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Tmstees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #163-2023
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 42,
Police Department, of the Village Code to update the rules and regulations for the
Police Department, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 12 was opened and
closed on July 10, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 12 of2023, updating the rules and regulations for
the Police Department, which upon adoption becomes Local Law 14 of 2023.
Dated: July 10,2023

State ofNew York

)
ss:

County of Westchester

)

I , Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy
of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 10* of July 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
ofthe said Village this 12* day of July 2023.

(Seal)


