---
title: "LL 15-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 123, FIREARMS, OF THE VILLAGE CODE"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-09-05
chapters: Ch 123
status: current
---

LL 15-2023
Filed: 2023-09-05
Amends: Ch 123
TO AMEND CHAPTER 123, FIREARMS, OF THE VILLAGE CODE

---
title: "Local Law 15-2023: TO AMEND CHAPTER 123, FIREARMS, OF THE VILLAGE CODE"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-09-05
---

Local Law 15-2023
Filed: 2023-09-05
TO AMEND CHAPTER 123, FIREARMS, OF THE VILLAGE CODE

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

nCity

DTown

^Village

FILED
STATE RECORDS

(Selectone:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.

SEP 0 & im
of the year 2023

15

A local law TO AMEND CHAPTER 123, FIREARMS, OF THE VILLAGE CODE
(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name ofLegislative Body)

•County

GCity

•Town

[XlVillage

(Selectone:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 15 OF 2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 123, FIREARMS, OF THE VILLAGE CODE
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 123, Firearms, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, §123-3 is
hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 123-3. Exemptions.
This chapter shall not apply to:
A. The authorized use of a pistol, rifle or target range regularly operated and maintained by a law
enforcement agency.
B. Law enforcement officers in the discharge of their duties or other persons in the defense of
person or property.
C. persons lawfully engaged in historical reenactments, educational programming involving
historical weapons of warfare, or motion picture or theatrical productions under the conditions
outUned in § 123-4.
D. Persons participating in military ceremonies, funerals, and honor guards.
Section Two. A new Section 4 of Chapter 123 entitled "Approval required" is hereby added to the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to read as follows:
§ 123-4. Approval required
A.

B.

Coordinators or solo performers of historical reenactments, educational programming
involving historical weapons of warfare, or motion picture or theatrical productions that
discharge firearm(s) within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall first be required to
obtain approval from the Chief of Police.
Application for such approval shall be made in writing to the Chief of Police
no less than 30 calendar days in advance of the date of the event and shall include the
following information:
1) The name, address and telephone number of the armorer responsible for the event,
or reenactment, or entertainment group;
2) A list of every person possessing a firearm who intends to participate in a
reenactment or other form of entertainment and discharge the firearm on property
within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson;
3) The date, time of day and location at which the event is to be held.

Section Three. A new Section 5 of Chapter 123 entitled "Notice required" is hereby added to the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to read as follows:
§ 123-5. Notice required.
Notice of any historical reenactments, educational programming involving historical weapons of
warfare, or motion picture or theatrical productions that will involve discharging firearm(s) within
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall be mailed not less than seven days prior to the date of the
event to all owners of property abutting and within 200 feet of the property on which the event is
to be held.
Section Four. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Five. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
i hereby certify tliat the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 1 ^
the {County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name ofLegislative Body)
provisions of law.

on August 28

of 20^-^
of
y^as ^j^^ly passed by the

2023

, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

2o|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

,

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto locai laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereoa at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of „
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized f o r m of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file In this office and that the same Is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally ^ d o p t ^ d - i n ^ e manner indicated In
paragraph.
above.
C 1l ^ of
the coury^
ol^^
Town
C l e r kor^
ottne
couray le^^ifflaifve
legi^ative p
boayroity,
l own or
or Village
yiiiage oierK
j^\CBr designatetu^j^cal legislative body
v.:>'\"Sciet^
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

/

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI , the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #188-2023
WHEREAS New York State recently enacted legislation relating to the usage of
firearms in historical reenactments, military funeral salutes, and other similar
activities, and
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 123, Firearms, of the Village
Code to reflect these changes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is considering the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 15 of 2023, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 15 of2023 was opened
and closed on August 28, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 15 of 2023 to amend Chapter 123, Firearms, of
the Village Code, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 15 of 2023.
Dated: August 28, 2023
^ ^! ^ sl^ ^ *!• ^

4* ^

^fi't*

'i* 'I*

'1^ '1^ 't* ^fi ^fi

't* ^

^

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an^cffiginal on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of tlie Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 28* of August 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
-seal of the.s'aid Village this 29* day of August 2023.


