---
title: "LL 2-2024: TO AMEND THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HU"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-02-26
chapters: Ch 179
status: current
---

LL 2-2024
Filed: 2024-02-26
Amends: Ch 179
TO AMEND THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 179, TO PROVIDE FOR THE REMOVAL OF WEEDS, BRUSH AND RUBBISH, REGISTRATION AND THE MAINTNANCE OF VACANT COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS

---
title: "Local Law 2-2024: TO AMEND THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HU"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-02-26
---

Local Law 2-2024
Filed: 2024-02-26
TO AMEND THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 179, TO PROVIDE FOR THE REMOVAL OF WEEDS, BRUSH AND RUBBISH, REGISTRATION AND THE MAINTNANCE OF VACANT COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ n r P i l I PixA/ F i l i n n
LUUdI L d W

Albany, NY 12231-0001

r i U n y

www.dosstate.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
GCounty G C i t y G T o w n [^Village
STATERECORDS
(Select one:)

FEB 2^202^

of Croton-on-Hudson

DEPARTMENT
Local Law No.

02

STATE

of the year 2024

A local law ™ AMEND THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE
(Insert Title)

"'

OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 179, TO PROVIDE FOR THE REMOVAL OF
WEEDS, BRUSH AND RUBBISH REGISTRATION AND THE MAINTENANCE OF
VACANT COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS
Be it enacted by t h e Vi"age Board of Trustees
(pJame of Legislative Body)

GCounty

GCity

QTown

[XlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 02-2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE LAW OF THE CODE
OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 179, TO PROVIDE FOR
THE REMOVAL OF WEEDS, BRUSH AND RUBBISH REGISTRATION AND THE
MAINTENANCE OF VACANT COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS

BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 179, Property Maintenance, of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson, is hereby repealed in its entirety.
Section Two. Chapter 179, Property Maintenance, ofthe Code ofthe Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to include a new Article I , "Weed, Brush and Rubbish Control" to
read as follows:
Article L Weed, Brush and Rubbish Control.
§ 179-1. Definitions
A. As used in this Article, the following term shall have the meaning indicated:
WEEDS
Uncultivated vegetation such as grasses, brush, briars, and annual plants, excluding trees
and cultivated vegetation, such as shrubs, flowers, gardens, and vegetation used for
agricultural purposes.
§ 179-2. Removal of weeds, brush and rubbish.
A. It shall be the duty of any owner, tenant, occupant or person legally in possession of real
property within the limits of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to:
1) Remove all rubbish or other materials from such land or part thereof; and
2) Cut and remove all weeds or brush growing upon such developed areas of the premises that are
intended to be used by the building occupants or the public, when such weeds or brush exceed an
average height in excess of ten inches; and
3) Cut and remove all weeds or bush growing upon such land located between the property line
and the curb or edge of the street or sidewalk, when such weeds or brush exceed an average height
in excess of ten inches.
§ 179-3. Notice to maintain.

Upon the neglect or refusal of the owner or occupant of any real property to perform the duties set
forth in § 179-2 herein, the Village Manager or Village Engineer of the Village of Croton-onHudson, or their designees, shall, by written notice, served either personally or by mail to the lastknown address of such owner or occupant, order the owner or occupant to cut and remove all
weeds or brush upon such premises and to remove all rubbish therefrom within ten days of the
date ofthe notice.
§ 179-4. Failure to comply; work done by Village; assessment of costs.
If any such person upon whom notice is served pursuant to § 179-3 fails or neglects to cut and
remove such weeds or brush and/or remove all rubbish within the time specified in said notice, the
Village Board of Trustees may cause the rubbish to be removed and the weeds and brush to be cut
and removed. The costs thereof shall be assessed against the real property from which the same
was removed as provided in the Village Law.
§ 179-5. Penalties for offenses.
Failure to comply with any notice served pursuant to § 179-3 shall constitute a violation of this
Article, and any person failing to so comply shall be subject to the provisions of § 1-12 of Chapter
1, General Provisions.

Section Three. Chapter 179, Property Maintenance, of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to add a new Article II entitled "Vacant Commercial Buildings" to
read as follows:
Article II: Vacant Commerciai Buildings
§ 179-6. Registration and Maintenance of Vacant Commercial Buildings
A. Findings and purposes. The purposes of this Section are to protect the welfare and
economic vitality of the residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson by protecting
property values, maintaining neighborhood integrity and accessibility, safeguarding
against economic property blight, protecting Village resources, and ensuring the safe and
sanitary maintenance of commercial vacant properties. Among other things, vacant street
level commercial space can degrade the vitality of the Village's busmess districts, frustrate
local planning efforts, create increased specific risks of fire damage, vandalism, and
unlawful entry or uses, and give rise to other public health and safety hazards. This Section
is intended to promote and protect the Village's public welfare and economic health by
reqiiiring property owners to register and properly maintain vacant street level commercial
properties.
B. Definitions. As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:

COMMERCIAL BUILDING
All buildings within the Village, except for one- and two-family residences.
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson Engineering Department.
OCCUPANT
A person or entity who, alone or severally with others, is:
1. An Owner using space in a building; or
2. A tenant with a legal right to use and possess space in a building.
OWNER
A person or entity who, alone or severally with others:
1. Has legal or equitable title to any building or has care, charge, or control of any building
in any capacity including but not limited to agent, executor, executrix, administrator,
adminstratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the holder of legal title; or
2. Is a mortgagee in possession of any building; or
3. Is an agent, trustee, receiver or other person appointed by the courts and vested with
possession or control of a building.
VILLAGE ENGINEER
The Village Official designated to head the Engineering Department for the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson. The term "Village Engineer" shall include their designee authorized to
administer the provisions of this section.
VACANT SPACE
Any unoccupied street level building space in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson which is
not legally occupied, is abandoned, or is not open for business with an ongoing business
concern operatmg in the space during customary business hours for a period of at least one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or longer by occupants having legal custody or legal
right of entry to such property.
C. Registration.
1. Prior to, or not more than seven (7) days after a unit or any portion of a property
becomes Vacant Space, as defined herein, the Owner(s) must register the vacancy with
the Engineering Department on forms provided by such Department. All vacancy
registrations must state the Owner's name, phone number, and mailing address as well
as such information for an emergency contact, i f not the same. None of the required
addresses shall be a post office box. The registration shall also state the Owner's efforts
to reactivate the use of the space. Once the space is no longer vacant or is sold, the

Owner must provide proof of sale or written notice and proof of lawful occupancy to
the Engineering Department pursuant to the process outlined by such Department. The
Village Engineer will notify the Public Works, Police and Fhe Departments of the
submitted registration of the Vacant Space.
2. The Village Manager, with the input ofthe Village Engineer, may exempt a property
Owner from the provisions of this Section upon the presentation of evidence, in such
form as may be convincing to him, that the failure to use or occupy a commercial space
for a period in excess of one hundred eighty (180) days does not violate the purpose or
intent of this Section.
D. Annual registration fee; failure to pay.
1. There shall be an atmual registration fee for Vacant Space to offset the Village's costs
of monitoring such space. The first annual registration fee is due at the time the Vacant
Space is initially registered with the Village. Thereafter, the Owner of the Vacant Space
shall receive a billing statement on an annual basis until the Village is informed of a
change of status. The amoxmt of the annual registration fee shall be specified in the fee
schedule set by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
2. After the first registration fee, the Village shall send the Owner of any Vacant Space
an annual billing statement, and the Owner shall pay to the Village the fee which has
been billed. Failure to pay the first or any subsequent registration fee within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the billing statement shall be a violation of this Section, and the full
fee shall be deemed an assessment resulting from a violation of this Section. Such fee,
and any fines issued for violations of this Section, shall constitute a lien on the property,
to be collected in accordance with the process described in § 204-11.
E. Inspections. The Village Manager, Village Engineer, Police Chief, and Fire Chief, or their
designees, shall have the authority to periodically inspect the exterior and interior of Vacant
Space subject to this Section for compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
The Village Engineer shall have the discretionary authority, but not the obligation, to cause
utilities to be discormected immediately if a potential hazard that may be dangerous to life
and limb is present. If the Village Engineer causes utilities to be disconnected, the Owner
shall reimburse the Village for its costs in having the utilities disconnected. Failure to pay
these costs within thirty (30) days of being notified that they are due shall be a violation of
this Section, and the fiill amount of the costs shall be deemed an assessment resulting from
a violation of this Section. Such costs, and any fines issued for violations of this Section,
shall constitute a lien on the property, to be collected in accordance with the process
described in § 204-11.
F. Nothing in this Section shall abrogate an owner's duty to maintain the vacant space as
required by § 179-2.
G. Violations and penalties; enforcement.

1. In addition to any of the remedies provided herein, violations of any portions of this
Section shall be punishable by afineof up to $100 per day that the Owner is not in
compliance with this Section. Violations of this law shall not be deemed a
misdemeanor nor a felony.
2. The Village Engineer shall have die authority to enforce all provisions of this Section.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson may also bring a civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction seeking equitable relief to enforce this Section.
H. Unsafe buildings. Nothing in this Section shall abrogate the powers and/or duties of
municipal officials to act to remedy unsafe conditions pursuant to any general statutory
authority including, without limitation, the New York State Unifonn Fire Prevention and
Building Code and the New York State Village Law and General Municipal Law.
§ 179-7. Vacant commercial buildings
A. Removal of signage; covering required. When a commercial building, or portion thereof,
in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has become vacant and has remained vacant for a
period in excess of 30 days, the owner, lessee or other responsible individual or entity shall
remove all signage from the building and windows, including windows in doors, and place
a covering in the storefront to block the view of the interior of the vacant premises to public
view. The covering shall be of such material as provided below.
B. Covering specifications. The covering may consist of frosted translucent window film
adhered to the interior of window, covering the entire window, including windows in doors,
with the exception of a "For Lease" sign in compliance with the appropriate code.
C. Maintenance of window display areas. Any and all window display areas shall be kept
clean, free of hazard and free of debris. Further, cracked or broken glass display windows
shall be replaced with glass.

Section Four. Severability. If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this
Local Law is, for any reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency,
commission, legislative body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Five. Effective Date. This local law shall take effect inmiediately upon filing with the
Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
i hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

on ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 07

^^,y

of 2 o 2 1 _ of
^^^^^^

2 0 H j _ , in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

was duly passed by the
on

20_

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Ctiief Executive Officer*)

on

20|

I

I, in accordance w Ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Viilage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Cfiief Executive

20

.

Officer*)

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general){special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

In accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(\flllage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20,^

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes ttie ctiief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, If ttiere

be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36){37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
„ , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
i further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finai^.aciQpted in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
0 1 ^ of the cou(\tv Jegi^ative body. City, Town or \Allage Clef^k qr
jdfficerdesignatedby local legisiative body ^ ^ f i i ^ U - y ^ i>iS<:t»^TO
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, tiie following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #18-2024
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 179, Property
Maintenance, ofthe Village Code to provide for the removal of weeds, brush, and rubbish, as well
as the registration and maintenance of vacant commercial buildings, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 23 of2023 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was previously opened and closed on January 10, 2024, and
WHEREAS a number of substantive changes were made to the law and a second Public Hearing
was opened and closed on February 7, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 23 of 2023 to amend Chapter 179, Property Maintenance, of the Village
Code to provide for the removal of weeds, brush, and rubbish, as well as the registration and
maintenance of vacant commercial buildings, which upon adoption becomes Locai Law No. 2 of
2024.

Dated: February 7, 2024
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the armexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village
held on the 07^ of February 2024.
IN WITNESS MTIEREQF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this-^^I^day of ijebruary 2024.
ill^geCF''(Seai)


