---
title: "LL 2-2022: TO AMEND CHAPTER 160 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, NOISE, TO E"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-01-26
chapters: Ch 160
status: current
---

LL 2-2022
Filed: 2022-01-26
Amends: Ch 160
TO AMEND CHAPTER 160 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, NOISE, TO ESTABLISH REGULATIONS ON GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWERS

---
title: "Local Law 2-2022: TO AMEND CHAPTER 160 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, NOISE, TO E"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-01-26
---

Local Law 2-2022
Filed: 2022-01-26
TO AMEND CHAPTER 160 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, NOISE, TO ESTABLISH REGULATIONS ON GAS POWERED LEAF BLOWERS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www. dos. state. ny. u s/co rps

Local Law Filing

( U s e t h i s form to file a local law with the S e c r e t a r y of State.)
Text of law should be given a s amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

[XlVillage

FILED
STATE RECORDS

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

JAM 2 G ^OZZDSPARTMSirr OF STATE

Local Law No.
A local law

o f t h e y e a r 2022

02

TO AMEND CHAPTER 160 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON(Insert Title)

HUDSON, NOiSE, TO ESTABLISH REGULATIONS ON GAS-POWERED
LEAF B L O W E R S

Be it e n a c t e d by t h e ViUage Board of Trustees

of the

(Name ofLegislative Body)

•County

DCity

DTown

DVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size a s this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 02 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 160 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, NOISE, TO ESTABLISH REGULATIONS ON GASPOWERED LEAF BLOWERS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1: Subsection I of Section 160-4 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
§ 160-4 Enumeration of prohibited noises.
1.

Notwithstanding the time constraints in Section H above, the operation of gaspowered leaf blowers is prohibited between June 1 and August 31,2022, as well as
January 1 and March 31, 2023, and every year thereafter. Between the
aforementioned periods of each year, the Village Manager or his designee shall
determine whether the use of gas-powered leaf blowers by the general public after
significant storm events or other emergency circumstances shall be permitted for a
period of time not to exceed seven days. The provisions hereof shall not be deemed to
prevent the use of gas-powered leaf blowers on school district property at any time.
Any violation issued under this Subsection I shall be issued to the property owner or
the owner of the business undertaking the gas-powered leaf blowing operations, at the
discretion of the enforcement officer issuing the violation.
1.

Properties in excess of 40.000 square feet in lot area shall be eligible to
apply for a permit for the operation of gas-powered leaf blowers, with
reasonable and appropriate conditions and/or limitations as determined by
the Village Manager or his designee. The permit shall be valid for a period
no less than one week and no longer than three months and the fee shall be
established by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees.

Section 2: The subsections of Section 160-4 which follow subsection I shall be re-lettered in
alphabetical order.
Section 3: Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.

Section 4: Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. zz.
the (County){City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on January 18
(Name ofLegislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^^
of
passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved){not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Otficer*)
on

3.

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the tocal law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City){Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(speclal)(annual) election held on
20^

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the locai law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20^^

. Such local

(Elective Chief Execufive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-vt/ide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon atthe (special)(general) election held on
20.
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
.State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20.^
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipai Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted In the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
-.
(Seal)

_

Cte(lC(^S'TO^^^g^lative body, City, Town orXMage^rk or
fficer designated^y local legislative body T W - O L * / ^ r>is^
E-

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEESIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following resolution was adopted by the
Board of Trustees of the Viilage of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Resales
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
Resolution #5-2022
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 160 of the Village Code, Noise, to establish regulations on gaspowered leaf blowers, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 14 of 2021 which has been
drafted to reflect such language, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 14 of2021 was opened and closed on January 18,2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory
No. 14 of2021 to amend Chapter 160 of the Village Code, Noise, to establish regulations on gas-powered leaf blowers,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 2 of 2022.

Dated: January 18, 2022
StateofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State ofNew York, do
hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a
regular meeting of the Board of Tmstees of said Village held on January 18'*', 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal ofthe said Village this 19^
day of January 2022.

^yiflagetler
(Seal)


