---
title: "LL 2-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 135, GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-01-23
chapters: Ch 135
status: current
---

LL 2-2025
Filed: 2025-01-23
Amends: Ch 135
TO AMEND CHAPTER 135, GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING

---
title: "Local Law 2-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 135, GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-01-23
---

Local Law 2-2025
Filed: 2025-01-23
TO AMEND CHAPTER 135, GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Local Law Filina

Ab
l any, NY 122310001

L-v^k^gi i-Qtvv I i n i i y

www.dQs.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and'dcTnot use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
STATE F "^^OBDS
•County

ncity

•Town

^Village

(Selectone:)

J A|,j

2 3

2G25

of Croton-on-Hudson

DZPAHTMEr^T OF STATE
Local Law No.

02

of the year 2025

A local law """O AMEND CHAPTER 135,GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING
(Insert We)

"

'

'

'

"

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

nCity

GTown

^Village

fSeiecto/ie;)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
o„ January 08
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2025

of 20^^
of
^^,y p^^^^^
, in accordance with the applicable
*^

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law IMo.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
.
.
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval)
by t h e _
^
.
and was deemed duly adopted
disappro
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20|

I I, in accordance w Ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the {County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

-arid was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the {general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legisiative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20.

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, In accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested wilh the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of _
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20_
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification,)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
C^?Kcfthecoui%
ydmcer designated by locaUegislative bod\
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f'l (Rev, 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 02 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 135,
GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 135-3, Definitions, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
§ 135-3. Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
CONTAINER — A watertight, nonrusting metal or plastic container of substantial
construction with sloping sidewalls, volume or capacity not to exceed 45 gallons nor total
full weight over 70 pounds, equipped with a tightfitting cover and with two substantial
handles.
DUMPSTER — A container of one and one-half cubic yards, fabricated of prime steel, fully
welded throughout, moimted on four six-inch swivel casters, capable of being emptied into
the hopper of a rear- load packer truck and which meets all village specifications and all
United States federal safety standards.
GARBAGE — All putrescible or decaying wastes, except sewage, body wastes and medical
and nuclear wastes including vegetables and animal offal, carcasses of dead animals, litter,
paper, paper products or materials, cardboard, wood, rubber, cloth, leather or any similar
combustible material, and all such substances accumulated on or removed from all public and
private establishments and properties, including residences, but excluding recognizable
industrial byproducts, discarded wood, lumber or stones. Garbage shall not be understood to
include recyclables as defined in §185, Recycling, of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson.
PERSON " Any individual, firm, partnership, company, corporation, society, association or
group.
RUBBISH — Inorganic wastes such as glass, porcelain crockery, metals, tin cans or other
similar noncombustible matter, and shall also include grass clippings, leaves, tree trimmings,
bushes, branches, Christmas trees and similar waste materials and equipment or furnitm-e.
Section Two. Chapter 135, Garbage, Rubbish and Littering, is hereby amended to add a new Section
135-8 entitled "Collection schedule" to read as follows:
§ 135-8. Collection schedule.

Materials shall be collected curbside once per week as per an established schedule. Containers
shall be placed curbside not before 5:00 p.m. on the day preceding collection nor later than 7:00
a.m. on the scheduled collection date.
Section Three. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, conunission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Four. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.
BE IT FURTHER ENACTED that the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson deems
this matter to be a Type II action under New York's State Envirormiental Quality Review Act and no
further action is required.

On morion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson,
New York with a - vote.
Resolution #2-2025
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2024 has been drafted to amend Chapter
135, Garbage, Rubbish, and Littering, of the Village Code; and
WHEREAS, the proposed local law includes revisions to update definitions in the
Village Code and set the times when garbage containers may be placed curbside; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees held a public hearing on January 8, 2025,
which was opened and closed on the same date, to consider Local Law Introductory No.
16 of2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2024, amending Chapter 135, Garbage,
Rubbish, and Littering, of the Village Code, which upon adoption becomes Local Law
No. 2 of 2025.
Dated: January 8, 2025
•fs

^ ^

^

ff*

3^

sjc 7^

sfc

tffs

^«

r{c rff

«^ j|c ^£ sjc ^

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy
of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 08*'' of January 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREQE^have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
ofthe said Villagp4his lO^^d^ of January 2025.
VjlMge Clerk'^ ^
(Seal)


