---
title: "LL 2-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-02-22
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 2-2000
Filed: 2000-02-22
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 2-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-02-22
---

Local Law 2-2000
Filed: 2000-02-22


Local Law Filing

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY.NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text oflaw should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated a
italics or underlining to indicate new maUer.
County
^ \ \ ^
22 2000
CROTON - ON - HUDSON
Town of
Village
Local Law No
^
o f the y e a r j 0 0
A local law

3

amending Chapter 86 of the Village Code by adding of a new
paragraph to be enumerated as Section 86-9, paragraph I, titled
"Payment of taxes Required."

Be It enacted by the 3 9 ^ ^ OFTRUSTEES

ofthe

(New of Le-slativeUoJy)

County
• Town
Village

of CROTON^ 0N_-HUDSON

as follows:

Section I. No permits, variances, licenses, subdivision or other approvals or authorizations shall be
issued, no applications therefore shail be considered, and no informal preliminary review or other
procedure in relation thereto shall be conducted by the Village Board, the Planning Board, the Zoning
Board of Appeals, the Building Inspector or any other board, commission or agency of the Village,
with respect to any premises within the Village, unless and until all amounts due the Village on said
premises in real estate taxes, special assessments and any other payments, chargeable to the owner
or possessor of said premises, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall have been paid
in full. The Village Board reserves the right to waive any and all of the above conditions as deemed
necessary to fit special circumstances.
Section II. This local law shall become effective immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(1)

(Complete the certlflcation in ttie paragraph that applies to thefliingof this iocal iaw and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify lhat the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
?of J9^..2,000
oflhe (<2omMX)()CS4H')^lb«ca)(Village) of -.Xrpton. on..hlucls,Qn
was duly passed by the
;e.es.....
on
2/A3....
accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.
(Name of Legislative

Body)

2. (Passage by iocal legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Offlcer*.)
1 hereby certify lhal the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No.
of 19^
of the (County)(City)(Town)(VilIage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19 - - , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative

Body)

disapproval) by the - (Elective Chief Executive

and was deemed duly adopted on

19— ,

Officer*)

in accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed herelo, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (Counly)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
—
on
19— , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Execuiive

on-

19— . Such local law was submitted

Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmalive vote of a majority of
the qualified eleclors voiing thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) eleclion held on—
19^ - , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petition was flied requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify lhal the local law annexed herelo, designated as local law No. —
of 19oflhe (Counly)(Cily)(Town)(\^llage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive

on

19 -- . Such local law was subjecl lo

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid pelilion requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19--- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer ofa county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county iegisiative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto iocal iaws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify lhal the local law annexed herelo, designaled as local law No.
of 19
of the Cily o f -having been submitted lo referendum pursuant lo the provisions of
seclion (36)(37) oflhe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote ofa majority ofthe
quaUfied eleclors of such cily voiing ihereon at the (special)(general) eleclion held on
-— 19—-,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify lhal the local law annexed herelo, designaled as local law No
of 19
of the Couniy of
-State of New York, having been submitted lo the eleclors
al the General Election of November
19—-, pursuant lo subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 oflhe
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmalive vole of a majority of the qualified eleclors of the cities ofsaid couniy as a unit and a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe towns ofsaid county considered as a unit
voiing al said general eleclion, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnaladoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certlflcation.)
I further certify lhat I have compared the preceding local law wilh the original on file in this office and lhal the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was .finaljy ^dopted in the manner indicated in paragraph—Q-D-S—, above.
/
^' /
mik)tmd(!mm^m^'^m^mTtmA^^
or officer designated by local legislanve body

(Seal)

cierk

Date:.

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Counsel, Town Attomey, Viiiage Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTYOF

WFSTnHFSTFR

I, the undersigned, hereby certify lhat the foregoing local law coniains the correct text and lhal all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature
iignature

\\ ))

^

Village Attorney
Title

of
Village
Date:
(3)

Croton on Hudson


