---
title: "LL 2-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-02-19
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 2-1999
Filed: 1999-02-19
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 2-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-02-19
---

Local Law 2-1999
Filed: 1999-02-19


7 n>*n 1 7 n^Aj JTT'/T'M rr

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

LOCai L U Wr u i n g

i62 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY.NY 12231

(Use this form tofliea local law with the Secretary of Stsite.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated aifi^/f^tei^^
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
' / i ^^^S^^
of

.CratDaTflaTHudson.

•* 9 fggg

Village

5^^*^
Local Law No

.4

of the year 19-^-

A local law ^ti;^:?!.'!.?]^?-*^^?.^*^^^^^
(liutMraU)

'

Within Chapter_230, Zoning, qf the^Croton^^^

Be It enacted by the ...yUIagfi.J&Qft?<3..of .trustees

ofthe

(Name ofLegidMtivt Bodyi

of . .Cr:o.tPXL-:fiO.-Hy(3son

as follows:

village

SECTION T, PURPOSE AND INTENT
The Waterfront Development District zoning provisions are intended to facilitate the
development of property along the Hudson River waterfront which is consistent with the
Village's Master Plan, the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program and the
Village's Greenway Vision Plan; which enhances and utilizes the potential of the Village's
riverfront; which strengthens the physical integrity of the Hudson River waterfront and the
economic viability of the Village; which expands the use and public accessibility to the
Village's Hudson River waterfront for the purposes of recreation, leisure and year-round
residents; and which encourages the development of larger tracts of land as single, unified
and comprehensiveprojects.

SECTION I L AMENDMENTS
A new Article V.A entitled Waterfront Development (WD) District shall be added to
Chapter 230 and shall read as follows:

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
IX}S.339(Rev. 7/91)

(1)

ARTICLE V. A
Waterfront Development (WD) District
§ 230-31.1

Purposes.

The Waterfront Development District zoning provisions are intended to facilitate the
development of property along the Hudson River waterfront while:
A.

Being consistent with the overall intent of the Village's Master Plan.

B.

Being consistent with the provisions of the Village's Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program.

C.

Being consistent with the overall intent of the Village's Greenway Vision
Plan.

D.

Enhancing and utilizing the potential of the Village's riverfront.

E.

Strengthening the physical integrity of the Hudson River waterfront and the
economic viability ofthe Village.

F.

Expanding the use and public accessibility to the Village's Hudson River
waterfront for purposes of recreation, leisure and year-roimd residence.

G.

Encouraging the development of larger tracts of land as single, unified and
comprehensive projects.

§ 230-31.2

EligibiUty.

Each Waterfront Development District shall be comprised of ten (10) or more
contiguous acres of dry-land imder single ownership, and shall have a minimum of
one thousand (1,000) feet of shoreline along the Hudson River.
§ 230-31.3
A.

General conditions.
Single development plan. The Waterfront Development District designation
shall require the tract so designated to be developed pursuant to one (1) site
development plan, covering the entirety of the designated tract of land and
showing the complete development of the site, including any phasing which
may be permitted or required in accordance with § 230-31.11 .E(4) below.

B.

Amendment to Zoning Map. A Waterfront Development District
designation shall be effected by the Village Board of Trustees as an
amendment to the Village's Zoning Map, in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Article XIV of this chapter, and such regulations as the Village
has adopted, or may in thefritureadopt, under such article.

C.

Site development plan approval. Proposed development of a tract of land in
a Waterfront Development District shall be subject to preliminary and fmal
site development plan approvals by the Planning Board, in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Article XI of this chapter, and such regulations as
the Village has adopted, or may in thefritiu*eadopt, under such article.
Notwithstanding the above, the Planning Board may employ a single-phase
site development plan review and approval process where, in the Planning
Board's judgment, said single-phase process will be equally protective of the
public health, safety and general welfare, and will serve equally to
implement the purposes enumerated in §§ 230-2 and 230-31.1 of this
chapter. Any changes in the uses, layout, buildings, structures, or other
aspects ofthe development shall require a site development plan amendment
and corresponding Planning Board review and approval in conformity with
the procedures set forth in Article XI and any regulations thereunder.

§ 230-31.4

Permitted uses.

No building or premises shall be used, and no building or part of a building shall be
erected or altered, which is arranged, intended, or designed to be used, in whole or in
part, for any uses except the following:
A.

B.

Recreational uses. The following recreation facilities:
(1)

Swimming, water-skiing, fishing, sailing and boating.

(2)

Ice skating.

(3)

Tennis, platform tennis and other racquet sports, handball, basketball,
and other similar sports.

(4)

Picnic areas, playgroimds and trails.

Residential uses. The followingtypes of residential development:
(1)

Attached or detached single-family dwellings.

(2)

Two-family dwellings.
3

C.

D.

(3)

Muhiple-family dwellings.

(4)

Recreational and public assembly facilities associated with residential
development.

Special permit uses. Subject to the issuance of a special permit by the
Village Board ofTrustees, the following uses:
(1)

Restaurants.

(2)

Marinas and yacht clubs.

(3)

Ferry terminals.

(4)

Docks and piers for any permitted use under this section.

(5)

Repair facilities for recreational boats.

(6)

Public utilities.

(7)

Municipal facilities subject to § 230-45 of this chapter.

(8)

Cultural uses:
(a)

Theatres for the performing arts.

(b)

Temporary art, craft and educational exhibits.

(c)

Band shells.

(d)

Museums.

Additional considerations. The Planning Board, before recommending
approval of a special permit for any ofthe uses set forth in § 230-31.4.C
above, and the Village Board before approving an application for such a
special permit, shall consider in addition to the requirements and objectives
set forth in Article X of this chapter, the following:
(1)

Compatibility of the proposed use(s) with the use(s) of adjacent
buildings and property.

(2)

Absence or prevalence of similar uses within the vicinity of the site
and within the Village.

§ 230-31.5

(3)

Off-street parking demands of the proposed use(s).

(4)

The public access aspects of the project in relation to the requirements
of §230-31.10 of this chapter.

(5)

Any other factors that may be deemed significant by either Board in
relation to the proposed use(s) and any neighboring use(s).

Accessory uses.

No accessory uses shall be permitted except for those which are deemed by the
Planning Board diuing the site development plan review process to be customarily
incidental to the permitted uses in §§ 230-31.4.A through C above and the following:
A.

Customary home occupations in accordance with the requirements of § 2309. A( 10)(a) of this chapter.

B.

Professional offices or studios in accordance with the requirements of § 2309.A(10)(b)of this chapter.

C.

Retail sales of items incidental to the conduct of non-residential uses
approved on thefinalsite development plan.

§ 230-31.6

Signs.

A.

Offices and studios. Signs for professional offices and studios shall be
subject to the limitations and standards set forth in § 230-9.A(10)(i) of this
chapter.

B.

Other uses. For uses not specified in paragraph A immediately above, one
(1) sign shall be permitted facing each streetfromwhich access to the lot is
provided. Such sign shall be applied onto the wall of a building, if any, shall
not exceed an area of twenty-four (24) square feet, and shall not extend
beyond said wall in any direction. I f there is no building, one (1)
freestanding sign shall be permitted, shall be no higher than ten (10) feet
above the ground, shall be no greater than twenty-four (24) square feet in
size, and shall be no closer than twenty-five (25) feet to the nearest lot line.
All light sources shall be shielded from the view of adjacent lots and streets
and shall, except for lights suitable for security purposes, be extinguished no
later than normal business hours as determined by the Planning Board during
the site development plan review process.

C.

Directional, trail, and project signs. Signage relating to vehicular, pedestrian
and bicycle usage, traffic and parking shall be permitted, as shall an entry
sign for the project itself The locations, sizes, colors, materials and
illumination of said signage shall be subject to the approval ofthe Planning
Board as part of the site development plan review process.

D.

All signs. All signs shall meet the standards of § 230-44 of this chapter.
Every effort shall be made to avoid the blockage of views in the placement
of signage on the site.

§ 230-31.7

Enclosure.

All permitted uses and all storage and accessory uses thereto, other than ofT-street
parking and recreational facilities and activities that by their nature are placed or
conducted out-of-doors (or such other uses as are deemed by the Planning Board
during the site development plan review process to be more appropriately conducted
in non-enclosed facilities), shall be carried on in structures frilly enclosed on all
sides. The outdoor storage of boats on dry land may be permitted, provided there is
adequate screening as shown on the approved site development plan.
§ 230-31.8

Landscaping.

The entire tract shall be suitably landscaped, as shown on the approved site
development plan. All landscaping shall be properly maintained throughout the life
of the approved uses ofthe development, in accordance with the provisions of § 23071 of this chapter.
§ 230-31.9

Bulk, height, and parking requirements.

The respective minimum and maximum requirements and standards for all uses shall
be as follows:
A.

Density.
(1)

Market-rate dwelling units. The residential density shall not exceed a
maximum of one (1) dwelling unit for every five thousand (5,000)
square feet of dry-land area.

(2)

Affordable dwelling units. The Village Board of Trustees may permit
additional dwelling imits not to exceed five percent (5%) of the
number calculated in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (I)
immediately above, if the additional dwelling imits are deemed by the

Board of Trustees to be affordable units. The affordable dwelling
units shall be integrated among the market-rate units in the project.
B.

Building height. The maximum building height shall be three (3) stories and
thirty-seven (37) feet, except that no building within seventy-five (75) feet of
the mean high water line of the shoreline shall exceed two (2) stories and
twenty-five (25) feet.

C.

Building length. The maximum horizontal dimension of any building or
structure shall not exceed two hundred andfifty(250) feet.

D.

Building spacing. The distance between any two (2) buildings shall not be
less than forty (40) feet, except that unenclosed decks of reasonable depths,
as determined by the Planning Board during site development plan review,
may extend into the forty (40) foot wide separation area.

E.

Open space. At least twenty percent (20%) of the tract of land shall
constitute "open space" as such term is defined by this chapter.

F.

Habitablefioorarea. The minimum habitablefioorarea per dwelling imit
shall be seven hundred andfifty(750) square feet, except for affordable
dwelling units in which case the minimum habitablefloorarea per dwelling
unit shall be six hundred (600)' square feet.

G.

Building coverage. The footprints of the buildings in the project shall not
exceed thirty percent (30%) of the total dry-land area of the tract.

H.

Floor area ratio. Thefloorarea ratio of the proposed use shall not exceed
fifty hundredths (0.50) of the dry-land area of the tract.

I.

Marina size.
(1)

The length of a marina in the project shall not exceed sixty percent
(60%) of the site's shoreline.

(2)

The maximum plan depth of a marina shall be the lesser of twelve
percent (12%) of the site's shoreline or three hundred (300) feet.

^ Editorial note: The exact amount offloorarea to be determined in concert with the Village's
Affordable Housing Committee.

J.

K.

Off-street parking spaces. The minimum number of off-street parking
spaces included in the project shall be:
(1)

Per dwelling unit: 2.0 spaces; plus a number of reserved guest spaces
to be determined by the Planning Board during the site development
plan review process; plus

(2)

Per employee: 1.0 space; plus

(3)

Per marina slip or mooring: 0.5 space; plus

(4)

For all other uses: spaces in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.

Setbacks. No structure, other than for a special permit use listed in § 23031.4.C above, shall be permitted within twenty-five (25) feet of the mean
high water line ofthe shoreline and no structure, regardless of use, shall be
permitted within twenty (20) feet of a street line or lot line, except as
specifically permitted by the Planning Board during the site development
plan review process based on a demonstration by the applicant that the
reduced setback will be sufficient to adequately separate adjacent land uses.

§ 230-31.10 Public access.
A.

Right-of-way or easement. In order to foster the purposes of this article, in
order to implement the policies expressed in the documents listed in § 23031.1 above, and in order to increase public pedestrian access to, and the
potential for enjoyment of the Hudson River waterfront, the site
development plan shall show a dry-land right-of-way or easement for the
enjoyment ofthe public, which easement shall be not less than twenty (20)
feet in width traversing the entire length of the site unless configured
otherwise by the Planning Board during the site development plan review
process. To the maximum extent practicable, said right-of-way or easement
shall be integrated so as to create linkages with existing and anticipated
public pedestrian and bicycle trail systems on adjacent lands.

B.

Public recreational and/or cultural facilifies. Ten percent (10%) of the total
dry-land area of the site shall be developed as suitable public recreational
and/or cultural facilities, identical or similar to those set forth in §§ 23031.4.A and C(8) of this chapter. In determining adherence to this
requirement, land used for public trails and walkways (excluding residential
sidewalks but including the right-of-way or easement required by § 23031.10.A immediately above), bike paths and boat launching facilities shall be
8

included. In meeting this requirement, a minimum of one-half (0.5) acre
shall be in the form of public recreational and/or cultural facilifies identical
or similar to those set forth in §§ 230-31.4.A and C(8), excluding associated
parking spaces.
C.

Meanings of "public." For the purposes of §§ 230-31.lO.A and B
immediately above, the usage of and access to the respective public facilities
shall be as determined by the Village Board of Trustees, on a case by case
basis, during the designation of a tract of land as a Waterfront Development
District; said facilities may be open to the general public or restricted to
Village residents as deemed appropriate by the Village Board. In any event,
usage of and access to such facilities shall either be at no cost or will require
no more than a nominal fee. If deemed appropriate by the Planning Board
during the site development plan review process, the common and private
recreational facilities specified in § 230-31.10.0 below may be allowed to
fiilfill part of the ten percent (10%) set aside for public recreational and/or
cultural facilities required in § 230-31. lO.B above.

D.

Other common and private recreational facilities. Residential developments
may also have other permitted recreational facilities which are common and
private to the development, and which may also be available to adjoining
development.

§ 230-31.11 Procedures for district designation and site development plan approval
A.

Designation. A Waterfront Development District shall be designated by the
Village Board of Trustees as an amendment to the Zoning Map on the
initiative ofthe Board ofTrustees or on petition ofthe owner of the tract of
land for which a Waterfront Development District designation is sought.

B.

Petition procedure. If the Waterfront Development District designation is
based upon a petitionfromthe owner of the tract of land, a petition for the
Waterfront Development District designation shall be filed with the Village
Board of Trustees, accompanied by such fee as the Village Board of
Trustees may from time to time set in the regulations associated with this
article. Such petition shall be supported by a site development plan
containing the information required by Article XI of this chapter, and such
regulations as the Village has adopted, or may adopt in the fiiture, under
such article. The submission shall also include the following documentation:
(1)

Evidence of how the proposed use(s) would meet the needs of the
residents of the project as well as general commimity needs.

(2)

Evidence that the proposal is generally compatible with the goals of
the Village's Master Plan, its Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, its Greenway Vision Plan, and the purposes of this article.

(3)

If the development is to be phased, a general indication of how the
phasing is to proceed. Whether or not the development is to be
phased, the site development plan shall show the total project.

C.

Referral to Planning Board and designafion decision. The proposed
designation of a Waterfront Development District by the Village Board of
Trustees or the petition for a Waterfront Development District designation
by the owner of the tract of land and all supporting submissions, shall be
referred by the Village Board of Trustees to the Planning Board. A
recommendation shall be made by the Plaiming Board to the Board of
Trustees piu'suant to and within the term provided by Article XIV of this
chapter. Subsequent to the receipt of the recommendation of the Planning
Board, or subsequent to the expiration of the above mentioned term without
the recommendation of the Plaiming Board, and after public hearing as
provided by Article XIV of this chapter and the conclusion of the State
Environmental Quality Review process, the Village Board of Trustees shall
act upon the petition.

D.

Designation conditions. A Waterfront Development District designation
may be contingent upon terms and conditions pertaining to, but not limited
to, mix of land uses, visual and acoustical screening, the sequence of
construction and/or occupancy, systems for vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, availability of sites for necessary public services, protection of
natural resources, and other such conditions that may be required for the
public health, safety and general welfare, and for the comfort and
convenience of the public in general and the residents and landovwiers of the
project and the immediate neighborhood in particular.

E.

Site development plan. Prior to development in a Waterfront Development
District, the owner of the tract of land or his designee shall submit to the
Planning Board a site development plan. The Planning Board shall be bound
by the terms and conditions of the Village Board ofTrustees' amendment to
the Village Zoning Map designating the tract of land as a Waterfront
Development District.
(1)

Access. The site development plan submission shall include a
detailed plan for the applicant's construction (and maintenance, if
dedication to the Village would not ensue) of vehicular and pedestrian
10

access to the site, if such access is not already provided adequately by
Village-maintainedstreets and roads.
(2)

Site development plan approval.
(a)

Site development plan approval shall be conditioned upon the
development being designed to adequately preserve an open
character with respect to principal views of the Hudson River
from residential areas of the Village as well as principal
views from the Hudson River to residential areas of the
Village, through the appropriate placement, spacing, height
and bulk of buildings and structures.

(b)

The Planning Board shall not approve any site development
plan covering less than the entirety of the tract of land
designatedas a Waterfront Development District.

(3)

Lapse of approval of site development plan. If no construction has
begun or if no use has been established in the project within one (1)
yearfromthe date of the adoption ofthe Planning Board's resolution
of site development plan approval (final site development plan
approval in the case ofa two-phase process), said approval shall lapse
and be of nofiulhereffect. If construction has begun or if the use has
been established within said one (1) year period, but if the
development has not been completed within three (3) years of said
approval, then said approval shall, except as provided in § 23031.11.E(4) of this chapter relating to the phasing of development,
lapse and be of nofiirthereffect in relation to the uncompleted part of
the development. The Planning Board may, in its discretion, extend
said three (3) year completion period, upon application prior to its
expiration, if such extension is warranted by the particular
circumstances of the development.

(4)

Phasing of development. The Village Board of Trustees in its
amendment to the Village Zoning Map designating a Waterfront
Development District based upon a petition by a land ovmer, or the
Planning Board in its approval of the site development plan, may
permit or require that such development be phased over a number of
years, and may direct the chronological order of development. In
such case, the term beyond which failure to complete the
development shall result in a lapse of the Planning Board's approval
under § 230-31.11.E(3) above shall be stipulated by the Board of
Trustees or Planning Board for each phase of development. The
11

public recreational and/or cultural facilities required by § 230-31. lO.B
of this chapter and any other recreational and/or cultural facilities
shall not constitute thefinalphases ofthe project.

F.

(5)

Guarantee of performance. The Planning Board shall, as a condition
of site development plan approval, require a performance guarantee
with terms satisfactory to said Board, for the purpose of guaranteemg
performance by the applicant with respect to improvements and
infrastructure to be offered in dedication to the Village, erosion and
sedimentation control measures, and potential site restoration
measures, regarding the approved site development plan.

(6)

Amendment of the site development plan. Any application for
amendment of an approved site development plan shall be processed
by the Planning Board in the same maimer as an original site
development plan application, except to the extent that the required
infonnation is contained on the approved site development plan. In
acting upon an application for such amendment, the Plaiming Board
shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the Village Board of
Trustee's amendment to the Village Zoning Map designating the tract
as a Waterfront Development District.

Amendment of Waterfront Development District designation. The Village
Board of Trustees may amend the designation of a tract of land as a
Waterfront Development District as an amendment to the Village Zoning
Map, in accordance with the procediu*es set forth in Article XIV of this
chapter. Upon such amendment, all uses, bulk and parking regulations, and
other provisions and conditions affecting the development of such tract of
land, shall be those of the new zoning district designation of said tract.

SECTION IIL EFFECTIVE DATE
This local law shall take effect immediately upon itsfilingwith the Secretary of State.
SECTION IV. SEPARABILITY
The provisions of this local law are separable and if any provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part thereof is held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional, or inapplicable
to any person or circumstance, such illegality, invalidity, unconstitutionality, or
inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, clauses, sentences.

12

subsections, words, or parts of this local law or their application to other persons or
circumstances. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that this local law would
have been adopted if such illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part had not been included therein, and if such person or circumstance,
to which the local law or part thereof is held inapplicable, had been specifically exempt
therefrom.
100\cro7-005.dhs.cre:ev

13

(Complete the certlflcation In the paragraph that applies to theflllngof this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
L (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
?of 19-^^ofthe (««««Wl(C%0C2»»**XVillage) of ..-.PXQtOA.PA.Hydson
was duly passed
passec by the
...PA3T.^..PX-T-CkStees
on 19.39, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
/Name of LtgisUtivt Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Offlcer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
- was duly passed by the
-—
on
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Bodyi

disapproval) by the

-

and was deemed duly adopted on --

19----,

(EUctive Chief Executive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
-on -19----, and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name of LegisUtive Body)

disapproval) by the

- - on

19— . Such local law was submitted

(Elective Ckief Executive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote ofa majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
ISt--- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law,

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby ceitify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of -was duly passed by the
—
on
— 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLtgUlative Bodyi

disapproval) by the

—

-

on

—- 1 9 - - . Such local law was subject to

(EUctive Ckief Executive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

— 19.--- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive officer ofa county elected on a countywide basis or^ If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
-of 19
ofthe City o f - . — .
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19---,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
—
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—-, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
1 further certify that I have compared the preceding local law wilh the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such ori^al local law, a;id vfSi^ finely ^opt€ja in the manner indicated in paragraph.-?-'^^----, above.
/ J"/ J
i \ i/i

or officer designated by local legislative body
•3t

(Seal)

Date:

2/5/99

(Certlflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Counsel, Tbwn Attomey, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF
WFSTrHF^TER

I , the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Sigoature

V i l l a g e Attorney
Tillc

;<3DWtty

QiJix
Village

Croton on Hudson


