---
title: "LL 2-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-03-09
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 2-2001
Filed: 2001-03-09
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 2-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-03-09
---

Local Law 2-2001
Filed: 2001-03-09


Local L a w Filing

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT o f s ™
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

^jpj^ QF NEW YORK

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated anfll^^fiOMSI^^J^^^
anfiliBAfiOMBI^^J
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
F | L E

Croton on Hudson

MAR 0 9 2001

Village

'

2

Local Law No.
Alocallaw

of the year 20-

^

S«crettfy of Slato

01

amending the compensation of the Mayor and Trustees
(Insert

Title)

in accordance with Chapter 54 of the Village Code

Be it enacted by the

MarJ__pf .Trustee_s
(Name of Legislative

2

of-

ofthe

Body)

croton on Hudson

_

_

Village

Section 1. The Mayor of the Village of Croton on Hudson, New York,
shall be compensated at the rate of five thousand dollars
($5,000.) per annum.
Section 2. Each Trustee of the Village of Croton on Hudson, New York,
shall be compensated at the rate of three thousand dollars
($3,000.) per annum.
Section 3. This local law shall take effect June 1, 2002.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev. 11/99)

(1)

3

(Complete the certiflcation in the paragraph that applies to the flllng of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
2

01
- of 20-.'-.-

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as. local law No
.... ° ? A L ? - ° J . . j T M h ? 5 . ? .
(Name of Legisialive

°f

Hudson _

on—-4/,4.^.

20-^-1 in accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

^^ly p^^^^^

Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Eiective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20 - - , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislaiive

Body}

disapproval) by the
(Elective ChiefExeculive

and was deemed duly adopted on

20— ,

Officer*}

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on
20— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Execulive

on

- 20

Such local law was submitted

Officer*}

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
2 0 - - , in
accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
—
on
20— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the-(Elective Chief Executive

on

20--- . Such local law was subject to

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

20—. , in

•Elective ChiefExeculive Officer means or includes the chiefexecutive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor ofa city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 20—,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
- of 20
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
20—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 ofsection 33 ofthe
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities ofsaid county as a unit and a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe towns ofsaid county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(Ifany other authorized form offinaladoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally ad9pte/d in the manner in-

Clerk of the County legislative body, dti^, "fiii^^fr \nilage Clerk
or ofGcer designated by local legislative body

(Seal)

Date:

/ ^ \

(Certification to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locaiity.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTYOF WESTCHESTER
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature

Village Attorney
Title

(Mj^

Croton on Hudson

Village
Dale:
(3)


