---
title: "LL 3-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-03-22
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 3-2001
Filed: 2001-03-22
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 3-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-03-22
---

Local Law 3-2001
Filed: 2001-03-22


T n r n l T n^A) T ^ i l i n a

NEWYORKSTATEDEPARTMENTOFSTATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY. NY 12231

J ^ U ^ U l J^U.VV X t f t / ^ g

(Use this form to flle a local law with the Secretary of State.)
,
.
. ,
STATEC5P>«WyOTK
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not mclude matter being eliminated anctD^MinittMTOF STATE
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
Gtt^K

p

Croton-on-Hudson

^"'^ge

1)

-

L |^

Q

MAR 2 2 2001

^

LocalLawNo.

|

^

Secretary of Stat.)

of the year^l^K^.aOOl

t o amend and add d e f i n i t i o n s t o Section 230-U.

A local law
(Insert Title}

2) t o replace A r t i c l e 230-UU o f the Zoning Code and consolidate and amend
the signage standards t h a t are s p e c i f i c to'the"respective'Y^
i n the
Village'and are c u r r e n t l y dispersed throughout t h e Zoning Lav.
3") t o delete and amend the disperse provisions t h a t have l^een consolidated
i n t o A r t i c l e 230-Ul^-.
w,^v,+
amend Section 230-68.D(U) (g) pertaining to elements of a site developBlit'en^a'c't^ by the
Trust ees
^^^^^
(Name ofLegistative Body)

Croton-on-Hudson
«f

as follows:

Village
Section 1. Section 230-4 is hereby amended:
1. to delete the definition of SiGN to be replaced with:
"SIGN — A n y structure or part thereof, or any device attached thereto or painted
thereon, or any material or thing, illuminated or otherwise, which displays or includes
any numeral, letter, word, model, banner, emblem, pennant, insignia, trademark,
device or other representation used as or which is in the nature of an advertisement,
announcement, designation, display, attraction or directive not required by law ofany
person, firm, group, organization, commodity, service, profession or enterprise, when
placed in such manner that it provides visual communication to the general public
out-of-doors, but not including:
A. Signs maintained or required to be maintained by law or governmental order;
B. The flag or insignia of any government or governmental agency;
C. The flag of any civic, political, charitable, religious, fraternal or similar
organization, which is hung on a flagpole or mast;
D. Religious or other seasonal holiday decorations, which do not contain
commercial lettering, wording, designs, symbols or other devices."
2. to delete the definition of SIGN AREA to be replaced with:
"SIGN AREA — Includes all faces of a sign measured as follows:
A.

When a sign is on a plate or framed or outlined, all of the area of such plate or

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

B.

the area enclosed by such frame or outline shall be included. The signage
supports which affix the sign to the ground or to a structure shall not be included
in the sign area, unless such supports are evidently designed to be part of the
sign as defined herein. Where a sign consists of several individual faces, the
sign area shall be the aggregate area of all such faces which can be observed
from any one (1) point.
When a sign consists only of letters, symbols, designs or figures engraved,
painted, projected or in any manner affixed on a wall, the "area" of such sign
shall be deemed to be that ofthe smallest single basic geometric shape (e.g.
square, rectangle, triangle or circle) which encompasses all the letters, symbols
designs or figures."

3. to add the definition of SIGN, FREESTANDING as follows:
"SIGN, FREESTANDING - A sign which does not depend upon a building for its
main support."
4. to add the definition of SIGN, PORTABLE as follows:
"SIGN, PORTABLE - Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, including but not limited to signs designed to be transported on
wheels or by other means, blimps, or other similar vessels such as large balloons."

Section 2. Article 230-44 A, B, C and D is hereby replaced by Article 230-44 A through Q as follows:
A.

Intent. The purposes ofthe signage regulations set forth in this chapter are: to
encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication in the Village; to
minimize possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public and private properties; to
maintain and enhance the visual and aesthetic environment; to improve pedestrian
and vehicular traffic safety; and, to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of
these sign regulations by the Village.
B. Conformance. Any sign shall be erected, replaced, moved or modified in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. All actions related to questions of conformance
shall be subject to the review and decision thereon by the Planning Board. See
Subsection K below for the regulation of Temporary Signs. Where the provisions of
Subsections D through O below may be in conflict with the signage provisions relating
specifically to the respective zoning districts in Subsection P below, the latter
provisions shall apply.
C. Application Process.

-2-

(1)

Except as provided in Subsection K in connection with Temporary Signs, the
Village Engineer shall receive, review and comment on conformance for all
completed applications to erect, replace, move or modify signs. The Village
Engineer shall then fonward applications that are in substantial compliance to
the Visual Environment Board (VEB) within five (5) business days for VEB
review and recommendation on the issuance of a sign permit. The Visual
Environment Board's opinion shall be rendered to the Village Engineer and/or
Planning Board within twenty-one (21) days of receipt of said application. If the
signage is part of an application for a Site Plan approval or a Change of Use
approval, the Planning Board's decision on the Site Plan shall include its
decision on the proposed signage.
(2)
The payment of an application fee in accordance with the Village's schedule of
fees shall accompany all sign permit applications.
(3)
The Village Engineer and VEB shall maintain a book of photographs and/or
drawings representing the types and styles of signs preferred in the Village in
order to assist in expediting the application process.
D. Relationship to Use. All signs, except for Temporary Signs and except for the kind of
billboards permitted in Subsection M below, must pertain to a use conducted on the
same property on which the sign is located.
E. Illumination.
(1) Permitted signs may be illuminated, except where this chapter specifically
prohibits certain signs from being Illuminated. However, sign Illumination shall not
be twinkling, flashing, Intermittent (except for time / temperature signs), or of
changing degrees of color or Intensity. Further, neon signs shall only be permitted
on the Inside of buildings. No sign shall contain or consist of Day-Glo-like
material.
(2) All light sources used for Illuminating signage shall be shielded and shall not be a
source of glare.
(3) Upon refen^al by the Village Engineer and/or VEB, the Planning Board may require
the submission of an Illumination plan and may regulate the number, placement,
Intensity and hours of illumination of all light fixtures used for signage.
F. Placement. No sign shall be located so as to obscure any signs displayed by a public
authority, nor shall any sign be placed in such a way as to obstruct proper vehicular
sight distance. Further, signs shall not interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic
flow, nor shall any sign Interfere with any ventilation system, door, window, fire escape
or other emergency exit.
G. Movement, animation, removable letters, lights. No sign or sign component shall be
moving, animated, rotating or revolving. Further, no sign shall contain removable
letters, except for signs associated with educational, religious, or municipal
institutions, gas stations, or with movie theaters. In addition, light strips and strings of
lights shall not be used for advertising or attracting attention to a sign when they do
not comprise the text ofthe sign.
H. Maintenance and quality of signs. All signs and components thereof shall be kept In
good repair and In safe, neat and clean condition. All signs and related Illumination
shall be of a professional quality with respect to such matters as design, painting,
lettering, materials and construction.
I. Nonconforming signs. All signs that do not conform to the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to the requirements of §§ 230-53 and 230-54 herein.
J. Projecting signs. Marquee signs are permitted for theaters only. For all projecting
signs, there shall be at least an eight (8) foot clearance above pedestrian rights-ofway and at least a fourteen (14) foot clearance above vehicular rights-of-way for

permitted signs projecting from buildings. Signs shall not project vertically above the
roofline or parapet, or extend horizontally beyond the limits ofthe building.
K. Temporary signs.
(1)
Temporary signs are those which are displayed for short periods of time.
Unless specified othenvise below, all temporary signs shall be limited in usage
to a maximum of forty-five (45) days. Signs shall not be considered temporary
if they are effectively displayed on an on-going basis, interrupted by short
Intervals when they are not displayed.
(2)
The following types of temporary signs do not require a signage permit:
(a)
"For Sale", Tor Rent" or "Sold" signs. No more than two (2)
temporary signs, not exceeding six (6) square feet in area each, are
allowed for a single lot. One (1) temporary sign, sixteen (16) square
feet in area is permitted for each real estate subdivision, set back at
least fifteen (15) feet from the street line upon which the property Is
located. This signage usage shall be allowed beyond forty-five (45)
days.
(b)
Temporary construcfion signs. The architect, engineer and
contractors shall each be allowed one (1) sign not exceeding six (6)
square feet In area. Such signs shall be permitted during the enfire
course of construction, but shall be removed at the end of
construction.
(c)
Temporary signs pertaining to elecfion campaigns. Such signs shall
not be subject to the forty-five (45) day limitafion in Subsecfion K (1)
above, but shall be removed within ten (10) days afterthe Election
Day.
(d)
Temporary signs pertaining to garage sales, tag sales or other
business activities which have a duration of seven (7) calendar days
or less.
(e)
Temporary signs pertaining to events of civic, philanthropic,
educafional or religious institutions shall not be subject to the size
limitafion contained In Subsection K (4).
(3)

Payment of a review fee in accordance with the Village's schedule of fees shall
accompany the applicafion for signs which are subject to the Issuance of a
temporary sign permiL
(4)
Except as provided in Subsections K(2) (a)-(e), temporary signs shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet In area and shall not be Illuminated.
(5)
Temporary signs shall not have an adhesive backing and must be easily
removable without residual markings.
(6)
Temporary signs must also conform to all of the other provisions of this
chapter, except with respect to being of a professional quality as required in
Subsection H, above.
L. Freestanding signs. No freestanding sign shall extend more than ten (10) feet from
the ground to the top ofthe sign, except for a freestanding sign associated with a
shopping center or a motor vehicle service stafion, which shall not extend more than
twenty (20) feet from the ground to the top of the sign.
M. Prohibifions. The following types of signs and artificial lighfing are prohibited:
(1)
Billboards, except for those which are exisfing on the effective date of these
regulations and which are associated with a site which Is on the National
Register of Historic Places.
(2)
Signs that compete for attention with or may be mistaken for a traffic signal.

(3)
(4)

Searchlights, beacons, blimps and permanent balloons.
Signs attached to or painted on trucks or other large vehicles when the vehicle
Is obviously marked and parked In such a manner as to advertise or attract
attenfion to an establishment or business.
(5)
Banners, flags, strings of balloons, flags or lights, or similar outdoor advertising,
except on a temporary basis with respect to the opening, reopening or
remodeling of the business (that is, limited to a maximum duration of forty-five
[45] days).
N. Consistent signage. Where a building or site Is permitted more than one (1) sign by
the provisions ofthis chapter, all new signs shall be consistent relative to one another
In terms of size, general shape and. If building-mounted, locafion on the building
(mounfing height). Further, the Planning Board may require the submission of a
master signage plan forthe site, which shows said consistency.
O. Window signs. The combinafion of permanent and temporary signage applied to or
placed within two (2) feet of the interior of any given window shall be considered part
ofthe signage In accordance with the provisions ofthis chapter. Further, In no event
shall permanent window signage exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the window on
or within which It is located. Merchandise for sale Is not considered part of the
signage for purposes of this Item.
P. District standards. The following signage shall be permitted within the districts listed
below and shall be regulated therein, as follows. Said signage shall also conform to
the provisions of Subsections A through O above, as qualified In Subsecfion B.
(1)
One-Family Residence RA-40, RA-25. RA-9, RA-5 Districts; Two-Family
Residence RB District; Multiple Residence RC District.
(a)
With respect to nurseries and the seasonal sale of produce, signs shall
conform to Subsecfion P(1)(e) below.
(b)
With respect to funeral homes, there shall be no signs other than those
permitted In Subsecfion P(1)(e) below.
(c)
With respect to customary home occupafions, no display of signage
shall be visible from the street, except as set forth In Subsection P(1)(e)
below.
(d)
With respect to bed-and-breakfast establishments, one (1) sign
designating a bed-and-breakfast establishment shall be permitted,
subject to the following conditions:
[1]
The area ofthe sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet.
[2]
If freestanding, the overall height ofthe sign shall not exceed six
(6) feet as measured from finished grade to top of sign. NOTE:
Refer to §230-4, the definifion of "building," and § 23040.A(1)(b) ofthis chapter.
[3]
The sign shall not be internally Illuminated.
[4]
If externally illuminated, the Illuminafion shall not exceed the
equivalent of a one-hundred-watt bulb.
[5]
If illuminated, the Illuminafion shall be constant shall be
directed towards the sign and shall be shielded from the view of
the street and neighboring properties.
(e)
Signs conforming to the following shall be permitted as accessory uses:
[1]
One (1) non-illuminated nameplate or professional sign with an
area of not over two (2) square feet.
[2]
One (1) externally Illuminated buliefin board or other
announcement sign for educafional or religious Institufions

(2)
(3)

(4)
(5)

permitted In § 230-9.A(4) ofthis chapter, with an area of not
over twelve (12) square feet.
Limited Office 0-1 District. One (1) non-illuminated sign facing a street and not
exceeding an area of five (5) square feet shall be permitted.
Limited Office 0-2 District. One (1) sign shall be permitted, provided that such
sign Is facing a street and as follows:
(a)
The aggregate area. In square feet, shall be not greater than one and
one-half (VA) fimes the length, In feet, ofthe wall on which it Is placed.
(b)
Such sign shall be parallel or perpendicular to the face of the building
and no part thereof, Including any lllumlnafing devices, shall project
more than twelve (12) Inches outward from the face of the wall to which
it is applied for parallel signs and no more than thirty-six (36) inches
outward from the face ofthe wall to which It Is applied for perpendicular
signs.
Limited Office 0-3 District. The permitted signage shall be the same as
permitted in a Limited Office 0-1 District.
Central Commerciai C-1 District.
(a)
Signs, accessory to an establishment located on the same lot shall be
permitted, provided that such signs shail be limited as set forth In
Subsection P(5)(b) below and as follows:
[1]
Not more than one (1) such sign, excluding signs In windows,
shall be permitted for each tenant on the premises on each
fagade which fronts on a street.
[2]
The aggregate area. In square feet, of all signs on any wall shall
be not greater than two (2) times the length. In feet, ofthe wall
on which it Is placed.
[3]
Such sign or signs shall be parallel or perpendicular to the face
ofthe building and no part thereof, induding any lllumlnafing
devices, shall project more than twelve (12) Inches outward
from the face ofthe wall to which it Is applied for parallel signs
and no more than thirty-six (36) inches outward from the face of
the wall to which It Is applied for perpendicular signs.
[4]
In addition, where the building Is set back from the curb line a
distance of twenty-five (25) feet or more, not more than one (1)
freestanding sign with a total area on each face of not more
than forty (40) square feet may be erected; provided, however,
that the Zoning Board of Appeals may, in accordance with the
procedure set forth in § 230-75.B of this chapter, authorize the
Village Engineer to issue a special permit for the erecfion or
continuance of a freestanding sign with an area on each face
not exceeding forty (40) square feet or such lesser area as the
Zoning Board of Appeals may prescribe In Instances where the
building Is set back from the curb or edge of traveled way less
than twenty-five (25) feet but fifteen (15) feet or more, subject to
such conditions as the Board of Appeals may Impose and with
due regard to safety and other factors set forth In § 230-75. B
where the Board shall find that:
[a]
The building in connecfion with which such sign Is used
or to be used was In existence on July 1, 1963, and has
not after that date been altered to cause it to be closer
to the curb line or edge of traveled way; and

[b]

(6)

(7)

(8)

Other permitted signs are not, because of lack of
visibility or other reason, adequate in the determinafion
of the Zoning Board of Appeals and, for that or other
reason, the Zoning Board of Appeals deems such sign
to be necessary or desirable,
(b)
Motor vehicle service stations.
[1]
Unless otherwise required by law, signs shall be limited to one
(1) freestanding sign and one (1) exterior sign on each wall of a
building fronting on a street and shall othenwise conform to the
conditions for accessory signs set forth In Subsecfion P(5)(a).
[2]
In connection with the sale of used cars or rental of vehicles at
a service stafion. No temporary signs shall be permitted on the
exterior of vehicles. Signs In the Interior of vehicles shall be
limited to one (1) per vehicle, not to exceed twelve by fifteen (12
x 15) Inches. Sign prinfing shall have characters not larger than
one (1) Inch.
General Commercial C-2 District.
(a)
Accessory signs shall be as permitted in the Central Commercial C-1
District as set forth In Subsection P(5).
(b)
Drive-In theaters. In lieu of signs other than a sign permitted by
Subsection P(5)(a)[4], a drive-in theater may have:
[1 ]
The name of the theater on a sign affixed to the theater screen
structure on the reverse side ofthe screen; and
[2]
A supplementary sign on that same face announcing the
feature attracfion or attractions and containing other Information
customarily contained In theatrical announcements or the
opening or closing date of the theater.
(c)
Motor vehicle sales and service agencies.
[1]
Unless othenwise required by law, signs shall be limited to one
(1) freestanding sign and one (1) extenor sign on each wall of a
building fronfing on a street and shall othenwlse conform to the
condifions for accessory signs set forth in Subsecfion P(5)(a).
[2]
No temporary signs shall be permitted on the exterior of
vehicles. Signs in the interior of vehicles shall be limited to one
(1) per vehicle, not to exceed twelve by fifteen (12x15) inches.
Sign prinfing shall have characters not larger than one (1) Inch.
Light Industrial Ll District.
Accessory signs. One (1) sign shall be permitted facing each street from which
access to the lot is provided. Such sign shall be applied onto the wall of the
building and shall not exceed an area of fifty (50) square feet or an area equal
to one and one-half (114) fimes the length, in feet, of the wall on which it is
placed, whichever Is less. All light sources shall be shielded from the view of
adjacent lots and streets and shall, except for lights suitable for security
purposes, be exfinguished not later than 9:00 p.m. One (1) identlficafion sign
at each point of access to the lot, with an area of not more than three (3)
square feet, shall also be permitted. A single directory sign, not exceeding
eight (8) feet In height, may be erected at the entrance of a complex of sites;
each llsfing on such sign shall not exceed eight (8) Inches In height and two (2)
feet In length.
Waterfront Commercial WC District.

-7-

Accessory signs. One (1) sign shall be permitted facing each street from which
access to the lot Is provided. Such sign shall be applied onto the wall ofthe
building, if any, and such sign shall not exceed an area of thirty (30) square
feet or an area equal to one and one-half (VA) fimes the length. In feet, ofthe
wall on which it Is placed, whichever is less. If there Is no building, one (1)
freestanding sign shall be permitted, no higher than ten (10) feet from the
ground, no greater than thirty (30) square feet In area, and no closer than
twenty-five (25) feet to the nearest lot line. All light sources shall be shielded
from the view of adjacent lots and streets and shall, except for lights suitable
for security purposes, be extinguished no later than normal business hours as
determined by the Planning Board.
(9)
Waterfront Development WD District.
(a) Offices and studios. Signs for professional offices and studios shall be
subject to P(1)(e) ofthis chapter.
(b) Other uses. For uses other than specified In P(9)(a) above, one sign shall
be permitted facing each street from which access to the lot is provided.
Such sign shall be applied onto the wall of a building, if any, shall not
exceed an area of 24 square feet and shall not extend beyond said wall In
any direcfion. If there Is no building, one freestanding sign shall be
permitted, shall be no higher than 10 feet above the ground, shall be no
greater than 24 square feet In size and shall be no closer than 25 feet to
the nearest lot line. All light sources shall be shielded from the view of
adjacent lots and streets and shall, except for lights suitable for security
purposes, be extinguished no later than normal business hours as
determined by the Planning Board during the site development plan review
process.
(c) Directional, trail and project signs. Signage relafing to vehicular, pedestrian
and bicycle usage, traffic and parking shall be permitted, as shall an entry
sign forthe project Itself. The locafions, sizes, colors, materials and
illuminafion of said signage shall be subject to the approval of the Planning
Board as part ofthe site development plan review process.
(d) All signs. All signs shall meet the standards of Secfion 230-44 of this
chapter. Every effort shall be made to avoid the blockage of views in the
placement of signage on the site.
(10)
Supplementary regulations for any parking spaces adjacent to residence
districts. Identification and directional signs shall not exceed an area of three
(3) square feet each and shall be limited to such as are essential for the
particular use.
Q. Modification of requirements. Where the Planning Board finds that strict compliance
with the requirements of §230-44 would cause unusual hardship or difficulty because
of the specific circumstances of a particular situafion, the Board may modify the
requirements of said section so long as the Board finds that the public interest will be
protected, and that any such modification will be consistent with the spirit and intent of
this chapter. In permitting any such modificafion, the Planning Board may attach such
conditions as are, In Its judgment, necessary to substantially secure the objectives of
the requirement so modified.
Secfion 3. Chapter 230-9.A.(1) Is hereby amended to read: "The raising of field and garden crops,
vineyard and orchard farming, the maintenance of nurseries and the seasonal sale ofthe
products thereof, provided that no building Is erected and signs conform with Section 23044P(1)(e)."

Chapter 230-9.A.(8)(b) Is hereby amended to read: 'There shall be no signs other than
those permitted in Section 230-44P(1)(e)."
Chapter 230-9.A.(10)(a)[1] pertaining to customary home occupafions is hereby amended
to read: "There shall be no signs other than those permitted In Secfion 230-44P(1)(e)."
Chapter 230-9.A.(10)(h)[11][a] through [e] pertaining to bed-and-breakfast establishments
is hereby amended to read: "There shall be no signs other than those permitted In Section
230-44P(1)(e)."
Chapter 230-9.A.(10)(l)[1] through [3] pertaining to signage Is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-15.A.(3) pertaining to Limited Office 0-1 District is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-15.B. (2)(a) and (b) pertaining to Limited Office 0-2 District is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-15.C pertaining to Limited Office 0-3 District Is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-16.A.(8)(a) through (d) pertaining to Central Commercial
C-1 District Is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-16.A.(13)(k) pertaining to motor vehicle service stafions Is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-16.A.(13)(n)[2] pertaining to vehicle sales Is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-17.C pertaining to Central Commercial C-2 District Is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-17. E.(1) and (2) pertaining to theaters Is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-18.E pertaining to Light Industrial Ll District is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-19.E pertaining to Waterfront Commercial WC District Is hereby deleted.
Chapter 230-31.6 pertaining to Waterfront Development WD District is hereby deleted.
Secfion 4. Section 230-68.D.(4)(g) pertaining to site development plans will be replaced with the
following:
"The proposed locafion, direction, power and fime of proposed outdoor lighfing by means
of data, details and an illuminafion contour plan which shows that lighfing equal to or
greater than one-half (34) foot candle will not splay off-site."
Section 5. This local law shall become effective upon filing in the office ofthe Secretary of State.

(Complete the certiflcation In the paragraph that applies to thefliingof this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by iocal legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed heretp, designated as local law No
of i9l..2.Q01
ofthe (aMit^)(n«i^)PMi^(Village) of
?XP1?JI..9J]. .Uii^iSOr.
was duly passed by the
..__Eo^r.l.Qf-J.i:iJS.t£as
on —
J^m 2S0^in accordance with the appHcable provisions of law.
(Name ofLegistative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Offlcer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(\^llage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegistative Body)

disapproval) by the

-

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Tbwn)(\^llage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegistative Body)

disapproval) by the

on

19

Such local law was submitted

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

to the people by reason ofa (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote ofa majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19-— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petition was flled requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Tbwn)(ViBagc) tjf --^
—
was duly passed by the
on
19-— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegistative Body)

disapproval) by the—~

on

19 — . Such local law was subject to

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19—- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive offlcer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor ofa city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City locai law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of
----- having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—-,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the quahfied electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(Ifany other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and w^s finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph——-—-, above.
^/
j
.edu^^:i^iiil£UaKrKKjfl^X^
or ofOcer designated by lo<^ legisl^ve body

(Seal)

vmage cierk

Date:

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)

'^^^T''°lSTCHESTER
COUNTYOF

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment ofthe local lawannexed hereto.

Signature

*J

"

Village Attorney
Title

<s;jtj(

f

Village
Date:
(3)

Croton on Hudson

V


