---
title: "LL 3-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-07-05
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 3-2000
Filed: 2000-07-05
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 3-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-07-05
---

Local Law 3-2000
Filed: 2000-07-05


NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

LocaiLaw Filing

(Use this form to flle a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matler being eliminaled and
italics or underlining to indicale new malter.

^I^yf^?...^?,,)^)^A^^?t

cm of.

-

'J*^'^

rJ^**^-

Village
Local Law No.
A local law

of the year Jf*-2P00

.?s?At^JAshi_ng__a t_em^^^^
(Insert

Tille)

and development in the Village of Croton on Hudson

Board of Trustees^

Be it enacted by the
nf

(Ni»me ofLegislative

ofthe

Body)

Croton on Hudson

asfoliows:

Village
§1:

SHORTTITLE
This local law shall be known and may be cited as the Year 2000 Development

Moratorium Law ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

§ II:

LEGISLATIVE INTENT
In or about 1977, the Viiiage of Croton-on-Hudson Planning Board adopted a

Comprehensive Zoning Plan, known as the Master Plan, to regulate land development
throughout the Village. No comprehensive examination of the Master Plan has been
undertaken since that time, although the Village has experienced substantial changes in
building construction and development in the interim. In 1999, the Village Board of Trustees
created a Comprehensive Plan Committee pursuant to Village Law Section 7-722 to review,
update and revise the Village's Master Plan to meet current conditions and current needs.

146731

The establishment ofthe Comprehensive Plan Committee was prompted by the
Village's concern about land use and development in the Village, County and region, and
about the present standards ofthe Village contained in its local law and regulations and the
Village's intent to update and revise its local law and regulations to conform to a revised
Comprehensive Plan.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson is also concerned about the adequacy of its
infrastructure and other public services to absorb and support new building and
development.
The Comprehensive Plan Committee has begun to conduct research, studies
and surveys and wilt present findings and recommendations on new legislation to the Village
Board of Trustees and public, through the media, at public meetings, and at formal public
hearings. This procedure is intended to lead to the adoption of a revised and updated
Comprehensive Plan and of new local laws and amendments to existing local laws and
regulations as aforementioned.
Upon the recommendation ofthe Comprehensive Plan Committee, the Village
Board of Trustees finds that, pending the completion ofthe necessary survey, studies,
meetings, public hearings, and other acts incident to due consideration ofthe studies
undertaken and legislation contemplated, proper and necessary measures must be taken to
preserve and protect the public interest and the integrity of the Comprehensive Plan.
Pursuant to authority duly vested in it, it is the intention of the Village Board of
Trustees to preserve and protect any revisions and amendments of existing local laws and
regulations and to assure that infrastructure and other public services and facilities do not
become overburdened while studies as to their adequacy are undertaken, by adopting
reasonable protective interim regulations during the preparation and consideration of such
studies and of revisions and amendments to the Village's Master Plan and to local laws and
subdivisions regulations. This will serve to protect the public interest and prevent premature

146731

development which could prejudice the objective of any changes and of the revised
Comprehensive Plan itself.

§ III.

CONTROLS AND PROHIBITIONS
During the effective period ofthis law:
A. Neither the Village Board of Trustees, the Planning Board, the Zoning Board

of Appeals, the Village Manager-Clerk, the Village Engineer, or any other Village body,
officer or employee shall: (a) accept or process applications for, or grant, site plan
approvals, special use permits or subdivision plat approvals, in the following zoning Districts:
Central Commercial C-l, General Commercial C-2, Limited Office 0-1, Limited Office 0-2,
Limited Office 0-3 and Light Industrial Ll; or (b) accept or process applications for, or grant,
subdivision plat approvals in any Residential District, or (c) accept or process any rezoning
application in any District.
B.

Section A shall not be applicable to applications received prior to June 1,

C.

Notwithstanding Sections A and B, the above:

2000.

(a) a special permit allowing only a change of use in a commercial district
with respect to an existing building, or a special permit for an accessory use in a residential
district as specified in Section 230.9A(10)(g) and (h) and in Section 230-41, or a renewal of
a special permit previously issued, may be processed and granted by the body empowered
to issue such permit but only upon an express finding by such body that the proposed
permitted use will not result in any material change to the neighborhood or to the building to
which the permit applies; and
(b) an amended site plan that primarily addresses issues of public health
and safety without intensifying the permitted use may be processed and granted upon an

146731

express finding by the body empowered to issue such amended site plan that the amended
site plan will not result in any material change to the neighborhood.
c) Amendments to the Village's Zoning Law proposed by the Board of
Trustees upon its own initiative may be processed and adopted.

§ IV:

APPEAL PROVISIONS
A.

The Village Board of Trustees, by a vote of not less than a majority plus

one, shall have the power to vary or modify the application of any provisions of this local
law, upon its determination, in its absolute discretion, that such variance or modification is
consistent with the purpose of this local law to prevent premature development that would
prejudice the objectives of a revised Master Plan and revisions to the zoning law and
regulations, and is, further consistent with the health, safety, and general welfare of the
Village. The Village Board shall have the power, in any individual case, to decide the extent
to which this law shall be varied and modified and which controls shall remain in effect.
B.

Upon receiving any application for such a variance or modification ofthe

provisions ofthis local law, the Village Board shall refer such application to the
Comprehensive Plan Committee for a report of said Committee with respect to the effect of
the prospective variance or modification upon the intended land use plan and zoning plan.
To expedite such appeal, the Village Clerk shall forward within 48 hours after receipt of
same, all applications for relief to the Comprehensive Plan Committee for its report. Such
report shall be returned by the Comprehensive Plan Committee to the Village Board within
thirty (30) days after such reference and shall be placed on the agenda ofthe next regular
meeting of the Village Board. If the Comprehensive Plan Committee report is not received
within such thirty (30) day period, the application for relief shall nevertheless be placed on
the agenda of the next regular meeting of the Village Board. The granting of an appeal for
relief by the Village Board shall authorize and permit the appropriate Village Board, agency

146731

or officer having onginal junsdiction of the subject matter of the application to take action
thereon.

§ V.

It is the intent of this local law to change or supersede the following state statutes

and local laws for the effective penod of this local law.
a.

Sections 7-728 and 7-730 of the Village Law providing for the filing,

processing and approval of subdivision plats;
b.

Section 7-734 of the Village Law to the extent that it empowers the zoning
board of appeals to grant permits for erection of buildings in streets or
highways shown in a map or plan;

c.

Section 7-738 ofthe Village Law empowering the Village Board of
Trustees to authorize the planning board to modify the zoning laws to
provide for clustering and other purposes, and providing for planning
board determinations and processing and approval of plats and site plans
pursuant to such authority;

d.

The Subdivision Regulations and Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-onHudson to the extent that they provide for filing, processing and approval
of subdivision plats.

§VI.

PENALTIES
Any person, firm, corporation, or entity that shall construct, erect, enlarge, or alter

any building or structure, or willfully conduct any act in violation of the provisions of this
Local Law, or shall othenwise violate this Local Law, shall be subject to a fine of not more
than $250 and fifteen days imprisonment for each such violation, and shall, in addition, be
required to restore the premises to their condition prior to such violation; in the event of
failure to effect such restoration, the Village shall be entitled to do so and to charge the

146731

property owner and the person, firm, corporation, or entity responsible for the violation for
the cost thereof

§ VII.

SEVERABILITY
The invalidity of any word, section, clause, paragraph or sentence or provision of

this Local Law shall not affect the validity of any other part ofthis Local Law.

§ VIM.

REPEAL OF OTHER LAWS
All ordinances, local laws, or parts of ordinances or local laws, in conflict with the

provisions ofthis Local Law are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give this Local
Law full force and effect during its effective period.

§ IX.

EFFECTIVE DATE
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon adoption and filing, as

provided by law, and shall remain in full force and effect until June 26, 2001, on which date
this Local Law shall terminate.

146731

(Complete the certiflcation in the paragraph that applies to theflllngof this iocal law and
strike out that which is not appiicabie.)
1. (Final adoption by locai legislative body oniy.)
I hereby cerlify that the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No
of i^...?.000
of the (<SM«tVW«y)(^m^
of
-QrotfiD.,Q0..Had5Qn
was duly passed by the
...H?J].^..2f._Ir.ystees
Qjj—.5/2.6
i^OQQin accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.
(Name of Legislative

Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approvai, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed herelo, designaled as local law No.
of 19
oflhe (County)(Cily)(Town)(Village) of
-— was duly passed by the
^
on
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the

-

(Elective Chief Executive

and was deemed duly adopted on

19—-,

Officer*)

in accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
Oi the (County)(Cily)(To=vVn)(Village) of
wa;. duly passed by the
^
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative

Body)

disapproval) by the

-

(Elective Chief Executive

on-

19— . Such local law was submiited

Officer*)

to the people by reason ofa (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting Ihereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19-— , in
accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petition was flled requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify lhat the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No
of 19
of the (Counly)(Cily)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative

Body)

disapproval) by the—(Elective Chief Executive

on

19 — . Such local law was subjecl lo

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

19—- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or viiiage, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer is vested with the power to approve or veto locai laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local iaw conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
oflhe City of
having been submiited to referendum pursuant lo the provisions of
seclion (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmalive vole of a majoriiy of the
qualified electors ofsuch city voting thereon al the (special)(general) election held on
19—-,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the Couniy of
State of New York, having been submitted lo the eleclors
at the General Eleclion of November
19—-, pursuanl lo subdivisions 5 and 7 of seclion 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vole of a majoriiy of the qualified electors of the cities ofsaid county as a unil and a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe lowns ofsaid couniy considered as a unit
voiing at said general eleclion, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnaiadoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify lhal I have compared the preceding local law wilh the original on file in this office and lhal the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was fina/ly ^opjed in the manner indicated in paragraph-—QOe____^ above.

or officer designated by local legislative body

(Seal)

7 A /oo

Dale:

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Counsel, Town Attomey, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTYOF

WESTCHESTER

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correci lext and lhal all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature

V i l l a g e Attornev
Title

CiH5<

f

Croton on Hudson

Village
Date:

LI-^
(3)

I ^i


