---
title: "LL 3-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-03-08
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 3-1999
Filed: 1999-03-08
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 3-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-03-08
---

Local Law 3-1999
Filed: 1999-03-08


T
IT
C" 7•
Local L a w riling

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY. NY 12231

(Use this form to flie a local law with the Secretary of State.)^^Q^^eg^2^^ife
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminatefi^ml^lBft^
italics or underlining to indicate new maner.
^^ »
i^^^"^
®^

of

'^^.?.^50_T°I?~^VJ??J?'.0

--^^^^f^fi

village
Local Law No
A local law

-?

of the year 19.

entiUed„lProposed
Development (WD) D i s t r i c t and Associated Zoning Text Amendments
i n Accordance,With_A^^^
of Chapter 230/ Zoning/ of the Croton-on-Hudson Village Code."_

Be It enacted by the ...yiy^a?..?.?^^^ .of Tr^^^^^^
(Nmit afLtgitlmivt

CJB^

.

ofthe

aoiyi

Croton-on-Hudson

asfoUows:

-m^
village

SECTION L PURPOSE AND INTENT
The Waterfront Development District zoning provisions are intended to facilitate the
development of property along the Hudson River waterfront which is consistent with the
Village's Master Plan, the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program and the
Village!s Greenway Vision Plan; which enhances and utilizes the potential of the Village's
riverfront; which strengthens the physical integrity ofthe Hudson River waterfront and the
economic viability of the Village; which expands the use and public accessibility to the
Village's Hudson River waterfront for the purposes of recreation, leisure and year-round
residents; and which encourages the development of larger tracts of land as single, unified
and comprehensiveprojects.
The parcels enumerated below were previously eligible for development in accordance with
the provisions of the Riverfront Development Use (RDU) District. The RDU provisions
were repealed by the Croton-on-Hudson Village Board ofTrustees in 1989. The Village
Board of Trustees believes that for the reasons enumerated in the paragraph immediately
above, it would be appropriate for the subject parcels to be zoned Waterfront Development
District.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 ^Rev.?,-?!)

(1)

In addition, included below is a zoning text amendment which states that any building or
use constructed in conformance with a site development plan approved pursuant to the
RDU provisions, prior to their repeal from Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code,
should not be considered non-conforming from a zoning perspective, and that the building
or use shall continue to be bound by the approved site development plan.

SECTION II. ZONING AMENDMENTS
A.

The zoning of the parcels having the following Village tax map designations is
hereby changed to Waterfront Development District:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

78.16-1-4
78.16-1-6
78.16-1-7
78.20-1-2
78.20-1-1
78.16-1-3
78.16-1-3.01
78.16-1-1
78.16-1-8

These parcels are shown on the attached map entitled Proposed Waterfront
Development (WD) Zoning District.
B.

The existing text of § 230-54, Interpretation, is hereby labeled § 230-54.A.

C.

A new § 230-54.B shall be added which shall read as follows:
Any building, structure or use constructed in conformance with a site
development plan approved pursuant to the Riverfront Development Use
(RDU) District provisions, prior to their repeal from this chapter, shall not be
considered non-conforming in the context of this article of this chapter.
However, said building, structure or use shall continue to be bound by said
approved site development plan.

SECTION III. EFFECTIVE DATE
This local law shall take effect immediately upon its filing with the Secretary of State.

SECTION IV. SEPARABILITY
The provisions of this local law are separable and if any provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part thereof is held illegal, invalid or imconstitutional, or inapplicable
to any person or circumstance, such illegality, invalidity, unconstitutionality, or
inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, clauses, sentences,
subsections, words, or parts of this local law or their application to other persons or
circumstances. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that this local law would
have been adopted if such illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part had not been included therein, and if such person or circumstance,
to which the local law or part thereof is held inapplicable, had been specifically exempt
therefrom.
docs2\100\cro8-010..dhs.crc

(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to theflllngofthls local law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, desienated as local law No
of 19^^—
ofthe (eflflaay)^Oi*y)(lb«<M)(Village) of --.-PXOton..?n„Hudson
was duly passed by the
....BQaC-d.-Of ..Tr.U.Si£.e^
on-...ZIX^
199a., in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Namt of Legislative Body}

2. (Passage by iocal legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law aimexed hereto,,designated as local law No.
of 19
ofthe (County)(City)(Tbwn)( Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legulativt Body)

disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(Elective ChUf Exteutivt Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the loca! law annexed hereto, dcsignstsd as local law No.
of 19
ofthe (County )(City)(lbwn) (Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19-— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Namt ofLtgitUtivt Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

19—-. Such local law was submitted

(EUctivt Chitf Exeeutivt OffUer*)

to the people byreasonofa (mandatory )(permissive)referendum,andreceivedthe affirmative vote ofa majority of
the qualiHed electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19.-.. , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to pennlsslve referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(^wn)(Vfflage) ot
—
was duly passed by the
on
19.—, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Namt ofLtgitlativt Body)

disapproval) by the—.-

on

19—. Such local law was subject to

(EUcttvt Chitf ExteuHvt OffUtr*)

permissivereferendumand no valid petitionrequestingsuchreferendumwas filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

19—- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or Includes the chief executive offlcer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby ceitify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of
---- having been submitted toreferendumpursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electois of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—-,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19-—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and havingreceivedthe affirmative vote ofa majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnaladoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcatlon.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was ffnal^ ai^pted in the manner indicated in paragraph—-9-'^"—, above.
j ^ ^ / ^ ^ ^ ^
^
or oCTicer designated by local ltgislaiive bray

(Seal)

Date:

(Certlflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Cotmsel, Town Attoraey, Village Attomey or
other authorized attoraey of locality.)
STATEOFNEWYORK

COIMTYOF JiiSICHESIER
I , the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contams the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

latun
Signatun

\ j

^

V i l l a g e Attorney
Title

fifty

,

Croton on Hudson

Village

Date:

I'O (
(3)


