---
title: "LL 3-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-09-24
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 3-1998
Filed: 1998-09-24
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 3-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-09-24
---

Local Law 3-1998
Filed: 1998-09-24


7 ^^^7 T
T7iU*trr
LOCUI L u W r u i n g

NEWYORKSTATEDEPARTMENTOFSTATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY. NY 12231

(Use this form to flle a local law wltti the Secretary of
«f State.)^^^^^^J^^vJk^
v.-rk'^t. .^^^T O^

^
Q

Text of law should be given as amended. Do nol include matler being eliminated pHd^XoV^JF" ^^^..^
italics or underlining to indicate new malter.
c^^9
'

CSKy

-

Croton on Hudson

l*^''^'sws»

Village
LocalLawNo

?.

oftiieyear 19-58. ^vx^

Alocal law.---?-r.^?-^ir-?-.?-.r.?-W.Chapt^^^^

with supplemental indemnification and defense against,c_iyil_
claims
Board of Tr_ustees_

Be It enacted by the

GSiy

(Neme ofLep^atire

*

ofthe

Body)

Croton on Hudson

asfcllows:

Village
§ i.

A new chapter, Chapier6l ofihe Viiiage of Croton-on-Hudson Code, is hereby created to readas
follows:
Public OfTicers Indemnification

§ 61-1. Legislative Purpose.
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has heretofore recognized the
increasing litigation exposure faced by public employees and officers and conferred the defense
and indemnification benefits contained in § 18 of the Public Officere Law on the Village's public
officials and employees by resolution. The Board of duslees wishes to reaffirm and codify that
action and to provide additional indemnification and defense protection pursuant to law.
§ 61-2. Section 18 Benefits.
The full benefits of Section 18 of the Public Officere Law shall apply to public officials and
employees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall be heW
liable for the costs incurred imder the provisions of that section, as well as the costs incurred under
Section 61-3 ofthis chapter.
§61-3. Additiona] Indemnification.
The Village will provide for the defense of any Village officer or employee in any civil action or
proceeding arising out of any alleged act or omission in which it is alleged that the officer or
employee has violated the civil rights of the claimant, petitioner or plaintiff under Section 1981
and 19S3 of the U.S. Civil Rights Act. The Village shall indemnify and save harmless such
(If additlonai space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 iRcv. 7/t)0

officer or employee in the amount of any judgment or settlement of claim obtained against such
officer or employee, including punitive and exemplary damages. Such legal defense and
indemnification shall be provided only where the officer or employee at the time of such alleged
act or omission was acting in good faith and within the scope of his public employment, powers or
duties. The provisions ofthis section shall be in addition to any other stamte, local law or
enactment providing legal defense and indemnification in civil actions brought against such
officer or employee.
§ 2. This local law shall take effect immediately in filing in the office ofthe Secretary of Slate.

(Complete the certiflcation In the paragraph that applies to thefllingof this local law and
strilce out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No.
of 19-98
of the (Q$MtftyKKi«J9(IiiWM)(VilU^^^ of -.-.-QrPton .On. Judspn
_
_
was duly passed by the
..3.9.^yA.PJ..lr}^?J^9.^...
on
5/.8.
19 -98, in accordance with lhe applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative

Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective ChiefExecutive Offlcer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed herelo, designated as local law No.
of 19
ofthe (Counly)(Cily)(Town)(Village) of
- was duly passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative

Body)

disapproval) by lhe-

-

(Elective ChiefExecutive

-

-

- and was deemed duly adopled on

19----,

Officer*)

in accordance wilh lhe applicable provisions ofiaw.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that lhe local law annexed herelo, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(Cily)(Town)(V"illage) of
was duly passed by lhe
on
- 19—-, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative

Bodyi

disapproval) by the
(Elective ChiefExecutive

on-

19

Such local law was submilted

Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandalory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmalive vote of a majorily of
lhe qualified eleclore voting ihereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19---- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaiadoption because no valid petition was flled requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that lhe local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No
—
of 19
ofthe (Counl y)(City)(Town) (Village) of
was duly passed by the
— on
19— . and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed afler
iSame of Legislative

Bodyi

disapproval) by lhe
(Elective ChiefExecutive

-

on

--

-- 19-.-. Such local law was subject to

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19---- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive offlcer ofa county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto iocal laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
- of 19
of the City of
having been submilted lo referendum pureuant lo the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law. and having received tfae affirmalive vote of a majority of the
qualified electore of such city voting ihereon al lhe (special)(general) election held on
- 19 -,
became operative.

6. (County locai law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify lhal the local law annexed herelo, designaled as local law No.
-- of 19
of lhe County of
Slate of New York, having been submitted to the electore
at the General Election of November
-— 19-—, pureuant lo subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vole of a majority of the quaUfied electore of the cities of said county as a unit and a majorily of the qualified eleclore of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operafive.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law wilh the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript iherefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was ^allji^ a<Jopted in the manner indicated in paragraph—J3ne„.., above.
/O /'
f K

ik

LF.

^ i m & O m m i i i m ^ ^ m m y ^ ^ ^ ViUage aerk
or officer designated by local legislative body

(Seal)

Dale:.

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Counsel, Town Attomey, Viiiage Attorney or
other authorized attoraey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW VORK
coiwTYOF
Westchester
1, the undereigned, hereby certify lhal the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment oflhe: local
local law
law annexed
annexed hereto.
nereio.
Signature

NJ

V i l l a g e Attorney
Tiilc

Qf

Croton on Hudson

Village

Date: I ^ ^ ^ s E A
(3)


