---
title: "LL 3-2016: CHANGING THE ZONING DESIGNATION OF A CERTAIN PARCEL OF LAND WITHIN THE VILLAGE O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2016-05-20
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 3-2016
Filed: 2016-05-20
Amends: 
CHANGING THE ZONING DESIGNATION OF A CERTAIN PARCEL OF LAND WITHIN THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, AMENDING THE TAX MAP

---
title: "Local Law 3-2016: CHANGING THE ZONING DESIGNATION OF A CERTAIN PARCEL OF LAND WITHIN THE VILLAGE O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2016-05-20
---

Local Law 3-2016
Filed: 2016-05-20
CHANGING THE ZONING DESIGNATION OF A CERTAIN PARCEL OF LAND WITHIN THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, AMENDING THE TAX MAP

,
^ New York state Department of stateDivision of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
,
:
•'
•
Albany, NY 12231-OOOi
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to fjle; a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new nriatter. •.
•:"
••• ••:
FILED .
• C o u n t y D C i t y QTown^ [xjVlllage
;
., ' ,
STATE RECORDS
(Selectone:)

.

'

- ' .

-

'

.

.

,,

o f , Croton-on-Hudson

DEPARTMENTOF

SMTE

ofthe year 2016

Local Law No. 3

A local law 'i^banging the zoning designation of a certain parcel of land'within the Village of
, : ,

(InsertTitle)

~~

'^- '

:

~

Ty

'; r • - ;

•

Groton on Hudson, amending the tax map.

Be it enacted by.the Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

(Selectone:): '

•Town
- /, ;

[x]Village
./

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows: \
Section 1. The Village of Croton of Hudson Zoning Law is hereby amended as,follpws: ^
The parcel identified as Section 67.10, Block 2, Lot 5 as shown on the tax maps and tax assessment rolls ofthe
Village Is rezoned from an dr2 Limited Office parcel to a RA-25 Residential District.

• ' . ' \ ' • • ' , -'^
Secfion 2. The Official Zoning Map of.the Village of Croton,on Hudson; NY is hereby amended to reflect the
foregoing change.'
Secfion 3: This local
•V law shalltake effectimniediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, arid number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rey. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis locai law and
strike out that vyhich is not applicable.)
1. (Finaladoption by locai legislative body oniy:)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. Three
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
.
Village Board of Trustees
on May 9
. 202^

of 20 16

of

was duly passed by the
^ in accordance with the applicable

(Name of Legislative Body)

provisions oflaw..

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of20
_of
'the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
' was duly passed by the
20
_, and was (approved)(not approved)
on
(Name of Legislative Body)

and was deemed duly adopted

(repassed after disapproval) by the.
^(Elective Chief Executivei Officer*)
20

on

'

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)

of 20.

I hereby certify that the local lavv annexed hereto, designated as local |aw No.
' '
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village).of ".
.
'
.
'• . • - '
(Name of Legislative Body)

,

(repassed after disapproval) by the

•

was duly passed by the

20

on

, >, ;

of

, and was (approved)(not approved)

.

•- ••

\

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

' .,,

- •

20

.on

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason ofa (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmafive
vote ofa majority ofthe qualified electors vofing thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
•
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certijfy that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ' ' '
of 20
of
the (County)(City)Crown)(Village) of
(Name of Legislative Body)

'

•
on.

vvas duly passed by the

,, and was (approved)(not approved)

.20

.on -

(repassed after disapproval) by t h e .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

'

20_

_. Such local

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petifion requesfing such referendum was filed as of.
20__^

,, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

,

i .

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve'or veto local laws or ordinances.
•
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby .certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
'.
.__
of 20
of
the City of
'. :
having been submitted to referendum pursuantito the provisions of secfion (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20"
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto; designated as local law No
,
of 20
of
the County of
"
State of New York, having beeri submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
_
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5'and 7 of secfion 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote ofa majority.of the qualified electors ofthe cifies of said county as a unit and a majority ofthe
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit vofing at said general,election, became operafive.
(if any other authorized form of final adoption;has been followed, please providie an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file iri this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in thejmerTnef indicaffe^ in
paragraph.
above.
- Clerk of th^-county legislativ
' officer d^gnated by local lei

(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

odyT^lty, Town or.Village Clerk or
body /'••OUJK-C b i S c « » ^ " ^

Date:

Page 4 of 4

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Crotori-on-Hudsori '
Local Law No. 3 ofthe year 2016

A local law changing the zoning designation of a certain-parcel of land within the Village of
Croton on Hudson, amending the tax map. ;

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. The Village of Croton of Hudson Zoning Law is hereby amended as follows:

, .

The parcel identified as Section 67.10, Block 2, Lot 5 as shown on the tax maps and
tax assessment rolls of the Village is rezoned from an 0-2 Limited Office parcel to a
• RA-25 Residential District. . : • i '.'

Section 2. The Official Zoning Map ofthe Village of Croton on Hudson, NY is hereby amended
''•''.
to reflect the foregoing change.
Section 3. This local laiw shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

On motion of TRUSTEE .Gallelli, seconded by. TRUSTEE Pugh, the following resolution was
unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a vote
of4-0.
^
WHEREAS; the Village Board is considering taking an action to adopt Local Law Introductory No. 4 of
2016 to amend the zoning code ofthe village and official zoning map by rezoning the parcel at 120 Scenic
Drive West, identified as Section 67.10, Block 2, Lot 5 .fi-6m an 0-2 Limited Office parcel to a RA-25
Resideiitial District; and
WHEREAS, on March 21,-2016 the Village Board declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes,
determined that this was an unlisted action, and referred the application to the Planning Board, Waterfi-ont.
Advisory Committee, and Westchester County Plarining Department as required by law; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a response back from the Westchester County
Plarming Department, arid favorable recommendationsfi"omthe Villagej Planning Board and the Waterfront
Advisory Conmiittee; and
!
WHEREAS, on April is, 2016 the Village Board of Trustees issued and adopted the EAF Parts 2 and 3
Determination of Significance attached hereto, and adopted a Negative Declaration in connection with this
action; and
WHEREAS, on May 9, 2016 the Village Board adopted a resolution confirming that the proposed action is
coiisistent with the Village's Local-Waterfront-Revitalization Policy,
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on May 9, 2016,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:- that the Village Board of Trustees adopts. Local Law
Introductory No. 4.of-2016 to amend the zoning code of the village ahdiofficial zoning map by rezoning the
parcel at 120 Scenic Drive West, identified as Section 67.10, Block 2\ Lot 5 from an 0-2 Limited Office
parcel to a RA-25 Residential District, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 3 of 2016.
Dated: May 9,2016

,

^

ltllMt****Mt**********Mi:lifltfllftf^fltfltfltf-i^lif^

State of New York
)
'
• 'Ss: .
County of Westchester
)

•
, .

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New
York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is.a copy of an original on file in my office and has been
duly adopted at a regular meetirig of the Board of trustees of said Village held on May 9*, 2016.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village
.this 12* day of May, 2016;'

(Seal) 5=/•/ i>( c y


