---
title: "LL 4-2017: TO PROVIDE FOR BOOTING AND TOWING VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING PARKING VIOLATIONS"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2017-06-28
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 4-2017
Filed: 2017-06-28
Amends: 
TO PROVIDE FOR BOOTING AND TOWING VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING PARKING VIOLATIONS

---
title: "Local Law 4-2017: TO PROVIDE FOR BOOTING AND TOWING VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING PARKING VIOLATIONS"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2017-06-28
---

Local Law 4-2017
Filed: 2017-06-28
TO PROVIDE FOR BOOTING AND TOWING VEHICLES WITH OUTSTANDING PARKING VIOLATIONS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Unifonm Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ n r p / / Pi/i/P/7/nn

Albany, NY 12231-0001

l-ULfai L.avv n i l l l y

www.dosstateny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
^ DCounty DCity DTown [x]Village
STATE RECORDS
(Selectone:)

Of Croton-on-Hudson

JUN 28

W7

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Local Law No. 4
A local law *° P''°v''^®

of the year 20 IT
Booting and Towing vehicles with outstanding parking violations.

(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

DCounty DCity

DTown

DVillage

(Selectone:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

SEE ATTACHED

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

NEW YORK STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 4 of the year 2017

A local law TO PROVIDE FOR BOOTING AND TOWING VEHICLES WITH
OUTSTANDING PARKING VIOLATIONS

Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
§ 215-47 - Towing and Booting for Outstanding Parking Violations.
A.

B.

Legislative Findings and Purpose.
(1)

The Village Board finds that significant numbers ofVehicle owners fail
to respond to parking summonses issued for violations of parking
orders, rules, regulations, and Local Laws; that a significant number of
such owners are persistent violators; and that, by reason of out of
state registration of Vehicles, transfer of ownership, re-registration of
Vehicles, and other circumstances, violators frequently are able to
evade existing enforcement measures.

(2)

By reason of the foregoing, the Village Board finds that the health,
welfare, and safety of the Village will be served by adoption of a
Village Local Law providing additional means of enforcing parking .
orders, rules, regulations, and local laws in the case of Vehicle owners
who fail to timely respond to summonses issued for Village parking
violations.

Definitions.
(1)

Parking violation default: A parking violation default is incurred
when an unpaid parking summons has not been answered by the
required appearance date.

(2)

Towing: The moving of a Vehicle subject to towifig by a Tow truck, as
herein discussed.

(3)
,

ToW truck: A Vehicle that is equipped with a crane, winch, tow bar,
push plate, or other device designed to pull or push a Vehicle or to
raise a Vehicle by the front or rear end thereof

(4]

Vehicle: A "Vehicle" shall include a motor vehicle, as defined in section
one hundred twenty-five of the Vehicle and Traffic Law, as may be
amended from time-to-time; a tractor as defined in section one
hundred fifty-one-a of such law; or a trailer as defined in section one
hundred and fifty-six of such law.

(5)

Vehicle Immobiliization: The clamping, affixing, or locking of a booting
device onto the wheel of a parked Vehicle to prevent the wheel from
rotating, thereby immobilizing the Vehicle.

(6)

Vehicle Immobilization Device: A device that is clamped, affixed, or
locked onto the wheel ofa parked Vehicle to prevent the wheel from
rotating, thereby immobilizing the Vehicle until it is unlocked and
removed.

Vehicle Immobilization.
(1)

The Chief of Police is hereby authorized, in lieu of towing a Vehicle, to
provide for Vehicle Immobilization with respect to Vehicles which
haye three (3) or rnore outstanding Village parking violation defaults
against them.

(2)

Notice. When a Vehicle Immobilization Device is used, the Police
Department or Parking Enforcement Officer shall attach or cause to be
attached to the Vehicle, in a conspicuous manner, in such form as may
be directed by the Chief of Police, a notice containing the following
information:
(a]

The location and a description of the Vehicle.

(b]

The date and time of the installation of the Vehicle
Immobilization Device and signature of the installer.

(c]

Notice that any person tampering with, defacing, removing, or
destroying the Vehicle Immobilization Device will be subject to
criminal prosecution and liable for any loss to the Village
resulting from damage to the Device.

D. •

(d)

The steps which must be taken by the owner of the Vehicle to
obtain its release.

(e)

Notice that the Vehicle may be towed if it remains in the same
location for 72 hours after the Vehicle Immobilization.

(f)

Such other information, statements, notices, and warnings as
the Chief of Police may, from time to time, determine to be
appropriate.

Towing.
(1)

Vehicles subject to Towing. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized
to provide for the Towing and impoundment of Vehicles which have
three [3] or more outstanding Village parking violation defaults
against them and which, after mailing a final notice of the Village
parking violation defaults to the registered owner at the address
provided,by the department of motor Vehicles records, and not
receiving a response for a period of seven (7] days after having mailed
said notice, are found operated or parked on any public street, public
highway, or Village roadway, or in any Village parking lots where
Towing may be done.

[2]

Signage. The Village shall provide warning signs, advising of the
possibility of Towing, on public streets where Towing may be done
and at the entrance to any Village parking lots where Towing may be
done.
'

Release of Vehicle to Owner.
[1]

(2)

Generally.
(a)

The individual attempting to redeem a Vehicle that has been
immobilized or towed must demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Village Court Clerk that he or she is the owner of said
Vehicle or is authorized to act on behalf of such owner.

(b)

It shall be a defense that the Vehicle in question was stolen and
thereafter parked illegally; however, this defense shall only be
available when a bona fide report of the theft has been filed
with a police department. In the event ofa theft, the owner of
the Vehicle shall still be responsible for paying the towing and
storage fees associated with towing and storage of the Vehicle
directly to the tow company.

Release of Immobilized Vehicles.

(3]

(a)

To obtain the release of an immobilized Vehicle, the owner of
said Vehicle shall visit the office ofthe Village Justice Court
during normal business hours and provide the Justice Court
Clerk with payment in full of all outstanding Village parking
violations relating to the Vehicle. Upon receiving payment for
all outstanding Village parking violations, the Justice Court
Clerk shall provide the owner with a certificate as proof of
payment.

(b)

After obtaining the certificate described above in Section
E(2) [a), the owner of an immobilized Vehicle shall visit the
office ofthe Police Department during normal business hours
and present said certificate. Thereafter, the Chief of Police, his
duly designated agent, or the Parking Eriforcement Officer shall
remove the Vehicle Immobilization Device in a reasonably
prompt manner.

(c)

New parking summonses may be issued to a Vehicle that has
been fitted with a Vehicle Immobilization Device and penalties
will continue to accrue until payment is made.

Release of Vehicles subject to ToWing.
(a)

To obtain the release of a Vehicle subject to Towing, the owner
of said Vehicle shall visit the office of the Village Justice Court
during normal business hours and provide the Justice Court
Clerk with payment in full of all outstanding Village parking
violations relating to the Vehicle. Upon receiving payment for
all outstanding Village parking violations, the Justice Court
Clerk shall provide the owner with a certificate as proof of
payment. At the same time, the Justice Court Clerk shall also
provide the owner of the Vehicle with the name and contact
information of the tow company that towed and is storing the
Vehicle.

(b)

After obtaining the certificate described above in Section
E(3)(a), the owner ofa Vehicle subject to Towing shall visit the
tow company and present said certificate. Thereafter, the
owner of the Vehicle shall pay the tow company the required
towing and storage fees. Towing and storage fees shall be as
established by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees from
time to time. Upon payment ofthe tow company's fees, the
company shall release the Vehicle to the owner in a reasonably
prompt manner.

Tampering with or attempted removal of a Vehicle Immobilization Device.

Any perspn who attempts to remove, deface, or destroy a Vehicle Immobilization
Device, having no lawful right to do so, shall be in violation of this Village Law.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, the fine for such violation shall
be $300.00, plus all actual expenses for replacement and/or repair of the Vehicle
Immobilization Device.
Section 2: This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the
Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. "^^""^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on June 19,
20IZ
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.
r

.

of 20li
of
^vas duly passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(Ci_ty)(Town)(Village) of
.
,
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
:
.
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
20| I I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.
<
3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of .

of 20

[

/

on

•

of

[

was duly passed by the

20

- and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

^ , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
^
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of 20

:
on

.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

of

was duly passed by the
20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayorof a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is .
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

'

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
'
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on"
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
_State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
_ 20
., pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and ofthe whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted^in the manner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
legislativ^t)ody. City, Town or Village Clerk or.
local legislative body
'

(Seal)

Date:

C.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

fo^ePr^j/l']

1

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE Walsh, seconded by TRUSTEE Anderson, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board ofTrustees ofthe Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a vote of 4-1.
WHEREAS, the Village finds that significant numbers of vehicle owners fail to
respond to parking summonses issued for violations of parking regulations; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory 4 of 2017 has been drafted to enable the
Village to tow or boot vehicles which are found to have three or more outstanding
parking violations; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on June 19, 2017,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board ofTrustees adopts
Local Law Introductory 4 of 2017 to enable the Village to tow or boot vehicles that
are found to have three or more outstanding parking violations, which upon adoption
will become Local Law No. 4 of 2017.

Date: June 19,2017
State of New York

)
ss:

County of Westchester

)'

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-onrHudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on June 19, 2017.
FN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 22 day of June, 2017.


