---
title: "LL 4-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-03-08
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 4-1999
Filed: 1999-03-08
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 4-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-03-08
---

Local Law 4-1999
Filed: 1999-03-08


7 j ^ ^ r f l 7 n^Ai T7i7i*frr

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMEWT OF STATE

LOCai L a w r i l i n g

162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY.NY 12231

(Use this form tofliea local law with the Secretary of State.)
lext of law should bc given as amended. Do not include matter being eliniinategBSMfeBfO^^l^
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
11 E ^
^g^^ of

.CratOttrfDaTHudson.

Q^^^^^

Village

W2^;££t««» ^
Local Law No.

A local law

of the year 19-S£r^

entitled "Proposed .Zoning Text Amentents _Regar^
(ImttmKie)

Accordance with A r t i c l e XIV, Amendments and Interpretation,_^of Chapter
230, Zoning, of the Croton-on-Hudson Village Code."

Be It enacted by the .„XUIagfi.J5flftv4..9J5..Trustees
'

of

ofthe

(HmttfLtrritiUtBody)

i;i:oJ;saT:flD-H.V.dson

as follows:

VlUage

SECTION L PURPOSE AND INTENT
The Village's signage regulations have been found to, in certain cases, permit exceedingly
large and thereby objectionable signage. Although a billboard which advertises a "business,
commodity, service, entertainment or attraction sold, ofFered or existing elsewhere than
upon the same lot where such sign is displayed" is prohibited, such a sign advertising a use
on the same lot where such sign is displayed is not expressly prohibited. Further, the
provisions of the Zoning Law do not uniformly prohibit a signfromprojecting vertically
above the roofline orfromextending horizontally beyond the limits of the building on
which it is mounted. The proposed amendments herein rectify these problems with the
Village's signage regulations.
SECTION IL ZONING AMENDMENTS
A.

The definition of the word "billboard" in § 230-4 of the Code is hereby revised to
read as follows:
BILLBOARD - The type of sign commonly known as a "billboard," which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service, entertainment or

attraction sold, offered or existing on the same lot or elsewhere than on the
same lot where such sign is displayed.
B.

A new § 230-44.D is hereby added which shall read as follows:
D.

C.

Section 230-15.B(2)(a) is hereby revised to read as follows:
(a)

D.

No sign shall project vertically above the roofline or extend
horizontally beyond the limits of the building on which it is mounted,
painted or otherwise attached. I f the building is flat-roofed, the
roofline shall be deemed the eaveline for the purpose hereof, except
that i f a parapet extends across the entire front of the building, the
sign may extend to the top of the parapet. Where this section may be
in conflict with other sections of this chapter, this section shall
control.

The aggregate area, in square feet, shall not be greater than two (2)
times the length, in feet, of the wall on which it is placed, except that
said aggregate area shall in no event exceed four hundred (400)
square feet and the area of any individual sign shall not exceed two
hundred (200) square feet. Further, the smaller dimension of any
rectangular sign shall not exceed six (6) feet.

Section 230- 16.A(8)(b) is hereby revised to read as follows:
(b)

The aggregate area, in square feet, of all signs on any wall shall not be
greater than two (2) times the length, in feet, of the wall on which
they are placed, except that said aggregate area shall in no event
exceed four hundred (400) square feet and the area of any individual
sign shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet. Further, the
smaller dimension of any rectangular sign shall not exceed six (6)
feet.

SECTION III. EFFECTIVE DATE
This local law shall take effect immediately upon its filing with the Secretary of State.
SECTION IV. SEPARABILITY
The provisions of this local law are separable and i f any provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part thereof is held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional, or inapplicable
to any person or circumstance, such illegality, invalidity, unconstitutionality, or
inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, clauses, sentences.

subsections, words, or parts of tfais local law or their application to other persons or
circumstances. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that this local law would
have been adopted if such illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part had not been included therein, and if such person or ciicumstance,
to which the local law or part thereof is held imqiplicable, had been specifically exempt
therefrom.

(Complete the certiflcatlon in the paragraph that applies to theflllngof this local law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law aimexed hereto, designated as local law No
of IS?.?—
ofthe (Gfc#(««jJ^
of
CXi3l;.OJ3..an..Hud50n
was duly passed by the
.....?P.9Jlci.PL.^r.y Spees^
...2^1,6
19 99 ^ in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of LtgisUtivt Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Offlcer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(^^llage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Namt ofLtgitlativt

Body)

disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(Elective Chief Exteutivt Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)( Vil lage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19™., and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Namt ofLtgitUtivt

Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

19

Such local law was submitted

(EUctivt ChUf Extcutivt Officer*}

to the people byreasonof a (mandatory)(permissive)referendum,andreceivedthe affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualifled electors vpting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
1 ^ . - , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petition wasflledrequesting
referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law aimexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Tbwn)^TOage) of -'^
—
was duly passed by the
on
19—-, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Namt ofLtgitUtivt

Body)

disapproval) by the—

on

19—. Such local law was subject to

(EUctivt Chief Extcutivt Offietr*}

permissivereferendumand no valid petitionrequestingsuchreferendumwas filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or Includes the chief executive offlcer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there b« none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor ofa town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of -----having been submitted toreferendumpursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electois of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—-,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—, pursuant to subdivisions S and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and havingreceivedthe affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority ofthe qualified electors oftbe towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of flnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such origii^ local law, and was finally adojfted in the manner indicated in paragraph—^0.? ,above.
,0 p;
/ ( i/\ I I'i
0 1 « t K M » M X X i t t ) ^ ) U ^ « M X d a ! « P 0 ( l ^ g ^ Village Clerk
or officer desigiuted by locai togislative tfody

(Seal)

Date:.

(Certlflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Cotmsel, Town Attomey, Village Attomey or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
rv^.n^r^F

WESTCHESTER

1, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the coirect text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local lawannexed hereto.

Signatuie

v n i a g e Attornev
Title

Ccty

.

Village
Date
(3)

Croton on Hudson


