---
title: "LL 4-2023: TO AMEND THE CROTON-ON-HUDSON VILLAGE CODE TO ADD NEW CHAPTER 59 TO PERMIT AND S"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-05-18
chapters: Ch 59
status: current
---

LL 4-2023
Filed: 2023-05-18
Amends: Ch 59
TO AMEND THE CROTON-ON-HUDSON VILLAGE CODE TO ADD NEW CHAPTER 59 TO PERMIT AND SET FORTH PROCEDURES FOR VIDEOCONFERENCING BY A PUBLIC BODY

---
title: "Local Law 4-2023: TO AMEND THE CROTON-ON-HUDSON VILLAGE CODE TO ADD NEW CHAPTER 59 TO PERMIT AND S"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-05-18
---

Local Law 4-2023
Filed: 2023-05-18
TO AMEND THE CROTON-ON-HUDSON VILLAGE CODE TO ADD NEW CHAPTER 59 TO PERMIT AND SET FORTH PROCEDURES FOR VIDEOCONFERENCING BY A PUBLIC BODY

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
~.
f
FIUED
•County • C i t y QTown ^Village
STATERECORDS
(Select one:)

^

of Croton-on-Hudson

^^ _

MAY 1 8 Z023
BEPArmei^T dF STATE

Local Law No.
A local law

o f t h e year 2023

04

TO AMENDTHE CROTON-ON-HUDSON VILLAGE CODE TO ADD ADD NEW
f/nsert Title)

CHAPTER 59 TO PERMIT AND SET FORTH PROCEDURES FOR
VIDEOCONFERENCING BY A PUBLIC BODY

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of LegislaSve Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[X|Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 04-2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE CROTON-ON-HUDSON V I L L A G E CODE TO ADD
NEW CHAPTER 59 TO PERMIT AND SET FORTH PROCEDURES FOR
VIDEOCONFERENCING BV A PUBLIC BODY

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. There is hereby added to the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson a new
Chapter 59 Videoconferencing by Public Bodies to be read as follows:
Chapter 59 Videoconferencing by PubUc Bodies
§ 59-1 Purpose.
A. The purpose of this Chapter is to enable members of Village of Croton-on-Hudson
public bodies who are unable to be physically present at a meeting location due to
extraordinary circumstances to remotely participate in the meeting in accordance with
the amendments to the New York Open Meetings Law §103-a as amended April 9,
2022. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson believes that
providing the opportunity to conduct open meetings of the Village's public bodies via
videoconferencing under extraordinary circumstances is appropriate and hereby adopts
§ 103-a for all Village public bodies as more fully set forth herein.
B. This Chapter is being adopted to set forth written procedures goveming meetings by
videoconference consistent with Open Meetings Law § 103-a.
§ 59-2 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, terms shall be defined as set forth in Section 102, Definitions, of
the New York Open Meetings Law, Article 7 ofthe Public Officers Law.
§ 59-3 Use of videoconferencing permitted.
A public body of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson may, in its discretion, use
videoconferencing to conduct its meetings pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter
provided that a quorum of the public body is physically present at one or more of the
locations where the public can also attend in person.
§ 59-4 Remote attendance by members of a public body.
A. Each public body, including committees and subcommittees thereof, may make its own
determination whether to use videoconferencing to conduct its meetings. In order to
hold meetings by videoconference, a public body must establish written procedures

goveming member and public attendance, and such procedures shall be conspicuously
posted on the public body's website.
B. Where a public body has determined to use videoconferencing to conduct its public
meetings pursuant to this Chapter, members of the public body shall be physically
present at such meetings unless the member is unable to be physically present due to
extraordinary circumstances, which shall include disability, illness, caregiving
responsibiUties or any other significant or unexpected factor or event which precludes
the member's attendance at such meeting and which is accepted by the public body as
set forth in its written procedures.
§ 59-5 Procedural requirements for videoconferencing.
The following requirements shall govem the use of videoconferencing by all public bodies
within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson:
A. Except in the case of executive sessions, the public body shall ensure that members of
the public body can be heard, seen and identified while the meeting is being conducted,
including but not limited to any motions, proposals, resolutions, and any other matter
formally discussed or voted upon.
B. The minutes of meetings involving videoconferencing must include which, if any,
members participated remotely and must be made available to the public pursuant to
New York Public Officers Law § 106.
C. The public notice for any meeting to be conducted by videoconferencing shall:
1. Inform the public
i. That videoconferencing will be used,
ii. Where the public can view and/or participate in such meeting, and
iii. Where required documents and records will be posted or made
available, and
2. Identify the physical location(s) where members of the public body will be
participating in the meeting and where the public can attend the meeting in
person.
D. Each meeting conducted using videoconferencing shall be recorded by the public body
and such recordings shall be posted or linked on the public website of the public body
within five (5) business days following the meeting. The recordings shall remain
available for a minimum of five years thereafter, and such recordings shall be
transcribed upon request.
E. If videoconferencing is used to conduct a meeting, the public body shall provide the
opportunity for members of the public to view such meeting via video. In meetings
where public conunent or participation is authorized, the public body shall ensure that
videoconferencing authorizes the same opportunities for public participation or
testimony as in person participation or testimony.
§ 59-7 Declaration of emergency.

The in-person participation requirements of Section 59-3 of this Chapter shall not apply
during a state disaster emergency declared by the Governor pursuant to § 28 of the
Executive Law, or a local state of emergency proclaimed by the Village Manager of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson or his/her designee pursuant to § 24 of the Executive Law, if
the public body determines that the circumstances necessitating the emergency declaration
would affect or impair the abiUty ofthe public body to hold an in person meeting.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof,
which other portions shall continue in full force and effecL
Seetion Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 2_
the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on April 24
20£2
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20^2
, of
^ g s ^j^jy passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town){Village) of
was duly passed by the
.
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legisiative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Viilage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name otLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) b y t h e

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
,
(Ndme OtLegislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(nQt approved)
on

20_

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
t)e none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) eiection held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
jState of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20_
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on filejxUhis-office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was'flnally adopted m the manner indicated in
paragraph,
above.
_/^CIerk ofiReja^only legislative body, City, Town orVillage Clerk or
.
ofllcer designated by local legislative body Pfi^/t 'AJi^ h>i
S^T^
(Seal)

'C

DOS--0239-f-t (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #81-2023
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to add a new Chapter to the Viliage Code to
permit and set forth procedures for videoconferencing by a public body, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2023 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on April 24, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 5 of2023, to add a new Chapter to the Village Code to permit and set forth procedures
for videoconferencing by a public body, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 4 of 2023, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED tiiat the Village Board of Tmstees hereby adopts the
Videoconferencing PoUcy for Public Bodies as attached hereto.

Dated: April 24, 2023

State ofNew York

)
ss:

County of Westchester

)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State ofNew
York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has
been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Tmstees of said Village held on the 24*^ of April
2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village
this 28* day of April 2023.


