---
title: "LL 4-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-08-16
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 4-2000
Filed: 2000-08-16
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 4-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-08-16
---

Local Law 4-2000
Filed: 2000-08-16


NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to flle a local law with the Secretary of State.)

L-

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminaled and
italics or underlining
underlinine to indicate new matter.
•rP^^^^^O^^v '

(mm

Croton on Hudson

Of-

Village
Local Law No.

of

A local Iaw------^-]-?P-tl-^-9--3.j:etArment.Jnc
(Insert

Tille)

bx.CA?pter_86j__Law
of the Village of Croton on Hudson.

Be it enacted by the

-mm

of.

Board of Trustees^
(Name ofLe^lative

ofthe

Body)

,?l??.?.l-?_l.l'^f!?.?n

as follows:

Village
Section 1.

The Village of Croton on Hudson hereby elected to
Provide all of its eligible employees with a retirement
incentive program authorized by Chapter 86, Laws of
2000.

Section 2.

The commencement date of the retirement incentive
program shall be October 10, 2000.

Section 3.

The open period during which eligible employees may
Retire and receive the additional retirement benefit, shall
Be 81 days in length.

Section 4.

The actuarial present value of the additional retirement benefits
payable pursuant to the provisions of this local law shall be
paid as one lump sum, or in five annual installments, as
determined by the Village. The amount of the annual payment
shall be determined by the Actuary of the New York State and Local
Employees' Retirement System, and it shall be paid by the
Village of Croton on Hudson for each employee who receives
the retirement benefits payable under this local law.

Section 5.

This act shall take effect August 30, 2000.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev.7/91)

(1)

(Complete the certiflcation in the paragraph that applies to the fliing of this local law and
strilce out that which is not appiicabie.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify lhat the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of ^9-^-—
of the (G6i:i»M:y)^$y)('K)Wtt)(Village) of
Cxi3tOJ1..0.n blucLs^a
was duly passed by the
£Qar£l-Of-Ir.u.sLe£Son—.^JJV ^ ^ ^ ^ n accordance wilh the appUcable provisions oflaw.
(Name of Legislative

Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapprovai
by the Elective Chief Executive Offlcer*.)
I hereby cerlify that the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(Cily)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the

-

(Elective Chief Executive

-

and was deemed duly adopted on

19—,

Officer*)

in accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegislative

Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

(Elective Chief Executive

19—-. Such local law was submitted

Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majoriiy of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19—- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was flled requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify lhal the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(Cily)(Town)(Wlage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed afler
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Electee

on
Chief Executive

19 — . Such local law was subject to

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petilion requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19-— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive offlcer ofa county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county iegisiative body, the mayor of a city or viiiage, or
the supervisor ofa town where such offlcer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby cerlify that the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No.
of 19
of the City of
having been submilled lo referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmalive vole of a majority of the
qualified eleclore of such city voting thereon al the (special)(general) eleclion held on
19----,
became operative.

6. (County locai law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby cerlify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submiited lo the eleclore
at the General Election of November
19—, pursuant lo subdivisions 5 and 7 of seclion 33 oflhe
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vole of a majoriiy of the qualified eleclore of the cities ofsaid county as a unit and a majority oflhe quaHfied eleclore oflhe towns ofsaid county considered as a unit
voiing al said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnaiadoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph—-°-—-—, above.
A
^
/A / A I

,

A

mk¥i:)km^Cfm^\k^^Amm>m^
(Seal)

Date:

y

)\LAMA
vniage cierk

^^/OO

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attoraey, Corporation Counsel, Tbwn Attoraey, Village Attorney or
other authorized attoraey oflocality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

cou^^TOF WESTCHESIER
I, the undereigned, hereby certify lhat the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or laken for the enactment of the localI law
herelo.
law tfttnexed
aRtnexed herelo.
ature
SigDatui

\ \

Village Attorney
Title

mm.

_r

Village
Dale: (3)

Croton on Hudson

On motion of TRUSTEE McCarthy, seconded by TRUSTEE Watkins, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Croton-onHudson, New York
WHEREAS, two (2) employees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson have
petitioned the Village Manager to adopt a local law authorized by Chapter 86, Laws of
2000 for eligible employees to participate in the 2000 NYS Retirement Incentive
Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Manager has apprised the Village Board of those
employees wishing to take part in said incentive program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Manager has set October 10, 2000 as the commencement
date for the 2000 NYS Retirement Incentive Program, and December 29, 2000 as the
closing date encompassing a total of 81 days in which eligible employees may choose to
retire,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby
instructed to proceed with setting the public hearing on Monday, August 7, 2000, at 8:00
p.m. on the Local Law electing a retirement incentive by Chapter 86, Laws of 2000.

July 24, 2000


