---
title: "LL 4-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-09-24
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 4-1998
Filed: 1998-09-24
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 4-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-09-24
---

Local Law 4-1998
Filed: 1998-09-24


T
17
rr'1'
L o c a l L a w rlllftg

NEWYORKSTATEDEPARTMENTOFSTATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to flle a local law wltii the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include mailer being eUminated a^''
italics or underiining lo indicate new malter.
gUy

^j.

Q^y^^'^^'
'"^
\

^
^^1^^

Croton on Hudson

Village
Local Law No
A local law

oftiie year 19-?8

^iD^.OdiD.Q--?.??.^.OA..230r7.?„^^^^
(Imei^Tide)

Duties of Village Engineer

Be it enacted by the

Board, of Trustees

ofthe

(Name efLeptlative Body)

^ty

of

Croton on Hudson

asfoliows:

Village

Sec. 1. § 230-79 ofthe Village Code is hereby amended to add a new paragraph C, reading as follows:
C. If, in the judgment of the Village Engineer, a building under consmiction is sited so close to a
required setback line as to create a reasonable possibility that in the construction process the building will
intrude upon the required setback, then the Village Engineer is empowered torequirethe owner to provide
an "as built" survey after the foundation is poured and before any additional construction proceeds: and
his notice to that effect to the owner or builder shall operate lo suspend consdTiction until such "as Built"
survey is fumished to him and he determines that no inttiision into the required setback or other violation
has occurred.

Sec. 2. This local law shall take effect immediately in filing In the office ofthe Secretary ofState.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 I Rev. 7.01 >

(1)

Sec. 1. § 230-79 of the Village Code is hereby amended to add a new paragraph C, reading as follows:
C. If, in the judgment ofthe Village Engineer, abuiiding under construction is sited too close to a
required setback line as to create a reasonable possibility that in the construction process the building will
intrude upon the required setback, then the Village Engineer is empowered to require the owner to provide
an "as built" survey after the foundation is poured and before any additional construction proceeds: and
his notice to that effect to the owner or builder shall operate lo suspend construction until such "as built"
survey is fumished lo him and he determines that no intrusion into therequiredsetback or other violation
has occurred.
Sec. 2. This local law shall take effect immediately in filing in the office ofthe Secretary ofState.

(Complete the certiflcation In the paragraph that applies to theflUngof this local law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Pinal adoption by locai legislative body only.)
I hereby certify thai the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19of the (X)«ftJ%)(eHy)(TbJ«ti)(Village) of
Croton ..qn. Hud.Spn......
was duly passed by the
.B0.3r.Cl..P,f..Ir.uat.eas.... on
-9/8.
19 -98, in accordance with the applicable provisions ofiaw.
(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Offlcer*.)
I hereby certify Ihat the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No.
-of 19
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Vinage) of
was duly passed by the
___
on
19 ---, and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Bodyi

disapproval) by the

--- and was deemed duly adopled on

19-— ,

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Pinal adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designaled as local law No. - of 19of the (County)(City)(Town)(ViUage) of —was duly passed by the
-on
19--" , and was (approved)(nol approvedXrepassed after
(Name of Legalative Body)

disapproval) bythe—

-

-

- on-

--

19—-. Such local law was submitted

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (ma nda tory )(pe rmissive)referendum,andreceivedthe affirmalive vole of a majority of
the qualified eleclore voiing thereon al the (general)(special)(annual) eleciion beld on —- 19---- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no vaiid petition was flied requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (Cou nly )(City)(Town)( Vil lage) of
-was duly passed by the
on - - 19— , and was (approved)(not approvedXrepassed after
(Name of Legislative Bndyi

disapproval) by the

-

on

19---. Such local law was subject to

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*/

permissive referendum and no valid pelilion requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19.--- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive offlcer of a county elected on a countywide basis or. If there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor ofa city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceraing Charter revision proposed by petition.)
f hereby certify that the locai law annexedfaereto,designated as local law No.
of 19
ofthe Cily of
having been submitled toreferendumpureuant lo the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majorily of the
qualified electore of such city voiing thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
-—
19--,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
-of 19
of lhe County of
Stale of New York, having been submitted lo the electore
at the General Election of November
19—-, pureuanl lo subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and havingreceivedthe affirmalive vote ofa majority oflhe quaHfied electore ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electore of the lowns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law wilh the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and wa^ fi^Hjj adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph-—^P-^---, above.
EKM:)6K«d(Q»6ttK>^^d(^<^l^KK)^^^^>6r Village Clerk
or officer designated by local legislative tKKly

(Seal)

Dale:.

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attoraey, Corporation Counsel, Town Attomey, Village Attorney or
other authorized attoraey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YOR>

COUNTY OF

^Westchester

I , the undereigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct lexl and that all proper proceedings
have be^n had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed herelo.

ignature
Signatur

\ j

^-

V i l l a g e Attorney
Title

<^

Croton on Hudson

Village

Date:

. --'y-1
(3)

\m


