---
title: "LL 5-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-01-01
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 5-1998
Filed: 2000-01-01
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 5-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-01-01
---

Local Law 5-1998
Filed: 2000-01-01


Section 137-3. Prohibited Acts.
No person shall write, paint, draw or otherwise affix any inscription,figureor mark
of any type on any building, public or private, or any other property, real or personal,
owned, operated or maintained by any public benefit corporation, the Village of Crotonon-Hudson or by any person, corporation or other entity or any agency or instrumentality
thereof, without the express written permission of the owner of the property or his agent.
Secfion 137-4. Responsibilities of owner.
It is the responsibility oftiie owner, or his agent, of the building or structure which
has been defaced by graffiti without the owner's, or his agent's, prior written permission
to completely remove said graffiti from the building or structure within twenty (20) days
of written notice ofthe defacement by the Village Code Enforcement Officer, Chief of
Police or the designee of either of them, said notice having been served personally or as
otherwise permitted by law. For good cause shown, tiie twenty (20)- day period may be
extended by either the Village Code Enforcement Officer or the Chief of Police.
Section 137-5. Penalties for offenses.
A. Any person who violates § 3 or § 4 of this chapter shall be punished subject to the
penalties prescribed by Section 1-12 ofthe Village Code.
B. In addition to any other penalty authorized by this section, any person convicted of
violating § 3 shall, if the graffiti has not yet been removed, be required to completely
remove said graffitifiromthe building, structure or property so as to restore the site to the
condition existing prior to commission of the violation.
Section 137-6. When effective.
This chapter shall become effective upon filing ofthe same with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certiflcation In the paragraph that appHes to theflUngof this locai law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local iegislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19-?-?..
of the ( ^ i m i ) ( € i C K W ^ ^
of
^r.Q.tp.n _p.n .Hu.d5Q.O
was duly passed by the
o.l.Xny.sMes
on —-1.0./.5
19 9-8., in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name ofLegislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Offlcer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Tbwn)(VilIage) of
was duly passedfcythe
on
19 — , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
C^aiHf ofLegislative Body)

disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

in accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Vi llage) of was duly passed by the
,on
19—, and was (approved)(not approvedXrepassed after
(Name of Legitiative Bedy)

disapproval) by the

on

19

Such local law was submitted

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

to the people byreasonof a (mandatory)(permissive)referendum,andreceivedthe affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electore voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19--- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petitton was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (Counly)(City)(Tbwn)p'mage) trf -'^
—
was duly passed by the
on
19- , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

on

19 — , Such local law was subject to

(ElectSm ChiefExecutive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petitionrequeslingsuchreferendumwas filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19-— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or hicludes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor ofa city or vilhige, or
the supervisor ofa town where such offlcer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceming Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed herelo, designated as local law No.
of 19
oflhe City of
having been submitted lo referendum pureuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and havingreceivedthe affirmative vole of a majorily of lhe
quaUfied eleclore of such cily voting thereon at the (special)(general) eieclion held on
19—-,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the Couniy of
Slate of New York, having been submitted to the electore
at the General Election of November
19—, pureuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and havingreceivedthe affirmalive vole ofa majority oflhe quaUfied electore ofthe cities of said counly as a unil and a majorily of the qualified eleclore of the towns of said counly considered as a unil
voting al s?id general election, became operalive.
(If any other authorized form offlnaladoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correcl transcript iherefrom and of tfae wfaole of sucfa original local law, an4 was finally adopled in the manner indicated in paragraph—-P-O.Q—, above.

or officer designated by lo(») LegisUtive body

(Seal)

Date:.

(Certlflcatton to be executed by County Attoraey, Corporation Counsel, Ibwn Attoraey, Village Attoraey or
other authorized attoraey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
cotTOTYOF - Wegtchegtgr
I , the undereigned, hereby certify that tfae foregoing local law contains tfae correct text and tfaal all proper proceedings
faave been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed herelo.

Signature

Village Attorney
Title

KMy

Croton on Hudson

Village
Date:

\0 / ' " ^ / ^ g
(3)


