---
title: "LL 6-2002: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2002-06-17
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 6-2002
Filed: 2002-06-17
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 6-2002: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2002-06-17
---

Local Law 6-2002
Filed: 2002-06-17


3

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Cogal^Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231
STATE OF KCM VORK

FILED
Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 6 of the year 2002

jyi^ 17 2002
MISCELLANEOUS
& STATE RECORDS

A local law amending Section 227-17, Wetlands and Watercourses, regarding filing and
distribution of copies of applications and supporting documentation.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1.

The first sentence of Section 227-17 of the Village Code is hereby amended to
read as follows:
Seven (7) completed copies of the application, together with seven (7) copies of
the supporting plans and documentation, including environmental clearance forms
or environmental assessment forms, where necessary, shall be filed with the
Village Engineer, who shall retain two (2) copies and forward five (5) copies to
the Commission.

Section 2. This Local Law shall be effective upon filing in the office of the Secretary of State.

^

^

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. —
of 20-Q2
ofthe (C6JiH5^)^Hy)(5Ii4^(Village) of -Qr.Qt0J1..0J]..audS.0n
was duly passed by the
....-B.Qa.rd..0.t.JrLLS.te.e.S....
on—fi/-l-Q
20.02, in accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.
(Name of Legislative

Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
—
on
20 - - , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the —

--

(Elective Chief Executive

—

and was deemed duly adopted on

20----,

Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
— on
20 ---, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the

-

(Elective Chief Executive

on

20— . Such local law was submitted

Officer*)

to the people by reason o f a (mandalory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote o f a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20--- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(ViIlage) of
was duly passed by the
on
20— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive

on

20 — . Such local law was subject to

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

2ft--- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor ofa city or village, or
the supervisor ofa town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (Cify local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
--- of 20
of the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
quaUfied electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20—,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
— of 20
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
2 0 — , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 ofsection 33 ofthe
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote ofa majority ofthe quahfied electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph—9_G^—, above.

S.U^ Mil

mm%m<mmmm^imm%m'mA)ii^ vinage cierk
or officer designated by local legislati^ body

(Seal)

c/lo/o2

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTYOF -

WESTCHESTER
I , the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or laken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Title

Tbwn
Village
Date: -

6 /lof
(3)


