---
title: "LL 6-2022: A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 223 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, WATER, TO UPDATE PROCEDURE"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-06-14
chapters: Ch 223
status: current
---

LL 6-2022
Filed: 2022-06-14
Amends: Ch 223
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 223 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, WATER, TO UPDATE PROCEDURES REGARDING WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND METER INSTALLATION AND CHARGES

---
title: "Local Law 6-2022: A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 223 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, WATER, TO UPDATE PROCEDURE"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-06-14
---

Local Law 6-2022
Filed: 2022-06-14
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 223 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, WATER, TO UPDATE PROCEDURES REGARDING WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND METER INSTALLATION AND CHARGES

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Aibany. NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

( U s e t h i s f o r m t o f i l e a local l a w w i t h t h e S e c r e t a r y o f State.)
Text of law should be given as a m e n d e d . Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

FILED
STATERECORDS

^Village

(Select ons:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.

o f t h e y e a r 2022

06

TMENTOF STATE

A local l a w *° ^niend Chapter 223 of the Village Code, Water, to update procedures regarding water
(Insert Title)

sen/ice connections and meter installation and charges

Be it e n a c t e d b y t h e Village Board ofTrustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

DCity

DTown

(XjVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 06 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 223, WATER, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE PROCEDURES REGARDING
WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND METER INSTALLATION AND CHARGES
Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 223-4(B) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
All fees for water service connections must be paid in advance. The fee amounts shall be set from
time to time by resolution of the Board ofTrustees. Prior to any work being performed in the street
right-of-way, all other required permits shall be obtained from the appropriate agency.
Section Two. Section 223-6(A) ofthe Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
All water must be supplied by meter measurement except for private fire hydrants and/or fire
sprinkler service except if required by the Department. If a meter is required for a private hydrant
and/or fire sprinkler service, then the owner must furnish, install and maintain such meter at no
cost to the Village or Department. Property owners with unmetered private fire hydrants on their
property shail be required to pay an annual fee. Said fee shall be established by resolution of the
Board ofTrustees.
Section Three. Section 223-6(C) of the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
All meters must be installed by the owner or licensed plumber at his or her own expense.
Replacement meters up to a maximum size of 1 1/2 inches will be furnished by and installed by the
Department after the payment of a fee which shall be set from time to time by resolution of the
Board ofTrustees. Replacement meters above the prescribed maximum size shall be fumished,
installed and maintained by the owner at the owner's expense. Replacement Radio Interface
Modules which have failed through no fault of the property owner will be fumished by and
installed by the Department at no cost. Those modules which have failed through negligence or
damage shall be furnished and installed by the Department, and the property owner shall pay a
replacement fee which has been established by resolution ofthe Board ofTrustees. Shutoff valves
must be placed on the outlet side and on the inlet side of all water meters. These valves must be
installed within two feet of the water meter. Meters shall be installed and located where they are
not subject tofreezingand are readily accessible for removal by Department personnel. All meters
shall be installed in accordance with the Department's water service installation diagram or plan
approved by the Village Engineer. In no case shall any branch line or any form of outlet be
connected to the service at any point between the main and the meter.

Section Four. Section 223-6(G) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
In the case ofa disputed account involving the accuracy of a meter, such meter shall be tested, if
within the Department's jurisdiction, upon a request of the owner or consumer. All meter testing
shall be paid for by the owner/consumer and payment shall be made at the time the request for the
testing is made. In the event that the meter so tested upon a request of the owner/consumer is found
to have an error in registration (more than 1.5%, plus or minus), the bill will be increased or
decreased accordingly, but no retroactive reimbursement shall be made to the owner/consumer for
previous billing period(s). If the meter is found to be over-registering by more than the aforesaid
allowable rate, then the cost of the test shall be borne by the Department, and the amount paid for
the test shall be returned to the owner or consumer. If the meter so tested shall be found to have no
error in registration (less than 1.5%, plus or minus) the payment shall be retained by the
Department as compensation for such test. The fee for testing of meters shall be set by resolution
by the Board ofTrustees.
Section Five. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shali not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Six. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(Cify)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board ofTrustees
on -June 6
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 20£2
of
y^as duly passed by the
, In accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify thatthe local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Vi[lage) of
was duly passed by the
on
20,
., and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

3.

2o|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permlsslve) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(speclal)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, In accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or. if there
be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supen/isor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-W (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (Cify local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the Cify of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
.State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office^and-thatthe same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was flnally^^fiopled in the manner Indicated in
paragraph ,
above.

/
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

pferk of the cdunt^ legijlative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body '?rt-ov*:i^ 'X> r Scu-i^ t

Date:

L'\ 9C [x'Q 2S

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board ofTrustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #78-2022
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 223 of the Village Code,
Water, to update procedures regarding water service connections and meter
installation and charges, and
WHEREAS the Village Board ofTrustees is considering the adoption ofLocal Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2022, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on June 6, 2022, a Public Hearing was opened and closed, and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board ofTrustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2022 to amend Chapter 223 of the Village
Code, Water, to update procedures regarding water service connections and meter
installation and charges, which upon adoption becomes Local Law 6 of 2022.

Dated: June 6, 2022
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board ofTrustees of said Village held on June 6*, 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal ofthe said Village this 08*^ day of June 2022.

Vintage Clerk
(Seat)-

:


