---
title: "LL 6-2019: TO PERMIT DAY CARE USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT IN THE C 2 ZONING DISTRICT"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-05-24
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 6-2019
Filed: 2019-05-24
Amends: 
TO PERMIT DAY CARE USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT IN THE C 2 ZONING DISTRICT

---
title: "Local Law 6-2019: TO PERMIT DAY CARE USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT IN THE C 2 ZONING DISTRICT"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-05-24
---

Local Law 6-2019
Filed: 2019-05-24
TO PERMIT DAY CARE USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT IN THE C 2 ZONING DISTRICT

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
wvw.dos.state, ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

•City

•Town

[XlVillage

8TA:Ff RECORDS

(Select one:)

o f Croton-on-Hudson

Local L a w No.

06

of the year 2019

A local l a w ^° P®'"'^'t day-care uses by special permit in the C-2 zoning district,
(Insert Title)

Be it e n a c t e d by t h e Village Board ofTrustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

QTown

|X]Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-M (Rev, 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 6-2019
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND SECTION 230-17 OF THE ZONING CHAPTER OF THE
CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, BY ADDING A NEW
SECTION PERMITTING DAY-CARE USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
IN THE C-2 ZONING DISTRICT
Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-17 is hereby amended to add a new Section 230-17.8(9) as follows:
§ 230-17.B(9). Day-care centers, subject to the following conditions aiid limitations:
(a)

There shall be no more than one day-care center per lot.

(b)

The limits of any outdoor play area or recreation area shall not extend closer than
20 feet to any residential property line.

(e)

The day-care center shall comply with all applicable conditions and limitations of
the New York Slate Department of Social Services relating to the operation and
licensing of day-care centers and shall have all required licenses and certificates.

Section Two. Severability
If any seclion, subsection, clause, phrase or other poilion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 oflhe Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this iocal law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the {County){City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on May 20

20l5

of 202^
of
v^^as ciuiy passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

(Name of Legislative Body)

provisions of (aw.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of „
was duly passed by the
.
.
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the.^
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*}
on

20|

I

and was deemed duly adopted

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) bythe

on

20 __.. ..

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandalory)(permissive) referendum, and received the afl'irmafive
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) eiecfion held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No,

_of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

was duly passed by the

—

on

20

of

, and was (approved){not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer')

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid pefifion requesfing such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

' Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances,

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of secfion (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city vofing
thereon at the (special)(general) eiecfion held o n _ ^
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20 .,
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of secfion 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmafive vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general eiecfion, became operafive,

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adogtsd-trrttre-manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
~
.-'Xlerk of the county legl§lay\/e body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body
^'/^-o'^^^!^

(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

-V^T^t: / /

^ij^iA^

^

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLl, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the
following vote: 5-0.
Resolution

#75 of

2019

WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Section 230-61 of the Zoning Chapter of the Village
Code to change the deadline for the mailing of public notices for special permit applications from
15 days to lO days before the public hearing; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2019 has been drafted to amend Section 2 3 0 - 6 1 ;
and
WHEREAS, a Public Heanng was opened and closed on May 20, 2019,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board ofTrustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2019 amending Section 230-61 of the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law 7 of 2019.
Dated: May 20, 2019

State of New York

)
ss:

County of Westchester

)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Cierk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State of NQV\/ York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an onginal on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on May 20, 2019.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal o f t h e
said Village this 22 day of May 2019.

(Seal)


