---
title: "LL 7-2019: TO AMEND SECTION 230-61 OF THE ZONING CHAPTER OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO CHANGE THE "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-05-24
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 7-2019
Filed: 2019-05-24
Amends: 
TO AMEND SECTION 230-61 OF THE ZONING CHAPTER OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO CHANGE THE DEADLINE FOR THE MAILING OF PUBLIC NOTICES FOR SPECIAL PERMIT APPLICATIONS FROM 15 DAY TO 10 DAYS BEFORE THE PUBLIC HEARING

---
title: "Local Law 7-2019: TO AMEND SECTION 230-61 OF THE ZONING CHAPTER OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO CHANGE THE "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-05-24
---

Local Law 7-2019
Filed: 2019-05-24
TO AMEND SECTION 230-61 OF THE ZONING CHAPTER OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO CHANGE THE DEADLINE FOR THE MAILING OF PUBLIC NOTICES FOR SPECIAL PERMIT APPLICATIONS FROM 15 DAY TO 10 DAYS BEFORE THE PUBLIC HEARING

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commerciai Code
One Commerce Plaza. 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
vwwv.dos,state,ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do riot^use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

•City

^Town

(XjVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local L a w No.
A local l a w

o f t h e y e a r 2019

07

^^^^"^^ Secfion 230-61 of the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code
(Insert Title)

~~

to change the deadline for the mailing of public nofices for special permit applications
from 15 days to 10 days before the public hearing

Be it e n a c t e d by t h e Village Board ofTrustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

QCity

QTown

[X]Village

(Select one:)

o f Croton-on-Hudson

a s follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-i (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

V I L L A G E OF CROTON-O.N-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
L O C A L L A W NO. 7-2019
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND SECTION 230-61 OF THE ZONING CHAPTER OF THE CODE
OF THE V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TO REVISE THE DEADLINE FOR MAILING
OF PUBLIC NOTICES
Be it enacted by the Board ofTrustees ofthe Village of Croton-on-ITudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-61 is hereby amended as follows:
§ 230-61 Referral to county; notice of public hearing.
Applications shall be referred, when required by law, to the Westchester County Planning Department for
review pursuant to the Westchester County Administrative Code at least 30 days prior to the required
public hearing. Notice of the pubiic hearing shall be published at least once not less than 10 days prior to
the date of the hearing in the oflicial newspaper, and notice of hearing shall be mailed not less than ; 10
days prior to the date of the hearing lo all owners of property abutting and within 200 feet of the property
for which such application is made and lo any other person(s) the Board ofTrustees may deem to be
particularly affected. In the case of any special permit application pertaining to real property within a
distance of 500 feet of the boundaries of any municipality or state or county road, park or other stateowned facility, notice of such hearing shall be mailed to the Clerk of such municipality, and to the County
F^lanning Department not less than 10 days prior to such hearing. Provided that due notice shall have been
published and that there shall have been subslantial compliance wilh the remaining provisions of this
seclion, the failure to give notice in exact conformance herewith shall not be deemed to invalidate any
action taken in connection with the grant or denial of any special permit.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or olher portion of this Local Law is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall
continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary of
Stale in accordance with section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board ofTrustees
on
20
20 "19
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 202f
of
was duly passed by the
in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved){not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20_

^.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer')

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors vofing thereon at the (general)(special){annual) eiecfion held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

^of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(\/illage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20.

, Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a \owr\ where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l {Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 ot 4

5. (City iocal law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city vofing
thereon at the (special)(general) eiecfion held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20.^
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of secfion 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cifies of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general eiecfion, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this officeand that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such ohginal local law, and was finally adppt63Tn the rnartn^r indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
Clerk^ofrtlie'^^rl^'l^^ive body. City, Town or Village Clerkor .
officer designated by loCarlegislative body
~Pfi-viCi^ p ' ^'^-r-(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev, 06/12)

Date:

^ M : / ' / /

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE OLVER, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLl, the following resolution was
adopt:ed by the Board of Trustees of t;he Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the
following vote: 5-0.
Resolution

#76 of

2019

WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Section 230-61 of the Zoning Chapter of the Village
Code to change the deadline for the mailing of public notices for special permit applications from
15 days to 10 days before the public hearing; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2019 has been drafted to amend Section 2 3 0 - 6 1 ;
and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on May 20, 2019,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board ofTrustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2019 amending Section 230-61 of the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law 7 of 2019.

Dated: May 20, 2019

State of New York

)
ss;

County of Westchester

)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on May 20, 2019.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village this 22 day of May 2019.

Village Clerk

(Seal)


