---
title: "LL 7-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-08-30
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 7-1999
Filed: 1999-08-30
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 7-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-08-30
---

Local Law 7-1999
Filed: 1999-08-30


Local L a w Filing

NEW VORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STA,^
41 STATE STREET. ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form tofilea local law with the Secretary of State.)
lext of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated^%i9^
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
^t^'^Y V * ^ ' a
em

'

Croton on Hudson

LocalLawNo

1.

oftiieyear

19-?-?-%^

A local iaw---.?3-?-?-y-na„i.r.?!!;ixp.!per.LA
(InttrtTUlt)

by Chapter 70, Laws of 1999, for the e l i g i b l e employees
of the V i l l a g e of Croton on Hudson

Be it enacted by

tiie

MC.d. .9.^ IC^J

oftiie

(Name i^LtgitUtivt Body)

^

of

asfbllows:

Jnwn
Village

Sec. 1. The Village of Croton on Hudson hereby elects to provide
all of its eligible employees with a retirement incentive
program authorized by Chapter 70, Laws of 1999.
Sec. 2. The commencement date of the retirement incentive program
shall be October 4, 1999.
Sec. 3. The open period during which eligible employees may retire
and receive the additional retirement benefit, shall be 88
days in length.
Sec. 4. The actuarial present value of the additional retirement
benefits payable pursuant to the provisions of this local
law shall be paid as one lump sum, or in five annual Installments
The amount of the annual payment shall be determined by the
Actuary of the New York State and Local Employees' Retirement
System, and i t shall be paid by the Village of Croton on Hudson
for each employee who receives the retirement benefits payable
under this local law.
Sec.-5. This act shall take effect August 16, 1999.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(1)

(Complete the certiflcation in the paragraph that applies to thefilingof this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19-?.?of the (QMiMMr)«XJly)(^i««i)(ViIlage) of
3:9-1-^^--ay-^-^-^-H
was duly passed by the
P.oard ,p.f J r ustees
on
19 -9.9, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Namt of LtgisUtivt Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval orrepassageafter disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Tbwn)(Village) of
was duiy passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(uot approved)(repassed after
(Name ef Legislativt Body)

disapproval) by the — ,

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(EUctivt ChUf Extcutivt Officer*}

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19-— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of LtgisUtivt Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

19

Such local law was submitted

(Eltctivt Chitf Executive Officer*)

to the people byreasonof a (mandatory)(peniussive)referendum,andreceivedthe affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19-— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissivereferendumandflnaladoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Tbwn)fVn!age) uf ---^
—
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLeguUtivt Body)

disapproval) by the—-

on

19—. Such local law was subject to

(EUctivt ChUf Extcutivt OffUtr*}

permissive referendum and no valid petitionrequestingsuchreferendumwas filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19.— , in

* Elective Clilef Executive Officer means or Indudes the chief executive officer ofa county elected on a countywide basis or. If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village) or
the supervisor ofa town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5^ (City local law conceraing Charterrevisionproposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the City of
having been submitted toreferendumpursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote ofa majority ofthe
qualified electois of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—,
became operative.

6. (Counfy local law conceraing adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe
Municipal Home Rule Law, and havingreceivedthe affirmative vote of a majority of the quaUfied electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the maimer indicated in paragraph—9n§—, above,
r ) f)
I i P

or oOicer designated by load legislative body

(Seal)

Date:.

(Certification to be executed by County Attoraey, Corporation Cotmsel, Tbwn Attoraey, Village Attoraey or
other authorized attoraey of locality.)
STATE OF NHW YORK

r^tt^r..

WESTCHESTER

1, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment ofthe local law annexed hereto.

Signatun

Village Attorney
Title

<SM

-

VUlage
Dale: (3)

Croton on Hudson


