---
title: "LL 8-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-06-25
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 8-2001
Filed: 2001-06-25
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 8-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-06-25
---

Local Law 8-2001
Filed: 2001-06-25


5

Local L a w Filing

NEWYORKSTATEDEPARTMENTOFSTATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231
STATE OF NEW YORK

(Use this form tofllea local iaw with the Secretary of State.)

^^f^^^p

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use'
italics or underiining to indicate new matter.
jyj^ 2 J 2001

S S L of
Village

?-r.o?l°J}--9_n--lU-?.5.9n

MISCELLANEOUS
& STATE RECORDS

Local Law No, - —

ofthe year^^i-?-QP^

amending Section 230-18 of the Zoning Law with respect
^.

A local law

(inse^^u^ses permitted and prohibited, and the requirement
of a special permit.

Be It enacted by the

^.''.^X.^...9.tl^^^^^^^

ofthe

(Name ^LegtsUtive Body)

of

as follows:

Village

Sec. 1. Section 230-18 of the Zoning Law, paragraphs A and B are
amended, and new paragraphs C, D, and E added, to read as follows:

§ 230-18 Light Industrial Ll District
A.

Purpose. The Light Industrial Ll District is designed to accomnnodate such light
manufacturing and related uses as are consistent with the needs and welfare of
the community. Uses in this district shatl be grouped according to compatibility
and performance in order not to create a nuisance to the community or the
adjacent users.

B.

Permitted Uses. No building or premises shall be used and no building or part of
a building shall be erected which is arranged, intended, or designed to be used,
in whole or in part, for any use, except the following:
(1)

Business and professional offices, including related showrooms.

(2)

Railroad lines and stations.

(Ifadditional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(1)

(3)
C.

Motor vehicle parking structures and parking lots, conforming to § 230-51
F hereof.

Special Permit Uses. Subject to the issuance of a special permit therefor by the
Village Board ofTrustees, and excluding those uses prohibited under paragraph
E. ofthis Section, the following uses:
(1)

Light manufacturing, assembling, converting, altering, finishing, cleaning
or any other processing of products.

(2)

Research and design and development laboratories excluding laboratories
that use or process biological, radioactive and hazardous materials, heavy
metals, or asbestos.

(3)

Storage and dispensing of motor fuel and lubricants, but only as part of
motor vehicle parking lots and of structures for the parking of motor
vehicles.

(4)

Hotels, inns, and restaurants.

(5)

Occasional retail sales incidental to the conduct of any of the uses
permitted under this subsection and subject to such frequency and other
conditions as may be imposed by the Village Board of Trustees.

(6)

Utilities, including but not limited to structures for the provision of
electricity, gas, and water; radio and television transmission stations;
telephone, telegraph, and cablegram facilities.

(7)

Warehousing and wholesaling; freight distribution centers and terminals;
except that any handling, storage, or distribution of flammable,
combustible, explosive or hazardous materials shall be prohibited.

D.

The above uses shall comply with the area and bulk standards listed in Section
230-37 including the minimum lot size of three (3) acres, except that the Village
Board of Trustees may, by the issuance of a special permit, allow a lot area of
less than three (3) acres but not less than one (1) acre.

E.

Prohibited Uses. Solid and liquid waste transfer and storage stations and landfills
(including construction and demolition materials) are prohibited. Forthe purposes
ofthis section, solid and liquid wastes are defined as follows:
All putrescible and non-putrescible materials or substances that are discarded or
rejected as being spent, useless, worthless, or in excess to the owners at the
time of such discard or rejection, including but not limited to liquids, garbage
refuse, industrial, commercial and household waste, sludges from air or water

166491 vl

treatment facilities, rubbish, tires, ashes, contained gaseous material, incinerator
ash and residue and construction and demolition debris. In addition:
1.

A material is "discarded" if it is abandoned by being:
a.
b.
c.

2.

disposed of;
burned or incinerated, including being burned as a fuel for the
purpose of recovering useable energy; or
accumulated, stored, or physically or chemically, or biologically
treated (other than burned or incinerated) instead of being disposed
of

A material is "disposed o f if it is discharged, deposited, injected, dumped,
spilled, leaked or placed into or on any land or water.

Sec. 2. The present paragraphs C through K of Section 230-18 are relettered
paragraphs F through N.

Sec. 3.
State.

166491 v l

This local law shall be effective upon filing in the office of the Secretary of

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to thefliingof this iocal law and
strilce out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I1 hereby
nereov certify
ceniiy that
inai the
me local
locai law
iaw annexed
annexea hereto,
nereio, designated
aesignatea as
as local
loca law No. —-S

o^fO(-2I]01
was duly passed by the
accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage afler disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Tbwn)(ViUage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19 — , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegistative Body)

disapproval) by the

-

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(VilIage) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legistative Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

19— . Such local law was submitted

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

to the people by reason ofa (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote ofa majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19L— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was flled requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Tbwn)^6^age) trf
—
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name ofLegistative Body)

disapproval) by the

on

19 — . Such local law was subject to

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19-— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or Includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor ofa town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
ofthe City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—-,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
.of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—-, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote ofa majority ofthe quahfied electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(Ifany other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph-—^-"-—, above.
ViUage Clerk
or officer designated by local legislativi body

(Seal)

Date:

(Certlflcation to be executed by County Attomey, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attomey of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YOi

COUNTYOF

'^STCHESTER

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law
annexed nereto.
hereto.
aw annexea
Sigoature

Village Attorney
Title

gity

^

Village
Date: (3)

Croton on Hudson


