---
title: "LL 8-2022: TO AMEND VARIOUS CHAPTERS OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO FE"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-07-14
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 8-2022
Filed: 2022-07-14
Amends: 
TO AMEND VARIOUS CHAPTERS OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO FEES

---
title: "Local Law 8-2022: TO AMEND VARIOUS CHAPTERS OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO FE"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-07-14
---

Local Law 8-2022
Filed: 2022-07-14
TO AMEND VARIOUS CHAPTERS OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO FEES

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany. NY 12231-0001
www.dos,state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

FILED
STATt RECORDS

^Village

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

•liJi 14:?m
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law No.

of the year 2022

08

A local law *° ^i^®"^^ various Chapters ofthe Village Code to update provisions related to fees
(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body}

•County

GCity

DTown

[XlVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 8 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND VARIOUS CHAPTERS OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE
OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO FEES
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 86-11(B) of the Code ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows.
All permits issued under this Article shall be void and of no effect after six months from the date
of issue thereof (or eight months from the date of issue thereof if the permit has been extended),
unless the work for which the permit was issued has been actually commenced and not been
abandoned during that period. If any permit becomes void as herein provided, 1/2 of the fee paid
for such permit, not including any special fee covering examination of plans of a structure of
complex design, may be refunded to the person who obtained the permit, provided that no work
has been commenced and an application for refiind is made within the six- or eight-month period,
but in no case shall refunds be made on fees based on a construction of less than $1,000; and
provided, further, that, notwithstanding any other provision hereof, all permits shall expire two
years from the date of issuance unless the proposed work has been completed and a certificate of
occupancy has been issued or unless such permit is extended by the Board of Trustees. The permit
extension shall require a fee in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
Section Two. Section 132-3 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to read as follows:
Authorized organizations may, upon the obtainment of a license from the Clerk of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, conduct games of chance within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as provided
in Article 9-A of the General Municipal Law and as provided further in this chapter. Such games
of chance shall be conducted in accordance with the general state law and with the rules and
regulations of the New York State Racing and Wagering Board and this chapter. The license shall
require the payment of a fee in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Tnastees.
Section Three. Section 168-8(K) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
Sell or offer for sale any food, goods, wares or merchandise, except as authorized by the Village
Manager, and after the payment of a fee in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
Section Four. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jmisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and

independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the vaUdity ofthe remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Five. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. £ r
the (County)(City){Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on July 5
20^
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 2 0 ^ ^
of
^j^jjy passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved){not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on _ _ ^ _ _ _ _ _ „ _ 20|

3.

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Viilage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

., and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer nneans or includes the chief executivs officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there

be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. {City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20_.,^
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
^State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority ofthe
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in^thls-offPce andTtratthe same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was Jin^fiy adopted in the man/ier indicated in
paragraph,
above.
Clerk oime county legislati^ body. City, Town or Village Clerk or
offiggTaesignated byfeeaMegislativebody p^fwuiut i s ' t S ' i " - ^ ^ ^
(Seal)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #92-2022
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend various Chapters of the Village Code
to update provisions related to fees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2022 has been drafted to reflect such
language, and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 8 was opened on June
21 and closed on July 5, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2022 to amend various chapters of the
Village Code to update provisions related to fees, which upon adoption becomes
Local LawNo. 8 of 2022.
Dated: July 5, 2022
^
* ^lc
"T" "T'

^If ^
'T*

^ ^ "it
^£
^
•7'

'4e
***

^*

>i»
^ ^

-4^
" j * T»

^ ^

•i*
si*
A.
•7' ^
^ ^

mSm ^
^I*

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
L Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on July 5"^, 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal ofthe said Village this 08* day of July 2022.

Clerk
(Seai)^'


