---
title: "LL 8-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-01-11
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 8-1998
Filed: 1998-01-11
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 8-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-01-11
---

Local Law 8-1998
Filed: 1998-01-11


7 r t n n i 7 ntAt T i i l i n c r
LOCUI L U W r lllllg

NEWYORKSTATEDEPARTMENTOFSTATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY. NY 12231

(Use this form tofllea iocal law with the Secretary of State.)

^

Text of law should be given as amended. Do nol include mailer being eliminated ai^i^fftKllfi^J^
ilalics or underlining lo indicale new mailer.
p
L t

of Croton-on-Hudson

Jfkym
village

^ f,
^ " " ^ ^ ^ ^

LocalLawNo.————.—?-

of the year 19-5a.

A local law .---l.ncreasing..t.^e.-.f j-nfis...fQr..parMna-ia.han£l
(Ineert Tide)

....t.h?...V.U.1.39.e .P.f-..Qr.Q.tP.O.T.QD.T.H,u^^^^

Be it enacted by

ttie

Bo_ajd..of J.ruste.es

oftiie

(Neme ofLegirUtme Body)

of

.CrotpnT.Qn-Hud5.0n

as follows:

Village

Section 1- section 122-1.0.(5) (a) Parking fines for parking in handicapped spacesis hereby amended to increase the fine from seventy-five dollars ($75.) to one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.).
./

Section 2.

This local law shall be e f f e c t i v e upon f i l i n g with the Secretary of State.

(If addittonal space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(I)

^

(Compiete the certiflcation in the paragraph that applies to theflUngof this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
Ifaerebycertify that tfae local law annexed herelo, designaled as local law No
of 19--9-Sof Ifae (0(«iaiy^(eky)C5fl*JWfi)(Village) of
-C.r.Q.ton..on„H.ud5on
___
was duly passed by tfae
Board-O-f-.Tr-osiees
on —12/-2.1
19
in accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative

Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective ChiefExecutive Offlcer*.)
1 hereby certify that tfae local law annexedfaereto,designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(Cily)(Town)(ViUage) of was duly passed by Ifae
on
19 - - , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive

and was deemed duly adopled on

19—-,

Officer*)

in accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify tfaal the local law annexed herelo, designaled as local law No.
of 19
of the (Counly)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19---, and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
I Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by tfae --(Elective Chief Executive

—

- on—

19— . Such local law was submitted

Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (ma nda tory )(pe rmissive)referendum,andreceivedtfae aftirmalive vote of a majorily of
the qualified electore voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) eleciionfaeldon
- 19 -- , in
accordance witfa tfae applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaiadoption because no valid petitton was flled requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that tfae local law annexedfaerelo,designaled as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19----, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
I Name of Legislative

Body)

disapproval) by tfae -(Elective Chief Executive

--

on

19---. Sucfa local law was subject lo

Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid peiitionrequestingsucfareferendumwasfiledas of
accordance wilh tfae applicable provisions of law.

—-

- - 19 -- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chiefexecutive offlcer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative twdy, the mayor ofa city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law conceraing Charter revision proposed hy petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexedfaerelo,designated as local law No.
of 19
ofthe C i t y o f ---faavingbeen submilted lo referendum pureuant to tfae provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Mumcipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electore of such cily voting thereon al the (special)(general) election held on
-- 19---,
became operalive.

6. (County local law conceming adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexedfaerelo,designated as local law No
of 19
of lhe Counly of
State of New York,faavingbeen submitted to tfae eleclore
at the General Eleciion ofNovember
19----, pureuanl lo subdivisions 5 and 7 ofsection 33 of tfae
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of tfae quaUfied electore of tfae cities ofsaid counly as a unil and a majority of ifae qualified eleclore of the lowns of said counly considered as a unil
voiing al said general election, became operalive.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certlflcatton.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law wilh tfae original on file in tfais office and that the same
is a correcl transcript tfaerefrom and of tfae wfaole of sucfa original local law, and was fi^ally^addled in the manner indicated in paragraph-.-i^HS...., above.
/
I '\ i/)
$^M«)6KlK9(C%4d^K^dy<iXl»^^

(Seal)

Clerk

Date:.

(Certlflcatton to be executed by County Attomey, Corporatton Counsel, Town Attomey, VUlage Attorney or
other authorized attoraey of locaUty.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTY OF

WFSTCHESTER

I, the undereigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct texl and lhal all proper proceedings
have been had or laken for tfae enactment oflhe local law annexed hereto.

Signature

V i l l a g e Attorney
Tille

QoaMty
* ^
^jjVillage
Date: (3)

Croton on Hudson


