---
title: "LL 9-2018: REGARDING THE PROVISION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2018-11-13
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 9-2018
Filed: 2018-11-13
Amends: 
REGARDING THE PROVISION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING

---
title: "Local Law 9-2018: REGARDING THE PROVISION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2018-11-13
---

Local Law 9-2018
Filed: 2018-11-13
REGARDING THE PROVISION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING

New York State Department of State
. Division ofCorporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter. ,
•County OCity • T o w n
(Select one:)

.

[xjVillage

'

of Croton-on-Hudson

ofthe year 2018

Local Law No. 9

A local law REGARDING THE PROVISION OF AFFORDABLE.HOUSING
(Insert We) ' - • '

~

Be it enacted by the ^"'^9^

of Tmstees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County pCity
(Select one:) . -'. '-.
of Croton-onrHudsbn

QTown

[x]Village
':

as follows:

See attached.

FILED
STATE RECOra?®'?

NOV 13 20t8
DEPARTMENT OF STA19.I

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
LOCAL LAW #9 2018
A LOCAL LAW REGARDING THE PROVISION OF AFFORDABI^E HOUSING
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1.
There is hereby added to Chapter 230 ZONING ofthe Code ofthe
Villageof Croton-on-Hudson a new Section 230-48 to read as follows:
§230-48. Supplementary standards for the provision of affordable housing units.

f i l Aff9rc|ql|il9 Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing fAFFHl Unit
a] A for-purchase housing unit that is affordable to a household whose income
does not exceed 80% ofthe area median income (AMI) for Westchester as
defined annually by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) and for which the annual housing cost of a unit including common
charges, principal, interest, taxes and insurance (PITI) does not exceed 33%
of 80% AMI,.adjusted for family size and that is marketed in accordance with
the Westchester County Fair & Affordable Housing Affirmative Marketing
Plan, and

i

£.

b) A rental unit that is affordable to a household whose income does not exceed
60% AMI and for which the annual housing cost ofthe unit, defined as rent
plus any tenant paid utilities, does not exceed 30% of 60% AMI adjusted for
family size and that is marketed in accordance with the Westchester County
Fair & Affordable Housing Affirmative Marketing Plan.
Required Afforda^ile^FFH Upit Component
(1) Within all residential developments of ten (10) or more units created by
subdivision or site plan approval, no less than 10% of the total number of
units must be created as AFFH units. Rounding shall be done as follows: for
ten.to fourteen (10-14) housing units - one (1) AFFH unit; for fifteen to
twenty-four (15-24) housing units - two (2) AFFH; then continuing in like
increments as the number of housing units increase.
(2) Notwithstanding the above, all such AFFH units, whether for purchase or
for rentj shall be marketed in accordance with the Westchester County
Fair & Affordable Housing Affirmative Marketing Plan in place at the time.

£,

Waivers for Creation Of Additional Fair and Affordable Housing
(1) If a site plan or subdivision applicant wishes to voluntarily provide more AFFH
units than are required by Section "B" above, the Village Board shall have the
authority, but not the obligation, to waive such zoning and other land use
regulations as it deems appropriate to allow additional dwelling unit(s) to be
cpnstructed, beyond the number which would otherwise be permitted under

/

the Village's Zoning Code arid other land use regulations if all of their
requirements were adhered to. In order to qualify to be considered for this
waiver, an'applicant must demonstrate that, without the waiver, the inclusion
of the additional AFFH unit(s) would impose a financial burden that would
prevent the applicant from realizing a reasonable economic return on its
development.

£L Maximum Rent and Sales Price
(1) The maximum monthly rent for an AFFH unit and the maximum gross sales
• price for an AFFH unit shall be established in accordance with U.S.
- Department of Housing and Urban Development guidelines as published in
•
the current edition of the "Westchester County Area Median Income (AMI)
Sales & Rent Limits" available from the County of Westchester.
£.

Time Period of Affordabilitv
(1) Units designated as AFFH units must remain affordable for a minimum of
50 years from date of initial certificate of occupancy for rental properties
and from date of original sale for ownership units.

L

Property Restriction
(1) A prpperty containing any AFFH units must be restricted using a mechanism
such as a declaration of restrictive covenants in recordable form acceptable
to Municipal Counsel which shall ensure that the AFFH unit shall remain
. subject to regulations for the minimum 50-year period of affordability.
Among other provisionis, the covenants shall require that the unit be the
primary residence of the resident household selected to occupy the unit.
Upon approval, such declaration shall be recorded against the property
containing the AFFH unit prior .to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy
fpr the development.

Unit Appearance and Integration
(1) Within single-family developments, the AFFH units may be single-family
homes or, if the Planning Board so elects, they may be incorporated into one
or more two-family homes. If the Planning Board so elects, one or more
AFFH unit(s) may be located on a lot meeting seventy-five per cent (75%) of
the minimum lot area for the single-family homes in the development Each
such two-family home shall.be located on a lot meeting the minimum lot area
for the single-family homes in the development All such units shall be.
. .
indistinguishable in appearance, siting and exterior design from the other
single-family homes in the development, to the furthest extent possible.
Interior finishes and furnishings may be reduced in quality and cost to assist
ip the lowei^ing bf the cost of development of the AFFH units.
(2) Within multi-family developments, the AFFH units shall be physically
integrated into the design of the developrnent and, where multiple AFFH units
are required, to the extent feasit)Ie, they shall be distributed among various sizes
(efficiency, one-, two-, three- and four-bedroom units) in the same proportion as

t.'

all othei" units in the development. The AFFH units shall not be distinguishable
from other market rate units from the outside or building exteriors. Interior
finishes and furnishings may be reduced in quality and.cost to assist in the
lowering of the cost of development of the AFFH units.
IL

Minimum Floor Ar^a
(1) The minimum gross floor area per AFFH unit shall not be less than 80% of
the average floor area of non-restricted housing units in the development
and no less than the following:
Dwelling Unit
Efficiency
1 Bedroom
2 Bedroom
3 Bedroom
4 Bedroom

Minimum Gross Floor Area f square feetl
450
675
750
1,000 (including at least 1.5 baths)
1,200 (including at least 1.5 baths)

For the purposes of this section, paved terraces or balconies may be
^ counted toward the minimum gross floor area requirement in an amount
. riot to exceed 1/3 of the square footage of such terraces or balconies.
(2) As an alternative or supplemental standard if the Planning Board so elects - the ininimum gross floor area per AFFH unit shallbe in accordance with
the standards set forth by the New York State Division of Housing and ,
Community Renewal & the New York State Housing Trust Fund
Corporation in Section 4.03.03 of the most recent edition of its joint Design
Manual See:
http://nysdhcr.gov/Publications/DesignHandbook/UF2009 DesignHandb
ookpdf or its successor.
L

Occupancy standards
(1) For the sale or rental of AFFH units, the following occupancy schedule
shall apply:'
Niimber of Bedrooms
. Efficiency
. . 1 Bedroom .
2 Bedroom ., ,
3 Bedroom
4 Bedroorii •

I

Number of Persons
Minimum: 1, Maximum: 1
Minimum: 1, Maximum: 3 .
Minimum: 2, Maximum: 5
Miriimum: 3, Maximum: 7
Miriimum: 4, Maximum: 9

Affirmative Marketing
(1) The AFFH'uriits created under the provisioris df this law shall be sold or
rented, and resold and re-rented during the required period of
affordability, to only qualifying incpme-eligible households. Such
, iricome-eligible households shall be solicited in'accordance with the
requirements, policies and protocols established in the Westchester

County Fair & Affordable Housing Affirmative Marketing Plan then in
effect.
'
Kl

Resale Requirements
] (1) In the case of owner-occupied AFFH units, the title to said property shall be
restriicted so that in the event of any resale by the home buyer or any
succesisor, the resale price shall not exceed the then-maximum sales price
for said unit, as determined in this law, or the sum of (i) the net purchase
price (i.e. gross sales prices minus subsidies) paid forthe unit by the selling
owner, increased by the percentage increase, if any, in the Consumer Price
Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers in the New YorkNorthern New Jersey Area, as published by the United States Bureau of
Labor Statistics (the "Index") on any date between (a) the month that was
two months earlier than the date on which the seller acquired the unit and
(b) the month thatis two months earlier than the month in which the seller
contracts to sell the unit If the Bureau stops publishing this index, and fails
to designate a successor iridex, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson will
designate a substitute index; and (ii) the cost of major capital
improvements made by the seller of the unit while said seller of the unit
owned the unit as evidenced by paid receipts depreciated on a straight line
basis over a.15 year period from the date of completion and such approval
shall be requested for said major capital improvements no later than the
time the seller of the unit desires to include it in the resale price.
(2) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the resale price
exceed an amount affordable to a household at 80% of AMI at the
time of the re-sale;

L

Lease Renewal Requiremerits
(1) Applicants for rental AFFH units shall, if eligible and if selected for
occupancy, sign leases for a term of no more than twp years. As long as a
resident remains eligible and has complied with the terms of the lease,
said resident shall be offered renewal leases for a term of nb more than
two years each. Renewal of a lease shall be subject to the conditions of
federal. State or county provisions that may be imposed by the terms of
the original development funding agreeriients for the development or to
the provisions of other applicable local law.
(2) If np such provisions are applicable and if a resident's annual gross
_ income should subsequently exceed the maximum then allowable, as
def;ined in this chapter, then said resident may complete their current
lease term and shall be offered a non-restricted rental unit available in
the development at the termination of such lease term, if available. If
no such dwelling unit shall be available at said time, the resident may
. ; be allowed to sign one additional one-year lease for the AFFH unit
they occupy but shall not be offered a renewal ofthe lease beyond the
expiration of said term.

Ml Administrative and Monitoring Agency
. (1) The County of Westchester shall be responsible for monitoring the AFFH
' units during the units'periods of affordability and for monitoring
compliance with theaffirmative marketing responsibilities of those
creating the AFFH units
£L

Expedited Project Review Process
(1) Pre-abolication meeting: The Planning Board's pre-application meeting
process shall be followed in connection with developments which include
AFFH units. The purposes of the pre-application riieeting will include
discussion of means to expedite the development application review
process through:
(a) The early identification of issues, concerns, code compliance and
coordination matters that may arise during the review and approval
process.
(b) The establishment of a comprehensive review process outline,
proposed meeting schedule, and conceptual timeline.
r21 Meeting schedule and timeline: Village departments, boards.
coriiniissions, committees and staff shall endeavor to honor the proposed
meeting schedule and'cbnceptuartimeline established as an outcome of the
pre-application process to the greatest extent possible during the review
and approval process, subjectto the demonstrated cooperation of applicant
to adhere to same. Should the approval process extend beyond one year,
an applicant for a development including AFFH units shall be entitled to at
least one additional meeting per year with the same departments, boards,
commissioris, or committees to review any and all items discussed at
previous pre-application meetings.
(3) Calendar/agenda priority: Municipal departments, boards, commissions,
or committees with review or approval authority over applications for
developments which include AFFH units shall give priority to such
applications by placing applications for developments including AFFH units
,
high enough on all meeting and work session calendars and agendas so they
will not be bumped to a subsequent meeting, because of lack of time and,
when feasible based on the ability to conduct required reviews and public
riotice, with the intent of shortening minimum advance submission
deadlines to the extent practicable.

Section 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of
this Local Law is, for any reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency,
commission, legislative body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall
be deemed a separate distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force
and effect
' ' . , .

Section 3. This law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of
State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. "^'"^
the fCQuntyWCityWTownyVillage^ of proton-on-Hudson
j
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

_^
•

on November 5
•, r

•
.

20I8

of 2 0 l ^
of
was duly passed by the

in accordance with the applicable

.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify thatthe local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of :
.
'
was duly passed by the
.
'.
" "
•
on
; "
.' 20
_ , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name qf Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

• :

•

'

and was deemed duly adopted

(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
on

^

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Finial adoption by referenduni.)
r^hereby certify-that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (Gouhty)(Cityj(Towh)(Village) of
' ' ••' - • '.'
(Name of Legislative Body)

;
•

•

'
.

of 2 0 _

- .
'

, -

. . on

.• -.' 20

(repassed after disapproval) by the
• •
' : •' "
•'^
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*),

.

of

V^^^ '^'J'y Passed by the

, and was (approved)(not approved)

--

nn

20

.

Such Ipca! law was subrnitted to,the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote pf a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (generat)(special)(annual) election held on
'
20

4.

;_, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valjd petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No:
the (County)(Gity)(Town)(Village) of

•

- - .

'
• '
•
'
•
•
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
• •
^
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

of 20

.. •
-•

-'
20

'•

was duly passed by the

, and was (approved)(not approved)
^^on

20

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendurn was filed as of
20

of

. Such local
IJ

.

,

. • .in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes, the chief executive officer of .a county elected on a county-v\/ide Ipasis or, if there
' be none, thechairpei"son of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervise!" ofa town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws.or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f-l (Rev, 06/12)

•

;

Page 3 of 4

5. (City Ipcal law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
.
of 20
of .
• the Gity of'.—' ' ' ;'—
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of sectioh (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general),election held on
20
, became operative.

/•...'• • .

.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
'
of 20.;
of
the GoUnty of
,
_.State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
— 20
pursuiant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote ofa majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe cities of said cpunty as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I haye compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
nty legislative body. City,
or Village
Clerk
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and wasJnattyaODpteeLin
the Town
manner
indicated
in or
by
local
legislative
body
"^PHJUC.
fl-t
b i Sc<.A-T£>
.•Jparagraph,
above.
-'-ri-Jj.J. A... ..0!
Date:

(SeaD^a'.

j
...X-^/yi.)/.
y v,-'/

^--tv^fX'X''

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev: 06/12)

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE Gallelli, seconded by TRUSTEE Attias, the
following resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of
the Village of Crotbn-on-Hudson, New York with a vote of 5-0.
WHEREAS,.the Village would like to amend Chapter 230 of the Village
Code, Zoning, to adopt regulations for affordable housing; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2018 has been drafted to
amend Chapter 230 of the Village Code, Zoning; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on November 5, 2018;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of
Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2018 amending
Chapter 230 ofthe Village Code, Zoning, which upon adoption becomes
LocalLaw9of:2018;
Dated: November 5, 2018.
State (3f New York '
)
.• • ; , ss:
Gounty of Westchester
)

•

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of theVillage of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State .of New York, db hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of
an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board
of Trustees of said Village held on November 5, 2018.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
the said Village this.6th day of November 20)18.

(Seai):x AA,'''

• ^

I ^-

x^^x /X I

' -•'->"-•- ..x.y^''

m.fyy • -

Village ol ^

( Croton-oit-Hudson New York

Board of Trustees
/ November 5f 2018 at 8:00 PM
1 Van W^ckSp'eet
,

Click Here If you would like to submit a question to the Village.
Rules of Procedures for Meetings

1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Present/Absent Mayor Pugh ;
Trustee Attias
Trustee Gallelli Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh Attorrieys StaudtA/Vhitehead
Manager King
Treasurer Bullock ;
Pledge of Allegiance
2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS:

Vouchers 2018-2019
Genera! Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund ,
,
Capital Acct
Trust & Agency
Warrant
3.

PRESENTAPONS/OTHER:

Consider adoption of a resolution to rename the 2nd Floor Meeting.Room of the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building in memory of Village Trustee Georgianna Grant.
4.

PUBLIC HEARING:

'

—^

a.

Public Hearing to consider the arriended special use perrnit application of Hudson Nation^ir&olf Club, 40
Arrowcrest Drive.

b.

Public Hearing to consider adoption of Local Law introductory No. 9 of 2018 to amend the Zoning Coi^e
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to regulate affordable housing.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a.'.; • Eniail from Karina Tarnawsl<y, Teatown Events IVIanager, regarding Hudson River EagleFest 2019.
b:'.?

Letter from Leslie Snyder, attorney for Verizon Wireless, regarding the proposed installation of a

'I.

wireless facility at 2143 Albany Post Road in the Town of Cortlandt.
6.

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL:

7.

Public Comment -Agenda Items

8.

PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
a.

Consider adoption of a resolution denouncing anti-Semitism, anti-Muslim bigotry, xenophobia and all
manifestations of racial, ethnic, religious and political bigotry.

b.

Consider establishing a Village Diversity and Inclusion Committee and appointing individuals to serve
for a term to expire in December 2019.
Consider scheduling.a pijbiic hearing for Monday, November 19 at 8 p.m. in the meeting room o f t h e
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider adoption of Local l^w Introductory 11 of 2018 to
amend the Tree l^w of the Village Code to address the removal of dangerous trees and tree limbs.

c.

d.

Acknowledge receipt o f t h e special permit application from New York SMA Umited Partnership d/b/a
Verizon Wireless for the proposed co-location of ia personaiwireless services facility at the Municipal
Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, refer such application to the Village Planning Board as required by law and
consider scheduling a public hearing for Monday, December 3, at:8 p.m. in the meeting room o f t h e
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider issuance of the special permit.

e.

Consider authorizing the Village Manager tp enter into an agreerhent with the State of New York
to maintain, repair and energize the highway lighting s ^ t e m underneath the U.S. Route 9 bridge on
Croton Point Avenue.

f.

Consider authorizing tlie Viilage Manager to sign the proposal from Chazen Companies to design a new
chlorlnation system for the North Highland Booster Pump Station in the amount of $29,900.

g.

Consider authorizing the Village Manager to sign the proposal submitted by BFJ Planning for consulting
planning services ifor zisning updates to the North Riverside corridor in the amount of $65,000.

h.

Consider authorizing the Village Manager to sign thie proposal from Woodard & Curran to integrate the
Nordica Drive Sewage Pump Station into the SCADASystem at a cost of $18,000.

i. ,

Consider authorizing the Village Manager to sign an agreement with the SPCA of Westchester, Inc., to
providie services'to the Village for seizeid and sti'ay'dogs and cats for the period beginning January 1,
2019, continuing through June 30, 2019, at ia cost of $3,368.70.

j.

Consider authorizing the Village Manager to enter into a contract with Errico Contracting for snow
j-emovai services for the 2018-19 winter season..

k.

Consider authorizing the Village Treasurer to make an interfuhd transfer in the Gisneral Fund in the
amount of $28,520 for the purposes of covering training and turnout gear costs for the Fire Department.

I.

Consider authorizing the Village Treasurer to write off three account receivables in the amount of
$7,481.91 as uncollectible.

9.

Public Comment- Non Agenda Items

10.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:

11.

. a.

Approvial of Minutes - October 15 Executive Session

b.

Approval of Minutes-October 15 Regular Meeting

REPORTS:


