---
title: "LL 9-2025: A LOCAL LAW TO CREATE CHAPTER 80, BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS, AND AMEND CHAPTER 219, "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-06-25
chapters: Ch 80, Ch 219
status: current
---

LL 9-2025
Filed: 2025-06-25
Amends: Ch 80, Ch 219
A LOCAL LAW TO CREATE CHAPTER 80, BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS, AND AMEND CHAPTER 219, UNLICENSED MOTOR DRIVEN VEHICLES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ALLOW FOR THE OPERATION OF BICYCLES WITH ELECTRIC ASSIST AND ELECTRIC SCOOTERS

---
title: "Local Law 9-2025: A LOCAL LAW TO CREATE CHAPTER 80, BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS, AND AMEND CHAPTER 219, "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-06-25
---

Local Law 9-2025
Filed: 2025-06-25
A LOCAL LAW TO CREATE CHAPTER 80, BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS, AND AMEND CHAPTER 219, UNLICENSED MOTOR DRIVEN VEHICLES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ALLOW FOR THE OPERATION OF BICYCLES WITH ELECTRIC ASSIST AND ELECTRIC SCOOTERS

New York State

NEW
YORK
STATE

Department of State
r

DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS.

Corporations, State Records & UCC

STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM C O M M E R C I A L CODE
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
Of the year 20 25
Local Law Title: ^ , ^ ^ ^ ^ , AW TO CRFATF CHAPTFR 80 RinYHI Ffi AND SnoOTFR.Q AND AMFNH
CHAPTER 219, UNLICENSED MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLES, OF THE CODE OF THE
VII I A f i F OF CROTON-nN-HUnRON TO Al I DW FOR THF DPFRATIOM OF
BICYCLES WITH ELECTRIC ASSIST AND ELECTRIC SCOOTERS

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees

^^^^^

(Name of Legislative Body)

• County
(Select one)

•

City

•

Town

0

Village

of C r o t o n - o n - H u d s o n

as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

F o r Office U s e O n l y

FILED
STATE RECORDS
JUN 2 5 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Department of State Local Law Index Number:

1

of the year 20

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)
DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 1 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 9 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO CREATE CHAPTER 80, BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS, AND AMEND
CHAPTER 219, UNLICENSED MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLES, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO ALLOW FOR THE OPERATION OF
B I C Y C L E S WITH E L E C T R I C ASSIST AND E L E C T R I C SCOOTERS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 80, Bicycles and Scooters, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is
hereby created to read as follows:
§ 80-1. Purpose; intent
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson finds that it is in the public interest for
the Village to adopt a local law regulating the use of bicycles, bicycles with electric assist and
electric scooters within the Village. This chapter is to be supplemental to the provisions of the New
York State Vehicle and Traffic Law and Village of Croton-on-Hudson Code Chapter 215, Vehicles
and Traffic, and not in conflict therewith.
§80-2. Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
BICYCLE — Every two- or three-wheeled device upon which a person or persons may ride,
propelled by human power through a belt, chain or gears, with such wheels in a tandem or tricycle,
except that it shcill not include such a device having solid tires and intended for use only on a
sidewalk by preteenage children.
BICYCLE WITH ELECTRIC ASSIST — A bicycle which is no more than 36 inches wide
and has an electric motor of less than 750 watts, equipped with operable pedals, meeting the
equipment and manufacturing requirements for bicycles adopted by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission under 16 CFR 1512.1 et seq., and meeting the requirements of one of the following
three classes:
A.

B.

C.

CLASS ONE BICYCLE WITH ELECTRIC ASSIST — A bicycle with electric assist
having an electric motor that provides assistance only when the person operating such
bicycle is pedaling, and that ceases to provide assistance when such bicycle reaches a
speed of 20 miles per hour.
CLASS TWO BICYCLE WITH ELECTRIC ASSIST — A bicycle with electric assist
having an electric motor that may be used exclusively to propel such bicycle, and that is
not capable of providing such assistance when such vehicle reaches a speed of 20 miles
per hour.
CLASS THREE BICYCLE WITH ELECTRIC ASSIST — Solely within a city having
a population of 1,000,000 or more, a bicycle with electric assist having an electric motor
that may be used exclusively to propel such bicycle, and that is not capable of providing

assistance when such bicycle reaches a speed of 25 miles per hour.
ELECTRIC SCOOTER — Every device weighing less than 100 pounds that:
A. Has handlebars, a floorboard or a seat that can be stood or sat upon by the operator,
and an electric motor;
B. Can be powered by the electric motor and/or human power; and
C. Has a maximum speed of no more than 20 miles per hour on a paved level
surface when powered solely by the electric motor.
PEDAL ASSIST — A bicycle with electric assist that has a battery-electric motor that provides
assistance to the rider only when the rider is pedaling.
SHARED BICYCLE or SHARED BICYCLE WITH ELECTRIC ASSIST SYSTEM — A network of
self-service and publicly available bicycles or bicycles with electric assist in which a bicycle or
bicycle with electric assist trip begins and/or ends on any public highway.
THROTTLE ASSIST — A bicycle with electric assist that has a battery-electric motor that can be
engaged by a throttle on the handlebars without the rider pedaling. Should the State of New York
adopt changes to the above definitions as set forth in the Vehicle and Traffic Law of New York
State ("Vehicle and Traffic Law") §§ 102, 102-C, 114-E and 1243(1), the definitions herein shall
be deemed to be simultaneously amended.
§ 80-3. Rights and duties of operators.
Except as provided otherwise in the Vehicle and Traffic Law or this chapter, a bicycle with electric
assist or the operator of a bicycle with electric assist shall be afforded all the rights and privileges
and be subject to all of the requirements for a bicycle or the operator of a bicycle pursuant to
Vehicle and Traffic Law Article 34 (Operation of Bicycles and Play Devices).
§ 80-4. Tampering or modification of bicycle with electric assist prohibited.
A.

B.

A person shall not tamper with or modify a bicycle with electric assist so as to change the
motor- powered speed capability or motor engagement (between pedal and throttle-assist
types of engagement) of a bicycle with electric assist. A person shall not tamper with or modify
a bicycle with electric assist in a manner that allows the motor in a Class One or Class Two
bicycle with electric assist to provide assistance above the speed of 20 miles per hour i f the
bicycle with electric assist is being propelled exclusively by the motor.
A device shall no longer be considered a bicycle with electric assist i f the motor is modified
such that the motor is capable of propelling the device at a speed that exceeds 20 miles per
hour for Class One and Class Two devices if the bicycle with electric assist is being propelled
exclusively by the motor.

§ 80-5. Motor disengagement.
A Class One bicycle with electric assist shall operate in a maimer such that the motor is disengaged
through a mechanism that, when the rider stops pedaling, the electric motor will disengage or cease
to function. A Class Two bicycle with electric assist shall operate in a manner so that the electric
motor is disengaged or ceases to function when the brakes are applied.
§ 80-6, Areas of operation for Class One and Class Two bicycles with electric assist.

A.

B.

C.

No person shall operate a Class One or Class Two bicycle with electric assist upon any of the
streets or parts thereof in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as listed in Schedule I^ and made
a part of this chapter. Adequate signage shall be visibly posted outside the boundaries of such
prohibited areas.
Upon written request to the Village Manager, the Board of Trustees may designate appropriate
Village-owned public lands and properties under its jurisdiction for use by bicycles with
electric assist. The Board of Trustees may impose restrictions and conditions for the
regulation and safe operation of bicycles with electric assist, including specific trails where
operation is restricted or prohibited and hours of operation as listed in Schedule IP and made
a part of this chapter.
Parking on sidewalks.
(1) Bicycles with electric assist may be parked on sidewalks over which the Village has
jurisdiction in the following circumstances:
(a) Where the bicycle with electric assist is owned by a natural person where the
owner is engaged in personal use;
(b) Where the bicycle with electric assist is used to transport property in commerce
and the operator is actually engaged commercially in the loading or unloading of
property; and
(c) To comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.-*
(2) Bicycles with electric assist which are authorized by this section to park on the sidewalk
may so park, whether the bicycle with electric assist is attended or unattended. For
Subsection C(l)(a) and (b), the Village shall provide a method by which the bicycle with
electric assist can be identified as owned by a natural person or is used to transport
property in commerce.

§ 80-7. Shared bicycles and shared bicycles with electric assist system.
A.

B.

The Board of Trustees authorizes the operation of a shared bicycle with electric assist system
vAthin the Village of Croton-on-Hudson. The Village Manager shall promulgate rules and
regulations for the operation of the assist system.
Collected data and information.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, all trip data, personal
information, images, videos, and all recorded images collected by any shared bicycle
with electric assist system which is authorized to operate in the Village of Croton-onHudson:
(a) Shall be for the exclusive use of the shared bicycle with electric assist system and
shall not be sold, distributed, or otherwise made available for any commercial
purpose; and
(b) Shall not be disclosed or otherwise made accessible, except:
[1] To the person who is the subject of such data, information or record; or
[21 If necessary to comply with a lawful court order, judicial warrant signed by a
judge appointed pursuant to Article III of the United States Constitution, or a
subpoena for individual data, information or records properly issued pursuant
to the Criminal Procedure Law or the Civil Practice Law and Rules.
(2) Nothing contained in this subsection shall be deemed to preclude the exchange of such
data, information or recorded images solely for the purpose of administering such
authorized shared system. "Personal information" shall mean information that identifies
an individual, including but not limited to name, address, telephone number, and the type

and form of payment, including credit card number, debit card number, or other payment
method.
§ 80-8. Penalties for offenses.
To the extent that violations of this article are not precluded by Vehicle and Traffic Law Article
34 (Operation of Bicycles and Play Devices), violations of any of the provisions of this article
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as provided for in § 1 -12 of the Village Code.

§ 80-9. Rights and duties of electric scooter operators.
Every person operating an electric scooter upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle and the rider of a bicycle as
set forth in the Vehicle and Traffic Law, except as to those special regulations detailed in Vehicle
and Traffic Law Article 34-D and except as to those provisions which by their nature have no
application. No person shall operate an electric scooter unless such operation complies with the
provisions of the Vehicle and Traffic Law and any local law and regulations adopted by the Board
of Trustees.
§ 80-10. Areas of operation for electric scooters.
A. No person shall operate an electric scooter upon any of the streets or parts thereof in the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as described in Schedule III and made a part of this chapter.
Adequate signage shall be visibly posted outside the boundaries of such prohibited areas.
B. Upon vvritten request to the Village Manager, the Board of Trustees may designate appropriate
Village-owned public lands and properties under its jurisdiction for use by electric scooters.
The Board of Trustees may impose restrictions and conditions for the regulation and safe
operation of electric scooters, including specific trails where operation is restricted or
prohibited and hours of operation as described in Schedule IV and made apart of this chapter.
C. Electric scooters may be parked on sidewalks over which the Village has jurisdiction in the
following circumstances:
(1) The electric scooter is owned by a natural person where the owner is engaged in personal
use, provided that the electric scooter is not parked in a maimer that interferes with the
free passage of pedestrians on a sidewalk. The Board of Trustees shall provide a method
by which an electric scooter owned by a natural person may be so identified; and
(2) In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
§ 80-11. Regulations for operation of electric scooters.
A.

No electric scooter shall be used to carry more than one person at a time. No person operating
an electric scooter shall carry any person as a passenger in a pack fastened to the operator or
fastened to the electric scooter.
B. No person operating an electric scooter shall cany any package, bundle or article which
prevents the operator from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars or which obstructs
the operator's vision in any direction.
C. The operator of an electric scooter shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
D. No person less than 16 years of age shall operate or ride as a passenger on an electric scooter,
and no person 16 years of age or older shall allow any person less than 16 years of age to

operate or ride as a passenger on an electric scooter. A police officer shall issue a summons
for a violation of this section by a person less than 16 years of age to the parent or guardian
of such person if the violation occurs in the presence of such person's parent or guardian and
where such parent or guardian is 18 years of age or more. Such summons shall only be issued
to such parent or guardian and shall not be issued to the person less than 16 years of age.
E. No person shall operate an electric scooter at a speed that is greater than is reasonable and
prudent under existing conditions and in no event in excess of 15 miles per hour.
F. No electric scooter may be operated on a sidewalk except as provided in § 83-10.
G. No operator of an electric scooter shall attach the scooter or operator to any vehicle being
operated on a roadway. No vehicle operator shall knowingly permit any person to attach any
electric scooter or the operator of the electric scooter to the operator's vehicle.
§ 80-12. Riding electric scooters on roadways, shoulders and lanes reserved for
nonmotorized vehicles and devices.
A.

B.

C.

Upon all roadways, any electric scooter shall be operated either on a usable bicycle or in-line
skate lane or, i f a usable bicycle or in-line skate lane has not been provided, near the righthand curb or edge of the roadway or upon a usable right-hand shoulder in such a manner as
to prevent undue interference with the flow of traffic, except when preparing for a left turn or
when reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that would make it unsafe to continue along
near the right-hand curb or edge. Conditions to be taken into consideration include, but are
not limited to, fixed or moving objects, vehicles, bicycles, in-line skates, pedestrians, animals,
surface hazards or traffic lanes too narrow for a person operating an electric scooter and a
vehicle to travel safely side-by-side within the lane.
Persons operating electric scooters upon a roadway shall ride single file. Persons operating
electric scooters upon a shoulder, bicycle or in-line skate lane, or bicycle or in-line skate path
intended for use of bicycles, in-line skates or electric scooters may ride two or more abreast
if sufficient space is available, except when passing a vehicle, bicycle, electric personal
assistive mobility device, person on in-line skates or pedestrian standing or proceeding along
such shoulder, lane or path, persons operating electric scooters shall operate such scooters
single file.
Any person who is operating an electric scooter who is entering a roadway from a private
road, driveway, alley or over a curb shall come to a full stop before entering the roadway.

§ 8-13. Required equipment.
A.

Every electric scooter when in use during the period from 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour
before sunrise shall be equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible
during hours of darkness from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a red light
visible to the rear for 300 feet. At least one such light shall be visible for 200 feet from each
side.
B. No person shall operate an electric scooter unless such scooter is equipped with a bell or other
device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100 feet, except that an
electric scooter shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon an electric scooter
any siren or whistle.
C. Every electric scooter shall be equipped with a brake that enables the operator to bring the
electric scooter to a controlled stop.

§ 80-14. Protective headgear required.

No person 16 or 17 years of age shall ride upon, propel or otherwise operate an electric scooter
unless such person is wearing a helmet meeting the standards established by the Commissioner of
the Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to Vehicle and Traffic Law § 1238(2-a). Wearing a
helmet means having a properly fitting helmet fixed securely on the head of such wearer with the
helmet straps securely fastened.
§ 80-15. Reporting incidents involving physical injury.
Any person 18 years of age or older operating an electric scooter who knowing or having cause
to know that physical injury, as defined in Subdivision 9 of § 10.00 of the Penal Law, has been
caused to another person due to the operation of the electric scooter by such operator shall, before
leaving the place where the physical injury occurred, stop and provide his or her name and
residence, including street and street number, to the injured party, if practical, and also to a police
officer, or in the event that no police officer is in the vicinity of the place of said injury, then such
person shall report such incident as soon as physically able to the nearest police station or judicial
officer.
§ 80-16, Penalties for offenses.
To the extent violations of this article are not precluded by Vehicle and Traffic Law Article 34-D
(Operation of Electric Scooters), violations of any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as provided for in §1-12 of the Village Code.
Section Two. Section 219-2, Definitions, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended as follows:
UNLICENSED MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLE — Any type of unlicensed motor-driven vehicle or
conveyance, including but not necessarily limited to class three bicycles with electric assist,
snowmobiles, two-wheeled motor vehicles known as "trail bikes" and "motor scooters" and fourwheeled motor vehicles commonly known as "go-earts" or "all-terrain vehicles," but not including
class one or class two bicycles with electric assist or electric scooters as defined in § 80-2, mopeds
or any vehicle used for agricultural landscaping or lawn maintenance purposes.
Section Three. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Four. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicaMe.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number ^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

Croton-on-Hudson

Village Board of T r u s t e e s

of

duly passed by the
June 11

^^25
20

on

=„
in accordance

(Name of Legislative Body)

with the applicable provisions of law.
2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County){City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer')

on

20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

^of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Ctiief Executive Officer")

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)

(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Ct\ief Executive Officer*)

20
requesting such referendum was filed as of

. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
20

in accordance with the

applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-w/ide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f (Rev. 02/25)

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
the City o f _

of 20

of

having submitted to referendum pursuant to

the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20

became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number
the County of

of 20

of

State of New York, having been submitted to

the electors at the General Election of November

20

pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of

section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affimiative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file In this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph
_

above.
^-

Pauline DiSanto
Clerk of the county IgglsTative bod^ pty 3^own or Village Clerk or
officer designated^ local legislativelJOay

(Seal)

'?

J"^^ 12,2025
(Date)

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 3 of 3

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
Resolution #129-2025
WHEREAS, the Village would like to add Chapter 80, Bicycles and Scooters, and amend Chapter 219,
Unlicensed Motor-Driven Vehicles, of the Village Code to allow for the operation of bicycles with electric
assist and electric scooters; and
WHEREAS, the Village has been partnering with neighboring communities to launch Project MOVER, an
e-bikeshare program designed to enhance mobility and provide environmentally friendly transportation
alternatives, this year; and
WHEREAS, the New York State Vehicle & Traffic Law requires municipalities to adopt such a law before a
system such as Project MOVER can operate; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2025, which
has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has determined that the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2025 to
be a Type II action under the State Environmental Quality Review Act, requiring no environmental review;
and
WHERAS, a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2025 was opened and closed on June 11,
2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 7 of 2025 to add Chapter 80, Bicycles and Scooters, and amend Chapter 219, Unlicensed
Motor-Driven Vehicles, of the Village Code to allow for the operation of bicycles with electric assist and
electric scooters, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 9 of 2025.

Dated: June 11, 2025

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I , Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New
York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been
duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 11"" of June 2025.
IN WITNESS WliEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village
this 12*


