---
title: "LL 9-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-10-25
chapters: 
status: current
---

LL 9-1999
Filed: 1999-10-25
Amends: 


---
title: "Local Law 9-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-10-25
---

Local Law 9-1999
Filed: 1999-10-25


NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Lox:al Law Filing

(Use this form tofliea local law with the Secretary of Sta^V-^'--^:-^
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminajjE^^n^lisjJK^C^
italics or underlinine
derlining to indicate new matter.
^:/;[- p j ^^^f^Sf^^
CkHmty
0%

B5 ,9^

Croton on Hudson

Village
LocalLawNo.

?-

ofUieyearlSt.:?L

A local law llHttrtTitU)changing the zoning designations of certain
parcels of land w i t h i n the V i l l a g e of Croton on Hudson

Be It enacted by

tiie

S9^rd of Trustees
(Ntmt ofLtgi^tint

^^^^

Body)

Otnwty

of-

.?r.9.1o.D..oP...4Liison

3, f^„^^^.

VlUage

Section 1. The 1979 Village of Croton on Hudson Zoning Law is
hereby amended as follows:
By changing from Two-Family Residence RB District to
Limited Office 0-1 District Section 79, Subsection 5,
Block 5, Lot 1 as shown on the Tax Maps and Tax Assessment
Rolls of the Village.
Section 2. The Official Zoning Map of the Village of Croton on Hudson;,^ NY,
is hereby amended to reflect the foregoing changes.
Section 3. This local law shall take effect immediately upon f i l i n g
with the Secretary of State.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
(1)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(Complete the certiflcatlon In the paragraph that applies to theflllngofthls local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by iocal legislative body only.)
of 19-?.?.
I hereby certify that tfae local law aimexed hereto, desiraiated aslocal
lc law No
ofthe (C»MKlS^(Ci(5C)(:K«Wft)(Village) of .---Ci:.qtQn,.gTi..Hud§p.^
duly passed by the
.6Q.ard..p.f
JXustees
on
10/1?—
19
-?-?,
in
accordance
with
the
applicable
provisions of law.
(Ifamt of LtgisUtivt Body)

2s (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Offlcer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
ofthe (County )(City)(Tbwn)(ViIIage) of
was duiy passed by the
on
19 - - , and was (approved)(not approved)(rcpassed after
(Ifamt ofLtgitlativt

Body)

disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted on

19—,

(EUetivt Chief Extcutivt Offietr*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)CIbwn)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19-—, and was (approved)(not approvedXrepassed after
(HoMit ofLtgi^tivt

Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

19-—. Such local law was submitted

(Elective CkUf Exteutivt OffUtr*)

to the people byreasonof a (mandatory)(permissive)referendum,andreceivedthe affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19i— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum andflnaladoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum,)
I hereby certify that the local law aimexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
ofthe (Cou nty)(City)(Tbwn)f^TOage) trf --^
—
was diUy passed by the
on
19—-, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
WMM ofLtgidativt

Body)

disapproval) by the —--

on

19 — . Such local law was subject to

(EUettvt Ckitf Exteutivt OffUtr*)

permissivereferendumand no valid petitionrequestingsuchreferendumwas filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19.— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or Includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or vUlage, or
the supervisor of a town where such offlcer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (CUy locai law conceraing Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of
-having been submitted toreferendumpursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—,
became operative.

6. (County local law conceraing adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
atthe General Election of November
19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and havingreceivedthe affirmative vote of a majority of the quaUfied electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
Ifiirthercertify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original onfilein this office and tbat the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and wasfinallyadopted in the manner indicated in paragraph—-Q-OS.—, above.
^ y\
(j f A
)\
or oEGcer designated by Icwal legisUtive body

0.e:

(Certiflcation to be executed by County Attoraey, Corporation Counsel, Town Attoraey, Village Attoraey or
other authorized attoraey of locality.)
STATEOFNEWYORK

couKrYOF-JiESI£H£^I£E
1, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local
law annexed nereto.
hereto.
3cai lawjLtmexea
Signatute
Signatute

\ A

V i l l a g e Attorney
Title

Chy

,

saswn of

Croton on Hudson

Village
10/19/99
Date:
(3)


