---
title: "Local Law 1-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-02-10
---

Local Law 1-1999
Filed: 1999-02-10

Local Law Filing

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

FEB 1 0 1999

County
City
Village

Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 1 of the year 1999.

A local law to amend certain sections of Chapter 230 of the Village Code concerning
(Insert Title)

nonconforming uses and special use permits.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

of the

Village

of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1.

Section 230-53-A (1) is hereby amended to add "except that in an
RB District a nonconforming office or retail store use may be
enlarged or extended by special use permit issued by the Village Board
of Trustees." at the end of the sentence.

Section 2.

Section 230-55 is hereby amended to delete the third sentence which
reads "When a special permit has been granted and filed, the use
permitted thereby shall, subject to any terms and conditions of the
special permit be deemed a conforming use in the Zoning district in which
it is located."

Section 3.

This local law shall become effective upon filing in the office of the
Secretary of State.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(1)

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 1
of 1999
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Board of Trustees on January 19, 1999 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

-

and was deemed duly adopted on

19-—,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

on-

19-— . Such local law was submitted

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors, voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19—- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
—
was duly passed by the
on
19—-, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the-—-

on

19—. Such local law was subject to

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19.— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of
-having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19-—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner
indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Date:

(Signature of Officer designated by local legislative body) Village Clerk
or Officer designated by local legislative body

(Seal)

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature

Village Attorney
Title

City
Town

Croton on Hudson

Village
Date: 2/9/99

(3)
