---
title: "Local Law 15-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO C"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-09-18
---

Local Law 15-2025
Filed: 2025-09-18
TO AMEND CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO CLARIFY THE OPERATIOND OF THE TREE PRESERVATION FUND

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27

Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
15 of the year 2025
Local Law Title: A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO CLARIFY THE OPERATIONS OF THE
TREE PRESERVATION FUND

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees

of the

• County
• City
• Town
S Village

(Select one)

Croton-on-Hudson

as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

Department of State Local Law index Number: of the year 20

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government)

page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number 15 of 2025
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on September 10, 2025 in accordance
(Name of Legislative Body)
with the applicable provisions of law.
2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 and was
(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 and was
(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
20 .
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
, 20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of the
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 and was
(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
20 . Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
requesting such referendum was filed as of 20 in accordance with the
applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of
the City of having submitted to referendum pursuant to
the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
, 20 became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of
the County of State of New York, having been submitted to
the electors at the General Election of November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of
section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph above.

Pauline DiSanto
Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body
July 10, 2025
(Date)

page 3 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 15 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO CLARIFY THE OPERATIONS OF THE
TREE PRESERVATION FUND
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1. Section 208-24, Tree Preservation Fund, of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended as follows:
§208-24 Tree Preservation Fund.
A. The Treasurer of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby directed to establish a
special purpose fund which will be designated as the "Tree Preservation Fund." All
fees which are required pursuant to this Chapter to be paid into said fund shall be
delivered to the Village's Treasurer and deposited in the special purpose fund.
B. Purpose; The Tree Preservation Fund shall be a fund to receive in-lieu payments from
applicants to satisfy tree replacement requirements which cannot be met on site; tree
replacement requirements for violations of this Chapter; fees for tree removal permits
as required by this Chapter and forfeited securities. The funds deposited shall not
exceed $5,000 in each fiscal year; excess funds shall be deposited into the appropriate
General Fund revenue account. The funds shall be used solely as directed by the Board
of Trustees, by resolution, for planting and maintaining trees on public land in the
Village in accordance with this chapter.
Section 2. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
thereof, which other portions shall continue in full effect.
Section 3. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #211-2025
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees recently adopted
Local Law 10 of 2025 to replace Chapter 208, Trees, of the Village Code; and
WHEREAS, as part of this new legislation, a Tree Preservation Fund was established;
and
WHEREAS, the Village Board provided additional guidance at the work session held
on July 23, 2025, regarding the implementation of this fund; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2025 has been drafted to reflect these
conversations; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on September 10, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2025 to amend Chapter 208, Trees, to reflect
clarifications to the Tree Preservation Fund, which upon adoption becomes Local Law
No. 15 of 2025.
Dated: September 10, 2025
State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 10 of September, 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said Village this 18 day of September, 2025.

(Seal)
