---
title: "Local Law 1-2002: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2002-01-18
---

Local Law 1-2002
Filed: 2002-01-18

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 1 of the year 2002

A local law Making certain amendments to Section 230-35 of the Village Code with regard to off-street parking requirements in O-1, C-1 and C-2 Zoning Districts.
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1. That portion of Section 230-35 of the Croton-on-Hudson Village Code that prescribes the number of required off-street parking spaces is hereby amended to read as follows:

For All Permitted Uses In
O-1
C-1 C-2
Off-street parking spaces (whichever is greater):
Per 300 square feet of office floor area
Per employee
Per 250 square feet of retail/service floor area

1*
1*
1*

Section 2. This Local Law shall be effective upon filing in the office of the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 1 of 2002 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on 1-7, 2002, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 20--, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 20--, and was deemed duly adopted on 20--, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 20--, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 20--. Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 20----, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. - of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 20--, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 20--. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 20--, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or Includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 20--, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November 20--, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1 above.

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title
Village
Date: Croton on Hudson
