---
title: "Local Law 11-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-07-19
---

Local Law 11-2001
Filed: 2001-07-19

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County
Westchester
Village of Croton on Hudson
MISCELLANEOUS
Local Law No. 11 of the year 2001

A local law entitled "Rezoning of Jane E. Lytle Arboretum to PRE-1
District in accordance with Article XIV, Amendments and
Interpretation of Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Croton on Hudson
Village Code"

Be It enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson as follows:

SECTION I. PURPOSE AND INTENT
The purpose of the Parks, Recreation, and Education (PRE) District is intended to preserve natural resources, scenic beauty and other land and community resources whose retention is necessary for the continued maintenance of the quality of the environment. It is designated to provide for public parks; recreational activities including all types of athletic activities; schools and other educational facilities; nature preserves; bird and wildlife sanctuaries; and similar uses.
As defined in Section 230-20, The PRE-1 district zoning provisions are intended to ensure that no building or other structure, facility or premises or any part thereof shall be constructed or used which is arranged, intended or designed to be used, in whole or in part, for any uses except passive open space.
Zoning of the specified parcels in the Jane E. Lytle Arboretum as PRE-1 will enhance and protect the valuable open space qualities of this property land and fulfills a key policy recommendation of the Conservation Advisory Council and the Waterfront Advisory Council. Designating this property as PRE-1 is the best means to ensure the preservation of its natural state.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

(1)

SECTION II. ZONING AMENDMENTS
A. The zoning of the parcels having the following Village tax map designations is hereby changed to PRE-1.

1. 67.12-1-13
SECTION III. SEPARABILITY
The provisions of this local law are separable and if any provision, clause, sentence, subsection, word or part thereof is held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional or inapplicable to any person or circumstance, such illegality, invalidity, unconstitutionality, or inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, clauses, sentences, subsections, words, or parts of this local law or their application to other persons or circumstances. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that this local law would have been adopted if such illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional provision, clause, sentence, subsection, word or part had not been included therein, and If such person or circumstance, to which the local law or part thereof is held inapplicable, had been specifically exempt therefrom.
SECTION IV. EFFECTIVE DATE
This local law shall take effect immediately upon its filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No 11 of 2001 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton on Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on 7/16 2001 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the and was deemed duly adopted on 19—, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the on --- 19-— . Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 19^... , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the on 19—. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 19— , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5, (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 19—, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November 19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Judith A. Anderson
Clerk or officer designated by local legislative body

Village Clerk
Date: 7/19/01

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF Westchester
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature
David E. Yohon
Title Village Attorney
Village of Croton on Hudson
Date: 7/19/01
(3)
