```yaml
title: "Local Law 13-2024: TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON CHAPTER 230, REGARDIN"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-12-24
```

Local Law 13-2024
Filed: 2024-12-24
TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON CHAPTER 230, REGARDING THE RESERVATION OF PARKLAND

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

•County

•City

•Town

[X] Village

(select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 13 of the year 2024

A local law AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
(Insert Title) CHAPTER 230, REGARDING THE RESERVATION OF PARKLAND

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[X] Village

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 13-2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 230, REGARDING THE RESERVATION OF PARKLAND
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-73, Parks and playground sites, of the Zoning Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby repealed in its entirety and replaced with language to read as follows:
§ 230-73 Reservation of parkland.
A. Site development plans and recreation facilities. Any site plan containing residential units shall, when
required by the Planning Board, include a park or parks suitably located for playground or other
recreational purposes, in accordance with requirements of § 7-725-a, Subdivision 6, of the Village Law.
The Planning Board shall determine whether a proper case exists for requiring such land reservation. Such
determination shall include an evaluation of the present and anticipated future needs for park and
recreational facilities in the Village based on projected population growth to which the particular site plan
will contribute. If such need is found to exist, and the Planning Board determines that suitable lands do
not exist on the subject property for such reservation, the Planning Board may require the payment of a
fee in lieu of parkland in accordance with § 230-73(B) herein.
B.

Where payment of a fee in lieu of parkland is required as set forth above, the payments made pursuant to
this chapter shall be established by resolution of the Board of Trustees and set forth in the Master Fee
Schedule, as may be amended from time to time, for each of the following dwelling types: efficiency
(studio unit), one-bedroom unit, two-bedroom unit, three-bedroom unit, or single-family (detached or
attached) dwelling. Units that are Affordable Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) Units
pursuant to §230-48 shall not be included in the total number of dwelling units for calculation of such fee
and no fee will be due for such units. Payment of such fee in lieu of parkland shall be a condition of site
plan approval.

C.

This section shall not apply to property that formed part of a subdivision that was itself approved on
condition that land or money be set aside for parks, playground or other recreational purposes. If the land
included in a site plan under review is a portion of a subdivision plat that has been reviewed and approved,
the Board shall credit the applicant for any land set aside or money donated in lieu thereof under such
subdivision plat approval.

D.

All funds paid in lieu of recreation land shall constitute a trust fund to be used by the Village of Crotonon-Hudson exclusively for park, playground or recreation purposes, including the acquisition of land.

Section Two. Section 230-123, Areas for parks and playground, of the Zoning Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson is hereby repealed in its entirety and replaced with language to read as follows:
§ 230-123. Reservation of parkland.
A.

Any subdivision plat containing residential units shall, when required by the Planning Board, include a
park or parks suitably located for playground or other recreational purposes, in accordance with the
requirements of § 7-730, Subdivision 4, of the Village Law. The Planning Board shall determine
whether a proper case exists for requiring such land reservation. Such determination shall include an

evaluation of the present and anticipated future needs for park and recreational facilities in the Village
based on the projected population growth to which the particular subdivision plat will contribute. If
such need is found to exist, and the Planning Board determines that suitable lands do not exist on the
subject property for such reservation, the Planning Board may require the payment of a fee in lieu of
parkland in accordance with § 230-123(B) herein. Where possible, 10% of the total area of the
subdivision should be allotted for this purpose, except where such 10% amounts to less than 1/4 acre,
and no recreation plot shall be less than 1/4 acre in size.
B.

Where payment of a fee in lieu of parkland is required as set forth above, the payments made pursuant
to this chapter shall be established by resolution of the Board of Trustees and set forth in the Master Fee
Schedule, as may be amended from time to time. Units that are Affordable Affirmatively Furthering
Fair Housing (AFFH) Units pursuant to §230-48 shall not be included in the total number of dwelling
units for calculation of such fee and no fee will be due for such units. Payment of such fee in lieu of
parkland shall be a condition of subdivision approval and payment shall be made prior to the signing of
the subdivision plat by the Planning Board Chair.

C.

No sum of money shall be payable in lieu of park, playground or recreation land in relation to any lot
which, on September 15, 1986, is already improved with a residential building.

D.

All funds paid in lieu of recreation land shall constitute a trust fund to be used by the Village of Crotonon-Hudson exclusively for park, playground or recreation purposes, including the acquisition of land.

Section Three. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason, declare invalid,
in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and
effect.
Section Four. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York Secretary of State in
accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 13
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

on October 23

of 2024
was duly passed by the
on 2024, in accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20_
of

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
on

was duly passed by the
, and was (approved)(not approved)

20

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20.

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20_

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
.State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or Officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote.
Resolution #202-2024
WHEREAS the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson provides for the reservation of
parkland and the payment of fees in lieu thereof concerning new developments, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees wishes to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village
Code to clarify these provisions, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on July 24, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead Agency for
SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS on October 9, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and review
described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the EAF "Determination of Significance" attached hereto,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 10
of 2024, which was opened and closed on October 9, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the
LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on October 9, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP Policy standards and
conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees makes the following
findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed
Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
POLICY 19: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.
POLICY 19A : Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system,
POLICY 19B: Increase public access to areas that offer physical and visual connection to
the Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.

POLICY 23: Protect, enhance, and restore structures, districts, areas, or sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were
reviewed and found not to be applicable,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action complies with the policy standards and
conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts
the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a Negative
Declaration in connection with this action,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 10 of 2024, to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson regarding the reservation of parkland associated with new residential developments
and subdivisions and the payment of fees in lieu thereof, which upon adoption becomes Local Law
No. 13 of 2024.
Dated: October 23, 2024

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on the 23 of October 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 25 day of October 2024.

(Seal)
