```yaml
title: "Local Law 10-2022: AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON VEHICLES AND TR"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-10-24
```

Local Law 10-2022
Filed: 2022-10-24
AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON VEHICLES AND TRAFFICE, TO REVISE THE RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT SYSTEM IN CERTAIN AREAS OF THE VILLAGE

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

(Select one:)
☐ County
☐ City
☐ Town
☒ Village
of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 10 of the year 2022

AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
(Insert Title)

VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC, TO REVISE THE RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT
PERMIT SYSTEM IN CERTAIN AREAS OF THE VILLAGE.

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

of the

☐ County
☐ City
☐ Town
☒ Village
(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 10 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 215 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTONON-HUDSON, VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC, TO REVISE THE RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMIT
SYSTEM IN CERTAIN AREAS OF THE VILLAGE.
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Article X of Chapter 215 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to read as follows:
§ 215-77 Nonresident parking exception.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, vehicles without a permit issued pursuant to this article may
be parked within the residential parking permit area for a period not in excess of four hours.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason, declared
invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue
in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary of State
in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 10 of 2022 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on October 17, 2022, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on , 20 .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on , 20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on , 20 , became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the County of , State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Date: 10/24/2022

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE ROSALES, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #147-2022
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 215 of the Village Code,
Vehicles and Traffic, to revise the time limit parking within the residential permit
parking system zones from 2 hours to 4 hours between the hours of 7:00 AM to 7:00
PM on weekdays, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2022 has been drafted to reflect such
language, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 13 was opened and
closed on October 17, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2022 to revise the time limit parking within
the residential permit parking system zones from 2 hours to 4 hours between the hours
of 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM on weekdays, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No.
10 of 2022.
Dated: October 17, 2022

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on October 17, 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
of the said Village this 20th day of October 2022.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
