---
title: "Local Law 10-2024: TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON T"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-07-12
---

Local Law 10-2024
Filed: 2024-07-12
TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TO PROVIDE FOR EXEMPTIONS FOR THE COST OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY INVOLVING THE CREATION OF ACCESSORY DWELLINGS UNITS AND TO PROVIDE FOR LIVING QUARTERS F

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

FILED
of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 10
of the year 2024

A local law to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to provide
(Insert Title)

for exemptions for the cost of Capital Improvements to Residential Property involving the
creation of accessory dwellings units and to provide for living quarters for parent or
grandparent.
Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 10-2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 204, TAXATION, OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO PROVIDE FOR EXEMPTIONS FOR THE
COST OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS TO RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY INVOLVING
THE CREATION OF ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND TO PROVIDE FOR LIVING
QUARTERS FOR PARENT OR GRANDPARENT
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. There is hereby added to Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson a new Article X entitled "Exemption of Capital Improvements to Residential Property
For the Creation of Accessory Dwelling Units" to read as follows:
Article X Exemption of Capital Improvements to Residential Property For the Creation of
Accessory Dwelling Units
§ 204-49. Exemption granted.
Pursuant to § 421-p of the Real Property Tax Law and subject to all the conditions set forth therein,
residential buildings that are reconstructed, altered, improved or newly constructed in order to create
one or more additional residential dwelling units on the same parcel as a preexisting residential
building to provide independent living facilities for one or more persons shall be partially exempt
from taxation and special ad valorem levies as provided herein and in RPT §421-p. Such exemption
may only be granted for an accessory apartment permitted pursuant to §230-41 of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson Zoning Code.
§ 204-50. Limitations.
A. Such exemption shall be for a period of five years to the extent of one hundred per centum of
the increase in assessed value thereof attributable to such reconstruction, alteration,
improvement, or new construction for such additional residential unit or units, and for an
additional period of five years subject to the following:
1. The extent of such exemption shall be decreased by twenty-five per centum of the
"exemption base" for each of the first three years during such additional period and
shall be decreased by a further ten per centum of the exemption base during each of
the final two years of such additional period. The exemption shall expire at the end of
the extended period. The "exemption base" shall be the increase in assessed value as
determined in the initial year of the term of the exemption, or as otherwise set forth
in § 421-p2(a)(ii) of the Real Property Tax Law.
2. In any year in which a change in level of assessment of fifteen percent or more is
certified for a final assessment roll pursuant to the rules of the commissioner of
taxation and finance, the exemption base shall be multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which shall be the total assessed value of the parcel on such final

assessment roll (after accounting for any physical or quantity changes to the parcel
since the immediately preceding assessment roll), and the denominator of which shall
be the total assessed value of the parcel on the immediately preceding final assessment
roll. The result shall be the new exemption base. The exemption shall thereupon be
recomputed to take into account the new exemption base, notwithstanding the fact
that the assessor receives certification of the change in level of assessment after the
completion, verification and filing of the final assessment roll. In the event the
assessor does not have custody of the roll when such certification is received, the
assessor shall certify the recomputed exemption to the local officers having custody
and control of the roll, and such local officers are hereby directed and authorized to
enter the recomputed exemption certified by the assessor on the roll. The assessor
shall give written notice of such recomputed exemption to the property owner, who
may, if such property owner believes that the exemption was recomputed incorrectly,
apply for a correction in the manner provided by title three of article five of the Real
Property Tax Law for the correction of clerical errors.
3. Such exemption shall be limited to two hundred thousand dollars in increased market
value of the property attributable to such reconstruction, alteration, improvement or
new construction and any increase in market value greater than such amount shall not
be eligible for the exemption pursuant to this article. The market value of the
reconstruction, alteration, improvement or new construction shall be calculated as set
forth in § 421-p2(a)(iii) of the Real Property Tax Law.
B. No such exemption shall be granted for reconstruction, alterations, improvements or new
construction unless:
1. Such reconstruction, alteration, improvement or new construction was commenced
subsequent to the effective date of this local law; and
2. The value of such reconstruction, alteration, improvement or new construction
exceeds three thousand dollars; and
3. Such reconstruction, alteration, improvement or new construction created one or more
additional residential dwelling units on the same parcel as the preexisting building to
provide independent living facilities for one or more persons as permitted by §23041 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Zoning Code.
C. For the purposes of this article, reconstruction, alteration, improvement or new construction
shall not include ordinary maintenance or repairs.
D. If a building granted an exemption pursuant to this article ceases to be used primarily for
residential purposes, or title thereto is transferred to other than the heirs or distributees of the
owner, the exemption granted pursuant to this article shall cease.
§ 204-51. Application for exemption.
Such exemption shall be granted only upon application by the owner of such building on a form
prescribed by the Commissioner of taxation and finance. The application shall be filed with the

Assessor of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson on or before the taxable status date of January 1 to be
eligible for an exemption to be entered on the assessment roll prepared on the basis of said taxable
status date.
Section Two. There is hereby added to Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson a new Article XI entitled "Exemption for Construction of Living Quarters for Parent or
Grandparent" to read as follows:
Article XI. Exemption for Construction of Living Quarters for Parent or Grandparent
§ 204-52. Exemption granted.
Pursuant to § 469 of the Real Property Tax Law and subject to all the conditions set forth in therein,
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson does hereby provide for an exemption from taxation to the extent
of any increase in assessed value of residential property resulting from the construction or
reconstruction of such property for the purpose of providing living quarters for a parent or
grandparent, who is sixty-two years of age or older. For the purposes of this article, a parent or
grandparent shall be deemed to include the birth or adoptive parents and grandparents of the owner
of the real property or of the owner's spouse.
§204-53. Limitations.
A. The exemption set forth in § 204-53 above shall not exceed:
1. The increase in assessed value resulting from construction or reconstruction of such
property for such purpose; or
2. Twenty percent of the total assessed value of such property as improved; or
3. Twenty percent of the median sale price of residential property as reported in the most
recent sales statistical summary published by the commissioner of taxation and
finance for the county in which the property is located, whichever is less.
B. No such exemption shall be granted unless:
1. The property is within the geographical area in which such construction or
reconstruction is permitted; and
2. The residential property so constructed or reconstructed is the principal place of
residence of the owner.
C. Such exemptions shall be applicable only to construction or reconstruction which occurred
subsequent to the effective date of this article and shall only apply during taxable years during
which at least one such parent or grandparent maintains a primary place of residence in such
living quarters.
§ 204-54. Application for exemption.

Such exemption from taxation shall be granted upon an application made annually, upon a form
to be promulgated by the commissioner of taxation and finance, by the owner of such property
to the Assessor of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson on or before the taxable status date of January
1. If the Assessor is satisfied that the property is entitled to an exemption pursuant to this article,
they shall approve the application and such residential improvements shall be exempt from
taxation and special ad velorem levies as set forth herein and in RPTL §469.
§ 204-55. Penalties for false statements.
Any conviction of having made any willful false statement in the application for such exemption
shall result in the revocation thereof, be punishable by a civil penalty of not more than one
hundred dollars and shall disqualify the applicant or applicants from further exemption for a
period of five years.

Section Three. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Four. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 10 of 2024
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on June 26, 2024, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Clerk of the County legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #133-2024
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Village
Code to add tax exemptions for the construction of accessory dwelling units and living
quarters for parents/grandparents, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2024 was opened
and closed on June 26, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2024, to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, of the
Village Code to add tax exemptions for the construction of accessory dwelling units
and living quarters for parents/grandparents, which upon adoption becomes Local
Law No. 10 of 2024.

Dated: June 26, 2024

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 26th of June 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said Village this 12th day of July 2024.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
