---
title: "Local Law 12-2024: TO AMEND CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-12-24
---

Local Law 12-2024
Filed: 2024-12-24
TO AMEND CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO SEASONAL PARKING

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza. 99 Washington Avenue

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not Include matter being eliminated and do not use italics or underlining to Indicate new matter.

•County

•City

•Town

Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Local Law No. 12 of the year 2024

A local law TO AMEND CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC, OF THE CODE OF
(Insert Title)

THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO SEASONAL PARKING

Be It enacted by the Board of Trustees

•County

•City

Town

Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 12 OF 2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 215, VEHICLE & TRAFFIC, OF THE CODE OF
THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE PROVISIONS RELATED TO
SEASONAL PARKING
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 215-29, Seasonal parking, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 215-29. Seasonal parking.
A. Vehicles shall be allowed to remain standing on any street or public highway within the corporate limits of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, except when otherwise prohibited by this chapter or any other chapter of the Croton-on-Hudson Code, and except when snow accumulates to two or more inches.
B. Upon an accumulation of two or more inches of snow, no vehicle of any kind shall be allowed to remain standing on any street or public highway until the snow has ended and the road has been cleared of snow. Vehicles must be relocated to off-street locations and may be parked on the Village right-of-way area directly in front of the vehicle owner's residence, except that vehicles may not be parked on any part of a street, sidewalk, or curb. Vehicles parked in the Municipal Building parking lot, Asbury Methodist parking lot, Merwin Oak parking lot, and South Harmon parking lot must be moved within 12 hours after snow has ended.
C. Special hardship permits. In cases where there is no off-street location or right-of-way area which can be used, the Village Manager shall, upon written application, verification of the applicant's special hardship and payment of a fee charged in accordance with the fee schedule established by the Village Board of Trustees, issue an annual permit granting permission to park motor vehicles on the street or public highway except for certain streets designated by the Village Manager, upon recommendation of the Superintendent of the Department of Public Works, provided that such parking conforms to all other laws and regulations. No permit parking shall be permitted on those streets designated by the Village Manager. Hardship permit holders shall move their vehicles to an area cleared of snow no later than 12 hours after the snow stops.
D. Overnight parking. Overnight parking in certain sections of the Municipal Building parking lot is prohibited during snow events as designated by signage.
E. Fine prescribed. All vehicles in violation of this section are subject to a fine as prescribed in § 215-30(6) and towing.

Section Two. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Three. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 12 of 2024 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees on October 23, 2024, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the , and was deemed duly adopted on 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the , on 20 . Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the on 20 . Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on , 20 , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the County of , State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1 above.

Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or Officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #201-2024
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 215, Vehicles & Traffic, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update provisions related to seasonal parking, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2024, which was opened and closed on October 23, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2024, amending Chapter 215, Vehicles & Traffic, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update provisions related to seasonal parking, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 12 of 2024.
Dated: October 23, 2024

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 23 of October 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village this 25th day of October 2024.
