---
title: "Local Law 13-2025: TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-07-17
---

Local Law 13-2025
Filed: 2025-07-17
TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

New York State
Department of State
DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS,
STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany. NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Corporations, State Records & UCC

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
13

of the year 2025

Local Law Title: A LOCAL LAW TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE
CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees

• County
• City
• Town
• Village

(Select one)

of Croton-on-Hudson
(Name of Local Government)

as follows on the attached pages:

For Office Use Only
FILED
STATE RECORDS
JUL 1 7 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State Local Law Index Number:

13

of the year 2025

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)

page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number 13 of 2025 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
on July 09, 2025, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of the
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
on 20 and was
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of the
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
on 20 and was
(approved) (not approved) (re passed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
20 .

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of the
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
on 20 and was
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
20 . Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
requesting such referendum was filed as of 20 in accordance with the
applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of
the City of having submitted to referendum pursuant to
the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of
the County of of State of New York, having been submitted to
the electors at the General Election of November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of
section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph 1 above.
Pauline DiSanto
Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

July 10, 2025
(Date)

page 3 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 13 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO REPEAL AND REPLACE CHAPTER 208, TREES, OF THE CODE
OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. The Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended by repealing
Chapter 208, Trees, and replacing it as follows:
"§208-1. Purpose.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has a vital interest in the planting and preservation of
trees within its borders. The preservation of trees as defined herein within the Village is
necessary to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the Village because trees
provide shade, impede soil erosion, aid water absorption and retention, inhibit excess
runoff and flooding, enhance air quality, offer a natural barrier to noise, provide a natural
habitat for wildlife, provide screening, enhance property values and add to the aesthetic
quality of the community.
§208-2. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following term shall have the meaning indicated:
DEPARTMENT - The Superintendent of the Department of Public Works.
PRUNING - The removal or reduction of certain plant parts that are not required or are no
longer effective, in order to retain or improve the tree's health, natural habit, balance,
stature, value and contribution to the landscape design.
STREET/PUBLIC TREES — Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation
growing on land within the right-of-way on private property or growing within the limits
of a Village Park or on Village owned property.
STREET/PUBLIC TREE PLAN -An annual plan for the care, preservation, pruning,
planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and
in other public areas.
TREE SIZE
a. SMALL TREES are defined as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than
13 feet but less than 26 feet;
b. MEDIUM TREES are defined as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than
26 feet but less than 52 feet; and
c. LARGE TREES are defined as having an ultimate height equal to or greater than
52 feet.

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES

TOPPING -The indiscriminate cutting back of tree branches to stubs or lateral branches
that are not large enough to assume the terminal role, which can lead to branch dieback,
decay and unstable sprout production from the cut ends, resulting in a potentially hazardous
situation once the sprouts become large and heavy.
§ 208-3. Designation of official custodian; duties.
The Superintendent of the Department of Public Works, hereinafter also referred to as the
"Department," shall serve as the official custodian of all street and public trees and, in
consultation with the Conservation Advisory Council, shall develop and update annually
and administer a plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas.
§ 208-4. Duties and responsibilities of Department.
The duties and responsibilities of the Department shall be to:
A.

Study, investigate, develop and or update annually a plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks,
along streets and in other public areas, hereinafter referred to as the "Street/Public
Tree Plan."

B.

Administer the Street/Public Tree Plan and consult with the Conservation Advisory
Council to determine the type and kind of trees to be planted upon Village streets,
Village parks or any other public land. The Department may also consult with a
certified urban forester, arborist or tree expert as needed and approved by the Board
of Trustees.

C.

Work with the Conservation Advisory Council which will disseminate news and
information regarding the selection, planting and maintenance of trees within Village
limits, including information about the Street/Public Tree Plan.

§ 208-5. Planting, maintenance, and removal.
A. It shall be the responsibility of the Department, or its designated agents, to plant, prune,
maintain, remove and replace trees, shrubs and other vegetation within the limits of any
public street, right-of-way, park or other public place as it may deem necessary to preserve
or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the Village and its streets, parks and public spaces.
B. No person or entity, other than the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or its designated agents,
shall plant any tree, shrub or other vegetation within the limits of any public street, rightof-way, park or other public place without written approval by the Department or in
accordance with §230-126.
C. No person or entity, other than the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or its designated agents,
shall spray, fertilize, treat, prune, remove, cut, or otherwise disturb any street or public tree,
shrub or other vegetation on any public street, right-of-way, park or other public place

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES

without written approval by the Department.
D. No person or entity, other than the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or its designated agents,
shall remove a tree, shrub, or other vegetation from within the limits of any public street,
right-of way, park or other public place without written approval by the Department or in
accordance with §230-126.
§ 208-6. Spacing of trees planted.
A. To achieve ideal growing conditions, the preferred distances for the spacing of street
trees will be in accordance with the following guidelines, unless otherwise determined by
the Department in consultation with the Conservation Advisory Council or a certified urban
forester or arborist:
(1) SMALL TREES - 30 feet apart;
(2) MEDIUM TREES - 40 feet apart; and
(3) LARGE TREES -50 feet apart.
§ 208-7. Distance from curbs and sidewalks.
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in
accordance with their species Tree Size, with final determination made by the Department.
§ 208-8. Distance from street corners and hydrants.
No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the
point of the nearest intersection curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer
than ten (10) feet to any fire hydrant.
§ 208-9. Distance from utilities.
A. Small and Medium street trees shall be planted at a minimum distance of three (3) lateral
feet from an underground waterline, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
B. Large street trees shall be planted at a minimum distance of five (5) lateral feet from any
underground waterline, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
§208-10. Rights of Village.
A.

The Village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove street trees
within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, sidewalks and public
land, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or convenience or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public spaces.

B.

The Department may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason by its nature, is injurious to sewers,
electric power lines, gas lines, waterlines or other public improvements or is affected

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
§ 208-11. Tree Topping prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity, other than the Village or its designated agents,
to top any street trees or public trees. Trees severely damaged by storm or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical, may be exempted from this article at the determination of the Department.
§ 208-12. Responsibilities of property owners.
A. Every owner of any tree or shrub on private property overhanging any street or right-ofway within the Village shall prune the branches so that such branches:
(1) Shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp;
(2) Shall not obstruct the view of any street intersection or any traffic control
device; and
(3) Shall leave a clear space of eight (8) feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk.
B. Said owners shall also remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees or broken or
decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The Department
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with
the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility
of any traffic control device or sign or interferes with visibility at an intersection.
C. Every owner of any shrub, hedge, bush or other vegetation shall prune such vegetation
so that there shall be a clear space of six (6) lateral inches from any Village sidewalk.
§ 208-13. Removal of stumps.
While it is the goal of the Village to remove all stumps of street and public trees to below
the surface of the ground, the removal of stumps of street and public trees shall be
determined on an individual-case basis taking into account safety, aesthetics and the
environmental value of allowing the stump to deteriorate naturally.
§ 208-14. Removal of healthy trees prohibited.
In order to protect the Village's investment in time and resources in the street tree
program, it shall be unlawful to remove or cause the destruction of any healthy street tree
without prior approval of the Department.
§ 208-15. Consent required for deviations.
Any deviation from this article shall be unlawful without the express written consent of the
Superintendent of the Department.

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
ARTICLE II
Tree Preservation
§ 208-16. Purpose.
A.

The Board of Trustees finds that trees are necessary to protect the health, safety,
environment, ecosystems and general welfare of the inhabitants and properties in the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson. The Village recognizes that preservation of the
environment is the responsibility of the entire community. Trees provide oxygen,
impede soil erosion, aid water absorption, ameliorate against potential flooding, and
absorb CO2 and other pollutants and breathable particulate matter; provide shade,
screening, privacy, green space, aesthetic appeal and even historic value; absorb and
lessen impacts from winds and act as natural noise barriers; yield advantageous
microclimatic effects and provide other environmental benefits and generally enhance
the quality of life and values of properties within the Village. Indiscriminate removal
of trees causes deprivation of these benefits and disrupts the Village's ecological
systems.

B.

It is, therefore, the purpose of this article to regulate the quantity, quality, canopy and
distribution of trees and prevent the indiscriminate or unnecessary destruction of trees
within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in order to maximize the beneficial functions
of trees for the welfare of Village residents.

C.

It is further the intent of the Village to provide the procedures prescribed herein to
preserve and protect the health, welfare and rural character of the community as
reflected in the woodlands of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in order to meet the
Village's responsibility under the New York State Environmental Quality Review
Act, Article 8 of the Environmental Conservation Law, to serve as a steward of air,
water, land and living resources and protect the environment for the use of this and
further generations.

§208-17. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
APPLICANT — Any individual or individuals, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization or other legal entity of any kind, including a municipal corporation,
governmental agency or subdivision thereof, filing an application pursuant to this chapter.
APPROVING AUTHORITY ~ The Village Engineer or their designee or the Planning
Board as applicable, as specified in § 208-19C hereof.
CLEAR CUTTING — The removal of four or more trees from a property without the
benefit of a current and valid tree removal permit.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH) — The diameter of a tree measured at a point
4.5 feet above the ground, or at the highest measurable point of the remaining stump if less

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
than 4.5 feet, on the uphill side of the tree.
EXCESSIVE PRUNING - Removing 1/4 (25%) or greater of the functioning leaf, stem or
root area of a tree.
FALL ZONE - The area around a tree based on the topography, site conditions, wind and
other factors that influence the natural direction where the entire tree, or pieces of a tree,
would land on a property.
GIRDLING - Any activity that injures the bark of a tree trunk, typically extending around
much of the tree's circumference.
INJURY - Any act which significantly weakens the tree, or its stems, trunk or roots, which
may also include, but is not limited to, the following listed acts: excessive pruning; girdling
or partial girdling of the tree trunk; excavation; compaction of the roots and/or raising or
lowering the existing grade adjacent to the tree; or poisoning in any manner (including, but
not limited to, the addition of paint, brine, oil, gasoline, toxins, petroleum products,
concrete mix, dirty water, etc., to the ground around a tree); which list is not exclusive of
other acts which may have deleterious effects.
HAZARDOUS TREE - A tree identified as structurally defective which poses an imminent
risk to the health and safety of person, property, power lines or places where people gather,
or an increased likelihood that all, or part, of the tree will fail resulting in a risk of personal
injury, death or property damage in the fall zone.
LANDMARK TREE — A tree as defined on a list of trees which may be promulgated and
established by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which list is on
file in the office of the Village Manager.
LOT — Any parcel of land, not necessarily coincident with a lot or lots shown on a map
of record, which is occupied or which is to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, if any, or by a group of buildings having any land in common and the buildings
accessory thereto, if any, together with the required open spaces appurtenant to such
building or group of buildings.
PRUNING - The removal or reduction of certain plant parts that are not required or are no
longer effective, in order to retain or improve the tree's health, natural habit, balance,
stature, value and contribution to the landscape design.
REGULATED BUFFER ZONE — Any area of vegetative screening as established by an
approved site plan, minor site plan, special permit or subdivision plat or any area of a
residentially zoned property as measured from each perimeter property line of the property
towards the interior of such property as follows:
Width of Regulated Buffer
Zoning District
Zone (feet)
RA-40
15
RA-25
RA-9
RA-5

10
5
3

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
RB (One-Family Residence)

3

RB (Two-Family Residence)
RC (One-Family Residence)
RC (Multiple Residence)

5
5
12

TOPPING - The indiscriminate cutting back of tree branches to stubs or lateral branches that
are not large enough to assume the terminal role, which can lead to branch dieback, decay,
and unstable sprout production from the cut ends, resulting in a potentially hazardous
situation once the sprouts become large and heavy.
TREE — Any woody perennial plant of a species which grows at maturity to an overall
height of ten (10) feet or more and has a main stem or trunk or multiple trunks at maturity
which, in combination normally attain a DBH of four (4) inches or greater.
TREE EXPERT - A certified arborist or other professional certified by a recognized program of
higher education or governmental agency as a tree expert.
TREE PRESERVATION FUND - A special purpose fund into which shall be deposited any
penalties for violations or payments in lieu of replanting which shall be used at the discretion of
the Village Board of Trustees to promote the intent and purpose of this Chapter, including the
purchase and maintenance of trees, shrubs, and plants on public land. The Board of Trustees may
request from and consider recommendations initiated by the Conservation Advisory Council as
to the use of these funds.
§ 208-18. Prohibitions.
A. No person shall cut down or remove more than three (3) trees from any lot within the
preceding twelve (12) months without first obtaining a tree removal permit issued
pursuant to this chapter, which permit shall be in force and effect at the time of such tree
removal.
B. No person shall fasten or attach to any tree any sign, poster, bill, notice, advertisement of
any kind, birdhouse, clothesline or any other object, in a manner which will damage or
cause injury to a tree in any way.
C. No person shall perform clear cutting on any property within the Village, as defined in
this chapter.
D. No person shall top or excessively prune any tree.
E. No owner, lessee or occupant of any land or any part thereof shall install on any such, lot
or land any trees, shrubs or bushes which are classified as a prohibited invasive species in
6 NYCRR Part 575 Prohibited and Regulated Invasive Species
(http://www.dec.ny.gov/docs/lands_forests_pdf/gisprohibitedplants2.pdf).

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
§ 208-19. Tree removal permit required; approving authority.
A.

General regulations. A tree removal permit will be required before removing:
(1) More than three (3) trees within the preceding twelve (12) months.
(2) Any tree eight (8) inches or more in DBH on any parcel of land capable of being
subdivided under the zoning provisions applicable to the district in which the
parcel is situated or on any parcel of land without a residential structure or on any
property which would require site plan approval to be developed.
(3) Any tree four (4) inches or more in DBH growing on slopes of over 20%.
(4) Any tree four (4) inches or more in DBH within a wetland, watercourse or
wetland/watercourse buffer as defined in § 227-3.
(5) Any threatened or endangered species of tree, regardless of size, as defined by the
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.
(6) Landmark trees as herein defined, regardless of size.
(7) Any tree four (4) inches or more in DBH, the trunk of which is wholly or partially
located in a regulated buffer zone as herein defined.
(8) Clear cutting.

B.

Exceptions.
(1) No tree removal permit shall be required for work done by or on behalf of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
(2) Trees may be removed by the appropriate agency or authority as may be
necessary to maintain village, county, state or utility right-of-way, as a control
measure to fight forest or other fires, or under such other actual or ongoing
emergency condition when such tree removal is essential for the protection and
preservation of life or property.

C. Approving authority. The approving authority for all applications shall be the Village
Engineer or their designee, except that the Planning Board, as applicable, shall be the
approving authority for any application that is also the subject of a pending site plan,
minor site plan, subdivision approval, wetlands permit or steep slopes permit in
accordance with the requirements of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Except as otherwise required in connection with the review of subdivision and site
plan applications and steep slope applications by the Planning Board, the application
for a tree removal permit shall not be subject to a public hearing, and notification of
adjoining or other property owners is not required.
D.

Standards for granting tree removal permits. In determining whether a tree removal
permit shall be issued, and, if issued, whether conditions should be included with the

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
permit, or denied, the approving authority shall consider the following:
(1)

It is a hazardous tree endangering the health, safety, welfare or property of the
general public, the property owner or an adjoining property owner.

(2)

The tree is preventing compliance with state, county or local standards for sight
lines, driveways or intersections.

(3)

The tree is preventing the property owner from undertaking otherwise approved
construction or alteration because the location of the designated tree substantially
interferes with a permitted use of the property and the construction or alteration
cannot be reasonably modified to accommodate the designated tree; written
explanation may be required describing how the designated tree interferes with
construction or alteration and why the construction or alteration cannot be
modified reasonably to accommodate the designated tree.

(4)

The condition and species of the tree with respect to overall health, disease, insect
attack, damage, interference and potential interference with utility services, and
proximity to existing trees, existing structures or proposed structures.

(5)

The tree is dead, or so substantially diseased that it constitutes a danger to people,
property or other trees.

(6)

The environmental impact of the tree removal, including, but not limited to, the
effect of the tree removal on erosion moisture retention, steep slopes, flow of
surface waters and drainage, CO2 and breathable particulate removal, ecosystems
supporting wildlife, or any other environmental factor, and the aesthetic
compositions of the land and surrounding area.

(7)

Whether the proposed tree removal will cause injury to, cut, damage, destroy or
remove more trees than is reasonably necessary to achieve the goals of the
applicant, or is inconsistent with the stated purposes of this chapter.

(8)

Considerations of land use and the general welfare and overall environment of
the area.

(9)

The species of the tree and whether any tree in question is a tree worthy of
preservation due to unusual characteristics such as age, history, size, rarity,
financial value or visual importance to the neighborhood.

(10) The removal of the tree is not inconsistent with good silvicultural, horticultural
or vegetation management and will not have an adverse visual or ecological
impact.
E. Planning Board action which is deemed approval of tree removal. Where tree removal
is proposed in connection with any site plan, minor site plan, subdivision plat, wetlands
permit or steep slope permit application submitted or to be submitted to the Planning Board,
as applicable, trees shall be removed from the affected property only in conjunction with an
approved final subdivision plat, final site plan, minor site plan, wetlands or steep slope
permit application. A tree removal permit is not required in these cases.

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES

§ 208-20. Permit application.
A.

Any person proposing to conduct or cause to be conducted a regulated activity
specified in §208-19 hereof shall file an application for a permit with the approving
authority. The approval authority may require such information as it deems pertinent
to the individual circumstances. At minimum, the application shall include the
following information:
(1)

The name and address of the applicant.

(2)

The address and Village Tax Map designation of the property on which the tree(s)
is/are located.

(3)

The total land area involved in the regulated activity.

(4)

The number and size in DBH of trees to be removed.

(5)

The purpose of the tree removal.

(6)

A survey of that section to be disturbed, showing location of any regulated buffer
zone as herein defined as well as all trees, indicating those trees to be removed and
those trees to be preserved, their species and their diameter. In the case of site plans,
including minor site plans, and subdivision plats, the tree survey shall be submitted
to the Planning Board or Village Board as applicable as a part of the site plan,
subdivision plat, wetlands or steep slopes applications. Trees shall have numbering
and tagging. The numbering and tagging shall be both in the field as well as
illustrated on the plan.

(7)

Methods of removal.

(8)

A stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) consistent with the requirements
of Chapter 196, Article I, Stormwater Management and Erosion and Sediment
Control, shall be required for any tree removal permit that qualifies as or authorizes a
land development activity as defined in Chapter 196, Article I. The SWPPP shall
meet the performance and design criteria and standards in Chapter 196, Article I.
The approved tree removal permit shall be consistent with the provisions of Chapter
196, Article I.

B.

Where no subdivision, site plan, minor site plan, wetlands permit or steep slope permit
application is involved, the survey requirement may be eliminated by the approving
authority, and a plan drawn to scale showing the property lines and tree locations with
the tree diameters noted by the applicant may be substituted for Subsection A(6)
above.

C.

In cases where the Planning Board has received or will receive a site plan, minor site
plan, or subdivision application involving the disturbance of 100 or more acres and
where an acceptable erosion and sedimentation control plan has been or will be
prepared for such project and where an environmental impact statement has been or
will be prepared for such project a sampling technique may be used to estimate the

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
number, species and diameter of trees on the site and the number of trees proposed to
be removed. The specifics of the sampling technique shall be subject to the approval
of the Planning Board. Notwithstanding the above, all trees 22 inches in diameter at
breast height and greater in any areas proposed to be disturbed shall be individually
identified and marked in accordance with this article.
D.

A tree removal permit application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees.

E.

The approval authority is not required to process any application unless and until all
relevant information and required fee has been supplied.

F.

At the time a tree removal permit application is submitted, and until a tree removal
permit is granted or denied, the trunk of all trees proposed for removal shall be
encircled with orange tape or other methods of tagging, as authorized by the Approval
Authority, at 4.5 feet above the ground. No person shall cut down, remove, perform
topping, excessively prune, cause injury to, damage, wound, break, kill, destroy or
commit any act which will lead to the eventual removal of any tree regulated by this
chapter, until the administrative process set forth herein is completed, unless specific
written approval is provided by the approval authority prior to work taking place.

§ 208-21. Conditions for granting permits.
The approving authority may, as a condition of granting a permit:
A.

Require the reasonable relocation of proposed foundation walls, driveways, grading,
surface and subsurface improvements or drainage systems to preserve specific trees.

B.

Regulate the days and hours of operations of regulated activity.

C.

Require that each tree to be cut or removed be marked at one point low enough on the
trunk to be visible after removal of the tree so as to permit subsequent inspection.
Notwithstanding the above, where the use of a sampling technique has been approved,
trees less than 22 inches in diameter at breast height need not be marked.

D.

Require such safeguards as appropriate to minimize the environmental impact of such
removal operations, including the potential for reduced erosion control and increased
soil moisture retention and flow of surface waters on the property.

E.

Require additional information and conditions if the tree removal involves clear
cutting, including but not limited to:
(1) Detailed plans for the restoration of the site after tree removal, which shall be
certified by a recognized tree expert at the applicant's expense and drawn to a
scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, which includes to the satisfaction
of the approving authority the following:
(a)

Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY

TREES
Description of the proposed vegetative cover of the tree removal area,
including dominant species before and after the tree removal.

(b)

The location of the tree removal in relation to property lines, roads,
buildings, wetlands within 100 feet thereof, and any other regulated buffer
areas.

(2) The assistance of the CAC and, when necessary, a professional tree expert
selected by the approving authority who is especially qualified by reason of
training or experience in tree assessment, valuation, planting, conservation and
landscaping or landscape architecture or engineering, at the applicant's expense
(with 10 days prior notice to the applicant), which expense shall be reasonable
and customary for such services, in order to fully evaluate a tree removal permit
application, and carry out any requirements or conditions of a permit issued
under this chapter.
(3) Additional information as needed or deemed necessary by the approval authority
to evaluate the proposed tree removal in terms of the goals and standards of this
chapter.
F.
Require additional information and conditions, if the tree removal involves clear
cutting; or removing, pruning or topping a tree in excess of twelve (12) inches DBH or 30
feet in height or a Landmark Tree; or any other tree if it is determined the fall zone
endangers the health, safety and welfare of any persons or property; including but not
limited to:
(1) The applicant's hiring of a Licensed Professional Tree Care Company to perform
the cutting, removal or pruning.
i.

Prior to permit issuance, the applicant shall provide the Licensed
Professional Care Company's name, address, telephone number, name
of job manager, certificate of liability insurance naming "Village of
Croton-on-Hudson" as additionally insured, and a copy of their New
York State Workers Compensation insurance.

ii.

A contractor may be used at the approving authority's discretion when
the tree removal is part of an approved permit issued by any Board or
Officer of the Village and the contractor is approved for tree removal
by the Village Engineer, provided the information outlined above is
submitted in full.

G.

Require that the tree trunk, limbs, stump and any roots remaining above grade
be removed to a height that takes into account the safety, aesthetics and
environmental value of allowing the stump to deteriorate naturally.

H.