```yaml
title: "Local Law 18-2023: TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 233 WATER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-11-06
```

Local Law 18-2023
Filed: 2023-11-06
TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 233 WATER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not Include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to Indicate new matter.

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 18 of the year 2023

TO AMEND AND UPDATE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 233
(Insert Title)

WATER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

Be It enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 18-2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 223 WATER OF THE CODE OF
THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 223, Water, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
Section §223-5, Service connections and charges, Subsection B is amended to read as follows:
§ 223-5 Service connections and charges.
B.

Work in connection with the tapping of mains and/or waterlines of the Village water district (up
to two inches in size) must in all cases be performed by employees of the Department. Work in
connection with the installation of water service connections between the mains and the street
(lot) lines must in all cases be performed under the supervision of employees of the Department.
For service connections greater than two inches, the property owner shall assume the entire cost
of the water service, including but not limited to, the wet tap, tapping sleeve, valve and valve box,
piping, hydrants and all other appurtenances from the Village main to the building and hydrants,
with all work to be performed under the supervision of the employees of the Department. In all
cases, the owner of the property is responsible for all work outside the street lines. Tapping of all
Village mains is the domain of the Water Department. Upon request, the Department may
authorize an independent contractor to conduct a tap larger than two inches. Such independent
contractor must file an application on forms provided by the Department and containing
information and documentation as may reasonably be required by the Superintendent of the
Department of Public Works or his designated representative. For all work performed inside the
building, the owner must secure a qualified licensed plumber. The curb box shall be located no
further than three feet from the edge of pavement (or curb where curbs are in place). In the case
where the water main is located between the edge of pavement (or curb where curbs are in place)
and the property line, the curb box shall be located as close to the main as practicable, but in any
case, between the main and the property line. In all cases where a curb box is improperly located
on private property, the Water Department shall not be responsible for the repair and maintenance
of the service line, curb valve and/or curb valve box beyond the proper curb box location, even
though no curb box may be in place at the proper location. Upon completion of designated work
and prior to backfilling of trenches, all work must be inspected and approved by the
Superintendent of the Department of Public Works or his designated representative.

Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof, which other
portions shall continue in full force and effect.

Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 18 of 2023 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on October 16, 2023, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

- and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

,. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #212-2023
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 223, Water, of the Code of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson to clarify the responsible party for curb valves and
curb valve boxes on private property, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 18 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
WHEREAS a public hearing was opened and closed on October 16, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 18 of 2023 to amend Chapter 223, Water, of the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which upon adoption becomes Local Law
No. 18 of 2023.
Dated: October 16, 2023
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of
New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office
and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the
16th of October 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 18th day of October 2023.

(Seal)
