---
title: "Local Law 1-2016: AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MU"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2016-01-12
---

Local Law 1-2016
Filed: 2016-01-12
AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW 3-C

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County DCity DTown DVillage
of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 1 of the year 2016

A local law authorizing a property tax levy in excess of the limit established in General Municipal
Law §3-c

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
of the

County DCity DTown DVillage
(Select one:)
of Croton-on-Hudson
as follows:

A local law authorizing a property tax levy in excess of the limit established in General Municipal Law §3-c
Section 1. Legislative Intent
It is the intent of this local law to allow the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to adopt a budget for the fiscal year
commencing June 1, 2016 that requires a real property tax levy in excess of the "tax levy limit" as defined by
General Municipal Law § 3-c.

Section 2. Authority
This local law is adopted pursuant to subdivision 5 of General Municipal Law §3-c, which expressly authorizes a local
government's governing body to override the property tax cap for the coming fiscal year by the adoption of a local law
approved by a vote of sixty percent (60%) of said governing body.
Section 3. Tax Levy Limit Override
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester, is hereby authorized to adopt a
budget for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2016 that requires a real property tax levy in excess of the amount
otherwise prescribed in General Municipal Law §3-c.

Section 4. Severability
If a court determines that any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this local law or the application
thereof to any person, firm or corporation, or circumstance is invalid or unconstitutional, the court's order or judgment
shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder of this local law, but shall be confined in its operation to the
clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this local law, or in its application to the person, individual, firm or
corporation or circumstance, directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment or order shall be rendered.
Section 5. Effective date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 1 of 2016 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on January 4, 2016 in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
20.
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter ):
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1 above.

Clerk
City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

On motion of TRUSTEE Gallelli, seconded by TRUSTEE Walsh, the following resolution
was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson with a
vote of 5-0:
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that establishes a
"property tax cap" on the amount that a local government's property tax levy can increase each
year; and

WHEREAS, this law became effective for local governments fiscal year beginning in 2012; and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes charged on the
municipality's taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at .12 percent (as updated for
2016) or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to protect
the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event that an override is necessary, the law
enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2016 has been drafted to override the "property
tax cap" law enacted by State Legislature if necessary; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 4, 2016,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2016 to override the "property tax cap" law enacted by State
Legislature if necessary, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 1 of 2016.
Dated: January 4, 2016

State of New York )
ss:
County of Westchester )

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New York, do
hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on January 4th, 2016.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village this 05th
day of January, 2016.

(Seal)

Introductory Local Law No. 1 of the year 2016
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester
A local law authorizing a property tax levy in excess of the limit established in
General Municipal Law §3-c
Section 1. Legislative Intent
It is the intent of this local law to allow the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to adopt a
budget for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2016 that requires a real property tax levy
in excess of the "tax levy limit" as defined by General Municipal Law § 3-c.
Section 2. Authority
This local law is adopted pursuant to subdivision 5 of General Municipal Law §3-c, which
expressly authorizes a local government's governing body to override the property tax
cap for the coming fiscal year by the adoption of a local law approved by a vote of sixty
percent (60%) of said governing body.
Section 3. Tax Levy Limit Override
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester, is
hereby authorized to adopt a budget for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2016 that
requires a real property tax levy in excess of the amount otherwise prescribed in General
Municipal Law §3-c.
Section 4. Severability
If a court determines that any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this
local law or the application thereof to any person, firm or corporation, or circumstance is
invalid or unconstitutional, the court's order or judgment shall not affect, impair, or
invalidate the remainder of this local law, but shall be confined in its operation to the
clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this local law or in its application to
the person, individual, firm or corporation or circumstance, directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment or order shall be rendered.
Section 5. Effective date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.
