```yaml
title: "Local Law 1-2023: TO AMEND THE CHAPTER 113 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON ELECTRIC"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-03-16
```

Local Law 1-2023
Filed: 2023-03-16
TO AMEND THE CHAPTER 113 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON ELECTRICAL STANDARDS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

Village
(Select one:)
of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 01 of the year 2023
A local law TO AMEND THE CHAPTER 113 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, ELECTRICAL STANDARDS

Be It enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
of the
Village
(Select one:)
of Croton-on-Hudson
as follows:

see attached.

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 1 OF 2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 113 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, ELECTRICAL STANDARDS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 113-5.A, Application for electrical work, of the Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 113-5 Application for electrical work.
A. No writing, device or equipment for the transmission, distribution or utilization of electrical
energy or light, power and/or heat shall be installed in or on any building or structure, nor
shall any alteration or addition be made to any such existing wiring, devices or equipment,
without first submitting an application for such work to an authorized agency.
Section Two. Section 113-6.A, Electrical Inspectors, of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 113-6 Electrical inspectors.
A. Any agency duly authorized by Westchester County is hereby empowered to provide one
or more electrical inspectors, as required, to make inspections and reinspections of all new
installations and of all existing installations as provided for in this chapter. All such
agencies will be subject to approval by the Village Engineer prior to conducting any
inspections as authorized by this chapter.

Section Three. Section 113-7.A, Inspections and certifications, of the Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 113-7 Inspections and certifications.
A. Certification following inspection.

(1) Upon the completion of the installation of the electrical wiring, devices and equipment, it
shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation installing the same to notify an authorized
agency, whose inspector shall inspect the installation promptly after such notice is given. If it
is found to be fully in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, he shall issue the
certificate of the authorized agency to such person, firm or corporation as a final approval
authorizing connection to the electrical service and/or the turning on of the current and the use
of the installation. He shall send written notice of the authorization to the public utility
corporation furnishing the electrical service. When a certificate is issued authorizing the

connection and the use of temporary work, such a certificate shall be issued to expire at a
stated time and shall be revocable by the inspector at his discretion.
(2) If, upon the inspection of the installation, it is not found to be fully in compliance with this
chapter, the inspector shall at once forward to the person, firm or corporation installing the
wiring a written notice stating the defects which have been found to exist.
(3) When any part of a wiring installation is to be concealed from view by the permanent
placement of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation installing the wiring shall
notify the inspector. Such parts of the wiring installation shall not be concealed until they
have been inspected.
Section Four. Section 113-10, Liability, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
§ 113-10 Liability.
This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person
owning, operating, controlling or installing any electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment
for loss of life or damage to person or property caused by any defect therein, nor shall the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson or other authorized agency be deemed to have assumed any such liability by
reason of any inspection made pursuant to this chapter.
Section Five. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Six. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 2023 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on March 06, 2023, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
. Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
, State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Clerk of the Village Clerk or
office designated by local legislative body

Date: 3/15/23

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following resolution was adopted by the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #36-2023
WHEREAS all individuals performing electrical inspections in Westchester County must be licensed pursuant to
County law, and
WHEREAS the current Electrical Standards set forth by the Village Code predate this arrangement, creating
unnecessary redundancy in the process of approving electrical inspectors to operate within the Village of Croton-onHudson, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees desires to update Chapter 113, Electrical Standards, of the Village Code to align
with present-day conditions, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2023, has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on March 6, 2023, a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2023 was opened and closed,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory
No. 1 of 2023, to update Chapter 113, Electrical Standards, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law 1 of 2023.

Dated: March 6, 2023

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New York, do
hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 6th of March 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village this 08th day
of March 2023.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
