---
title: "Local Law 16-2022: TO AMEND THE ETHICS LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON CHAPTER 2"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-12-09
---

Local Law 16-2022
Filed: 2022-12-09
TO AMEND THE ETHICS LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON CHAPTER 20

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Albany, NY 12231-0001

www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

FILED
•County
•City
•Town
[X] Village

Of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 16 of the year 2022

TO AMEND THE ETHICS LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE
(Insert Title)

OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 20

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County
•City
•Town
[X] Village

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW 16 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE ETHICS LAW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE
OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 20
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Westchester
County, New York, as follows:
Section One: The existing Chapter 20 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, "Ethics,
Code of," is hereby repealed and replaced to read as follows:
§ 20-1 Purpose.
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson recognizes that it must establish high
standards of ethical conduct for public officers, board members, and employees of the Village so
as to promote public confidence in the integrity of local government. Public officers and
employees of the Village hold their positions to serve and to benefit the public and not for
obtaining unwarranted personal or private gain in the exercise and performance of their official
functions. It is the purpose of this chapter to afford public officers and employees of the Village
clear guidance on ethical standards and to serve as a guide for clear and reasonable official
conduct.
§ 20-2. Applicability
This Code is enacted pursuant to § 806 of the General Municipal Law of the State of New York
and § 10 of the Municipal Home Rule Law. The rules of ethical conduct of this chapter, as
adopted, shall not conflict with but shall be in addition to any prohibition of Article 18 of the
General Municipal law or any other general or special law relating to ethical conduct and interest
in contracts of municipal officers and employees.
§ 20-3 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
BOARD
The Village Board of Trustees and any municipal administrative board (e.g., Planning
Board, Water Control Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals), commission or other agency
or body comprised of two or more municipal officers or employees.
BOARD MEMBER
A member of any Village Board
CODE
This Code of Ethics.

CONTRACT
Any claim, account or demand against or agreement with a municipality, express or implied, and
shall include the designation of a depository of public funds and the designation of a newspaper,
including but not limited to an official newspaper, for the publication of any notice, resolution,
ordinance, or other proceeding where such publication is required or authorized by law.
INTEREST
A direct or indirect financial or material benefit, but does not include any benefit arising
from the provision or receipt of any services generally available to the residents or
taxpayers of the municipality or an area of the municipality, or a lawful class of such
residents or taxpayers. A municipal officer or employee is deemed to have an interest in any
private organization when he or she, his or her spouse or a member of his or her household
is an owner, partner, member, director, officer or employee or directly or indirectly owns or
controls more than 5% of the organization, outstanding stock.
MUNICIPALITY
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson. The word "municipal" refers to the municipality.
MUNICIPAL OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE
An officer or employee of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, whether paid or unpaid, and
whether appointed, hired, or elected, including all decision-making officers, employees, and
members of any decision-making board, body, council, commission, agency, department, or
committee. No person shall be deemed a municipal officer or employee solely by reason of
being a volunteer firefighter or civil defense volunteer, except the Fire Chief or an Assistant
Fire Chief
RELATIVE
A spouse, domestic partner, parent, step-parent, sibling, step-sibling, step-sibling's spouse,
child, step-child, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, first cousin or household member of municipal
officer or employee and individuals having any of these relationships to the spouse of the
officer or employee.
§ 20-4 Standards of Conduct.
Every municipal officer or employee shall be subject to and abide by the following standards of
conduct:
A. General prohibition. A municipal officer or employee shall not use his or her official
position or office, or fail to take any discretionary action, in a manner in which he or
she knows, or has reason to know, may result in a personal, financial or material
benefit to;
1. The Village officer or employee;
2. His or her outside employer or business;

3. A customer or client;
4. A person from whom the municipal officer or employee has received election
campaign contributions of more than $1,000 in the aggregate during the past
12 months;
5. A relative; or
6. Any firm, corporation, association, partnership or other organization in which
the Village officer or employee, or a relative, serves as an officer or director,
whether compensated or uncompensated or of which he or she legally or
beneficially owns or controls more than 5% of the outstanding stock or has
authority to decide upon grants or other monetary benefits.
B. Recusal and abstention.
1. A municipal officer or employee shall promptly recuse himself or herself from
acting on any matter before the Village, including discussing the matter and
participating in voting, when acting or failing to act on the matter may benefit
the persons listed in § 20-4(A), financially or otherwise, or give the
reasonable appearance of a conflict of interest or impropriety.
2. Whenever a municipal officer or employee is required to recuse himself or
herself under this Code, he or she:
a. Must promptly inform his or her superior, if any;
b. Must promptly file with the municipal clerk a signed statement
disclosing the nature and extent of the prohibited action or, if a
member of a Board, must state the information upon the public record
of the Board; and
c. Must immediately refrain from participating further in the matter.
3. they must do so on the record and/or in writing and refrain from any further
participation in the matter.
4. If this section prohibits a municipal officer or employee from exercising or
performing a power or duty:
a. If the power or duty is vested in a Board Member, then the power or
duty shall be exercised or performed by the remaining members of the
Board who are not subject to recusal.
b. If the power or duty is vested in an individual officer, then the power
or duty shall be exercised or performed by his or her deputy. If the

individual officer or employee does not have a deputy, the power or
duty shall be performed by another person to whom the Village
Manager may lawfully delegate the function.
c. If the power or duty is vested in an individual employee, he or she
shall refer the matter to his or her immediate supervisor, and the
immediate supervisor shall designate another individual to exercise or
perform the duty.
C. Gifts and solicitations
1. No municipal officer or employee shall directly or indirectly solicit any gifts,
whether in the form of money, services, travel, entertainment, hospitality,
thing, or promise, or in any other form, or accept any gifts from any person,
partnership, corporation, or other entity which has a business relationship with
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
2. No municipal officer or employee shall, directly or indirectly, solicit any gift,
contribution, or donation from any person on Village property.
3. No municipal officer or employee shall, directly or indirectly, solicit any gift,
contribution, or donation from any subordinate employee or board member.
4. No municipal officer or employee may accept or receive any gift or gifts from
the same donor, having annual aggregate value of $75 or more when:
i. The gift could or reasonably appear to be intended to influence the
officer or employee in the exercise or performance of his or her
official powers or duties; or
ii. The gift could or reasonably appear intended as a reward for any
official action on the part of the officer or employee.
5. Valuation of gifts
i. The value of the gift is the gift's fair market value, determined by the
retail cost of the item or a comparable item, at the time it is sought to
be given.
ii. The fair market value of a ticket or voucher entitling the holder to
food, refreshments, entertainment, or any other benefit is determined
by the face value of the ticket or the actual cost to the donor,
whichever is greater.
iii. Determination of whether multiple gifts from a single donor exceeds
$75 must be made by adding together the value of all gifts received

from the donor by an officer or employee during the twelve-month
period preceding the receipt of the most recent gift.
6. Gifts intended to influence or reward
i. A gift to a municipal officer or employee is presumed to be intended to
influence the officer or employee in their exercise or performance of
his or her official powers or duties when the gift is from a private
person or organization that seeks municipal action involving the
exercise of discretion by or with the participation of the officer of
employee.
ii. A gift to a municipal officer or employee is presumed to be intended
as a reward for official action when the gift is from a private person or
organization that has sought municipal action involving the exercise of
discretion by or with the participation of the officer or employee
during the preceding twelve (12) months.
7. The term "gift" does not prohibit any other gift, including:
i. Gifts made to the municipality;
ii. Gifts from a person with a family or personal relationship with the
municipal officer or employee when the circumstances make it clear
that the personal relationship, rather than the recipient's status as a
municipal officer or employee, is the primary motivating factor for the
gift;
iii. Gifts given on special occasions, such as marriage, holidays, illness, or
retirement, which are modest, reasonable, and customary;
iv. Unsolicited promotional items having no substantial resale value, such
as pens, pencils, note pads, and calendars;
v. Awards and plaques having a value of $75 or less which are publicly
presented in recognition of public service or for other services
rendered to the community; or
vi. Meals and refreshments provided when a municipal officer or
employee is a speaker or participant at a job-related professional or
educational conference or program or where the municipal official is
performing a ceremonial function, and the meals or refreshments are
made available to all participants.
D. Political solicitations and campaign activities.

1. No municipal officer or employee shall directly or indirectly compel or induce
a subordinate municipal officer or employee to participate in an election
campaign or to make, or promise to make, any political contribution, whether
by gift of money, service, or thing of value.
2. No municipal officer or employee may act or decline to act in relation to
appointing, hiring, promoting, discharging, or disciplining, or in any manner
changing the official rank, status, or compensation of any municipal officer or
employee, or an applicant for a position as a municipal officer or employee,
because of the giving or withholding or neglecting to make any contribution
of money or service of any other valuable thing for any political purpose.
3. No employee shall engage in political campaign activities during the official
hours of his or her Village of Croton-on-Hudson workday.
E. Nepotism.
1. Except as otherwise required by law:
i. No municipal officer or employee, either individually or as a member
of a board, may participate in any decision to appoint, hire, promote,
discipline, or discharge a relative for any position at, for, or within the
municipality or a municipal board.
ii. No municipal officer or employee may audit or supervise a relative in
the performance of the relative's official powers or duties.
2. An employee currently employed prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be
exempt.
F. Disclosure of confidential information.
No municipal officer or employee who acquires confidential information in the course of
exercising or performing his or her official powers or duties may disclose or use such
information unless the disclosure or use is required by law or in the course of exercising
or performing his or her official powers or duties.
G. Disclosure of interest in legislation and official action.
1. Whenever a matter requiring the exercise of discretion comes before a
municipal officer or employee, either individually or as a member of a board,
and disposition of the matter could result in a direct or indirect financial or
material benefit to the persons listed in § 20-4(A), the municipal officer shall
disclose in writing the nature of the interest.
2. The disclosure shall be made at the earlier of when the matter requiring

disclosure first comes before the municipal officer or employee or when the
municipal officer or employee first acquires knowledge of the interest
requiring disclosure.
3. In all cases, the disclosure shall be filed with the Village Manager's Office.
Any disclosure related to a member of a board shall be made publicly at a
meeting of the board and be included in the official record of the meeting.
H. Interest in Village contracts.
1. No municipal officer or employee may have an interest in a contract that is
prohibited by § 801 of the General Municipal Law.
2. Every municipal officer and employee shall disclose interests in contracts with
the municipality at the time and in the manner required by § 803 of the
General Municipal Law.
I. Private employment in conflict with official duties.
1. No municipal officer or employee, during his or her tenure as a municipal
officer or employee, may engage in any private employment, including the
rendition of any business, commercial, professional, or other types of services,
when the employment:
i. Can be reasonably expected to require more than sporadic recusal and
abstention pursuant to § 20-4(C) of this Code; or
ii. Can be reasonably expected to require disclosure or use of confidential
information gained by reason of serving as a municipal officer or
employee; or
iii. Requires representation of a person or organization other than the
municipality in connection with litigation, negotiations, or any other
matters to which the municipality is a party; or
iv. Otherwise violates § 805-a(l)(c)-(d) of the General Municipal Law.
2. A municipal officer or employee may not represent any other person in any
matter that person has before the municipality nor represent any other person
in any matter against the interests of the municipality.
3. A municipal officer or employee may not appear before any agency of the
municipality, except on his or her own behalf or on behalf of the municipality.

J. Future employment

1. No municipal officer or employee may ask for, seek, or accept a private postgovernment employment opportunity with any person or organization that has
a matter requiring the exercise of discretion pending before the municipal
officer or employee, either individually or as a member of a board, while the
matter is pending or within the ninety (90) days following final disposition of
the matter.
2. No municipal officer or employee, for the one-year period after serving as a
municipal officer or employee, may represent or render services to a private
person or organization in connection with any matter involving the exercise of
discretion before the municipal office, board, department, or comparable
organizational unit for which he or she serves.
3. No municipal officer or employee at any time after serving as a municipal
officer or employee may represent or render services to a private person or
organization in connection with any particular transaction in which he or she
personally and substantially participated while serving as a municipal officer
or employee.
K. Investments in conflict with official duties.
1. No municipal officer or employee may acquire the following investments:
i. Investments that can be reasonably expected to require more than
sporadic recusal and abstention under § 20-4(C) of this Code; or
ii. Investments that would otherwise impair the person's independence of
judgment in the exercise or performance of his or her official powers
or duties; or
iii. Investments from any Village of Croton-on-Hudson auction if the
municipal employee or officer is in the position to negotiate, prepare,
authorize, or approve the contract for the sale upon which he or she is
bidding.
2. This section does not prohibit a municipal officer or employee from acquiring
any other investments or the following assets:
i. Real property located within the municipality and used as his or her
personal residence; or
ii. Less than 5% of the stock of a publicly traded corporation; or
iii. Bonds or notes issued by the municipality and acquired more than one
year after the date on which the bonds or notes were originally issued.

L. Treatment of Public.
A municipal officer or employee of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall treat all
members of the public, whether a person, firm, corporation, or other organization,
with respect and in a professional manner, with equal consideration and without
special advantage in carrying out his or her official duties.
§ 20-5 Exceptions.
A. This code's prohibition on use of a municipal position (§ 20-4A), disclosure requirements
(§ 20-4G-H) and requirements relating to recusal and abstention (§ 20-4C) shall not apply with
respect to the following matters:
(1) Adoption of the municipality's annual budget.
(2) Any matter requiring the exercise of discretion that directly affects any of the following
groups of people or a lawful class of such groups:
(a) All municipal officers or employees;
(b) All residents or taxpayers of the municipality or an area of the municipality; or
(c) The general public.
(3) Any matter that does not require the exercise of discretion.
B. Recusal and abstention shall not be required with respect to any matter:
(1) Which comes before a board when a majority of the board's total membership would
otherwise be prohibited from acting by § 36-7 of this code.
(2) Which comes before a municipal officer when the officer would be prohibited from acting
by § 20-4C of this code and the matter cannot be lawfully delegated to another person.
§ 20-6 Personal representations and claims permitted.
This code shall not be construed as prohibiting a municipal officer or employee from:
A. Representing himself or herself, or his or her spouse or minor children, before the
municipality; or
B. Asserting a claim against the municipality on his or her own behalf, or on behalf of his or
her spouse or minor children.
§ 20-7 Use of municipal resources.
A. Municipal resources shall be used for lawful municipal purposes. Municipal resources
include, but are not limited to, municipal personnel and the municipality's money, vehicles,
equipment, materials, supplies or other property.

B. No municipal officer or employee may use or permit the use of municipal resources for
personal or private purposes, but this provision shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(1) Any use of municipal resources authorized by law or municipal policy; or
(2) The use of municipal resources for personal or private purposes when provided to a
municipal officer or employee as part of his or her compensation; or
(3) The occasional and incidental use during the business day of municipal telephones and
computers for necessary personal matters such as family care and changes in work schedule.
C. No municipal officer or employee shall cause the municipality to spend more than is
reasonably necessary for transportation, meals or lodging in connection with official travel.
§ 20-8 Posting and distribution of code.
A. Pursuant to New York General Municipal Law § 806, the Village Manager shall cause a
copy of this Code to be distributed to each municipal officer and employee upon the
adoption of this chapter and at the time of commencement of each person's service in each
new capacity. The code, and any amendment thereto, shall be posted publicly and
conspicuously in each building under municipal control. The code must be posted within 10
days following the date on which the code takes effect. An amendment to the code must be
posted within 10 days following the date on which the amendment takes effect.
B. The failure to post this code, or an amendment to the code, does not affect either the
applicability or enforceability of the code or the amendment. The failure of a municipal
officer or employee to receive a copy of this Code of Ethics, or an amendment to the code,
or to acknowledge receipt thereof in writing, does not affect either the applicability or
enforceability of the code or amendment to the code.
§ 20-9 Penalties for offenses.
Any municipal officer or employee who violates this code may be censured, fined, suspended or
removed from office or employment in the manner provided by law.
Section Two: Severability. If any section, subsection, clause, phrase, or other portion of this
Local Law is, for any reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency,
commission, legislative body, or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate distinct and independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three: Effective Date. This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the
Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 16 of 2022 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on December 05, 2022 in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of .
was duly passed by the
on
20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
. and was (approved)(not approved)
.
on
20
.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum,)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
on
20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 , became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.
Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
Officer designated by local legislative body
(Seal)

Date: 12/07/2022

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #193-2022
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 20 of the Village Code, Code
of Ethics, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2022 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2022 was
opened and closed on December 5, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2022 to amend Chapter 20 of the Village
Code, Code of Ethics, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 16 of 2022.
Dated: December 5, 2022

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy
of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 5th of December 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
of the said Village this 06th day of December 2022.

(Seal)
