---
title: "Local Law 1-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-02-22
---

Local Law 1-2000
Filed: 2000-02-22

Local Law Filing

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County
City

Croton on Hudson

Village
Local Law No. 1 of the year 2000

establishing a sidewalk improvement program
(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village as follows:

Section 1. Sidewalk Improvement Program - Purpose.
The Board of Trustees has made a determination that many sidewalks located within the Village are in significant need of repair. The Board of Trustees also recognizes that the repair of sidewalks can be costly and that it imposes a difficult economic hardship on the homeowner to keep the sidewalks in good repair. The Board of Trustees has determined that it is in the best interests of the Village to have properly maintained sidewalks and, therefore, has decided to assist residents in maintaining the sidewalks to the extent outlined within this Local Law.

Section 2. Administration.
Any owner of real property within the Village whose real property abuts on any public street may be eligible for the following sidewalk replacement program hereby established:
A. If the sidewalk is in need of repair or replacement, the owner of said property may make application to the Village requesting that the sidewalk be repaired or replaced. A fee for the filing of said application may be established by the Village Board of Trustees. Applications will be processed and acted upon at the sole discretion of the Village.
B. The Village will pay fifty (50%) of the actual contract cost for the removal and replacement of sidewalks to residents who apply during the period of June 1, 2000 to May 31, 2005 of the sidewalk replacement program and twenty-five

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
(1)

(25%) percent of the actual contract cost to residents who apply during the period of June 1, 2005 to May 31, 2007 including materials and labor for the repairs and reconstruction. The prevailing rate established by the Village will be used in determining the total cost of the improvements.
The Village Engineer shall determine the nature and extent of sidewalk repairs qualifying for reimbursement under this program. After review of the application by the Village Engineer and the determination of repairs qualifying for reimbursement, the Village Engineer will notify the applicant in writing of the contribution to be made by the property owner. After receipt of the property owner's share of the cost of the work, all repairs and reconstruction will be scheduled by the Village Engineer and performed by the contractor or contractors selected by the Village in accordance with specifications provided by the Village Engineer. All work shall be subject to inspection by the Village Engineer or his designee during construction, and must be approved by the Village Engineer before the Village authorizes payment to the contractor or contractors.
The Village encourages pooling of neighborhoods interested in repairing or replacing their sidewalks. The deadline date for pooling is March 31 of each year.
The Village will provide funding only to the extent that Village funds for the sidewalk improvement program are available, and such availability will be at the sole discretion of the Board of Trustees. Failure of the Board of Trustees to budget funds for repair of sidewalks shall in no way excuse any property owner from properly maintaining, repairing, constructing or replacing sidewalks in accordance with Article IV of Chapter 197 of the Croton-onHudson Village Code.

F. After the seven (7) year period of the sidewalk improvement program has elapsed all property owners who have not applied for participation in the program whose real property abuts on any public street shall be responsible for undertaking all repairs or improvements at their own expense without any Village subsidy in accordance with the provisions of Section 197-24 of the Village Code and further the Village will carry out its responsibilities in accordance with Sections 197-25, 197-26 and 197-27 of the Village Code.

Section 3. Liability- In the event that personal injury or property damage shall result from the failure of any owner or occupant to comply with the provisions of Section 197-15 and Section 197-24 of the Village Code requiring maintenance, repair, and snow and ice removal, the owner and the occupant shall be liable to all persons injured, or whose property is damaged directly, or indirectly, and shall be liable to the Village to the extent that said Village is required by law or by any Court to respond in damages to any injured party.

Section 4. Section 197-15.B. is hereby amended to read as follows: Every person neglecting, failing or refusing to comply with this section shall pay a penalty as provided in § 1-12 of Chapter 1, General Provisions, for each day of such neglect, failure or

refusal, and every person who shall refuse or neglect to clean said walk, after receiving six hours' notice in writing from a police officer, the Village Code Enforcement Officer, the Director of Public Works, the Village Manager, or their designees, of said village to do so, shall pay, in addition, the cost of cleaning said walk by the village, the cost thereof, after being duly audited, to be added to said penalty per day and recovered and collected at the same time and manner as said penalty is collected.

Section 5. This local law shall become effective immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 1 of 2000 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton on Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on Feb 8 2000 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the on 19—, and was deemed duly adopted on 19—,
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the on 19—. Such local law was submitted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 19—, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the on 19—. Such local law was subject to
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 19—, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)
