---
title: "Local Law 12-2022: TO DELETE CHAPTER 197-9 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, GENERAL "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-11-16
---

Local Law 12-2022
Filed: 2022-11-16
TO DELETE CHAPTER 197-9 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, GENERAL USE REGULATIONS FOR STREET TREES, TO ALIGN WITH THE PROVISIONS IN CHAPTER 208

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 122310001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

•County
DCity
DTown
DVillage

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 12 of the year 2022

A local law TO DELETE CHAPTER 197-9 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, GENERAL USE REGULATIONS FOR STREET TREES, TO
ALIGN WITH PROVISIONS IN CHAPTER 208

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County
nCity
GTown
[X]Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW 12 OF 2022
A LOCAL LAW TO DELETE CHAPTER 197-9 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, GENERAL USE REGULATIONS FOR STREET TREES, TO
ALIGN WITH PROVISIONS IN CHAPTER 208
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 197-9 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby deleted
in its entirety.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 12 of 2022
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on November 01, 2022 in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body) provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the on 20 .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the on 20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 20 , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Date: 11/17/2022

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #160-2022
WHEREAS §197-9 of the Village Code, general use regulations related to street trees, has been
found to be inconsistent with the provisions outlined in §208 of the Village Code, Trees, and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to amend the code to remove redundant and inconsistent language
applicable to the care and maintenance of street trees, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 15 of 2022 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 15 was opened and closed on November
1, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 15 of 2022 to delete §197-9 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
General Use Regulations for Street Trees, to align with provisions in §208, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 12 of 2022.

Dated: November 1, 2022
State of New York
) ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on November 01, 2022.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 04th day of November 2022.
