---
title: "Local Law 12-2021: TO AMEND CHAPTER 227 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON WETLANDS TO "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2021-10-28
---

Local Law 12-2021
Filed: 2021-10-28
TO AMEND CHAPTER 227 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON WETLANDS TO AMEND THE DATE RANGE FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

STATE RECORDS
• County • City • Town • Village

OCT 28 2021

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 12
A local law of the year 2021

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

TO AMEND CHAPTER 227 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON, WETLANDS, TO AMEND THE DATE RANGE FOR PUBLIC
HEARINGS

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

• County
• City
• Town
[X] Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 12 OF 2021
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 227 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, WETLANDS, TO AMEND THE DATE RANGE FOR PUBLIC
HEARINGS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 227-7 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to read as follows:
§ 227-7 Permits.
I. When the Planning Board is the approving authority, no sooner than 14 days and no
later than 60 days after the receipt of a completed application, the Planning Board shall
hold a public hearing on any application submitted pursuant to this chapter. These time
periods may be extended by mutual agreement between an applicant and the Planning
Board. The Planning Board shall cause notice of such hearing to be published in the
Village's official newspaper(s) at least seven days prior to the date set for such hearing. All
applications and maps and documents relating thereto shall be open for public inspection at
the office of the Village Engineer.

Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 12 of 2021
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on October 4, 2021, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20 .
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
20 and was (approved)(not approved)
on 20 Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the City of , having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 20 , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20
of the County of , State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
with a 5-0 vote.
• Resolution #167-2021
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 227 of the Village Code, Wetlands, to amend
the date range for public hearings; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2021 has been drafted to reflect such language; and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2021 was opened and closed
on October 4, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 12 of 2021 to amend Chapter 227 of the Village Code, Wetlands, to amend
the date range for public hearings, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 12 of 2021.
Dated: October 4, 2021

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on October 04th, 2021.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village this 05th day of October 2021.
