---
title: "Local Law 2-2018: AMENDING CHAPTER 168 PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS TO CHANGE THE APPROVAL PROCESS F"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2018-01-22
---

Local Law 2-2018
Filed: 2018-01-22
AMENDING CHAPTER 168 PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS TO CHANGE THE APPROVAL PROCESS FOR SALES IN PARKS FROM VILLAGE BOARD RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZATION OF THE VILLAGE MANAGER

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
FILED
[ ] County [ ] City [ ] Town [x] Village
STATERECORDS
(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

JAN 22 2018
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
of the year 2018

Local Law No. 2

A local law amending Chapter 168 Parks and Recreation Areas to change the approval process
(insert Title)

for sales in parks from Village Board resolution to authorization of the Village Manager

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

[ ] County

[ ] City

[ ] Town

[ ] Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF
STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 2 of the year 2018

A local law amending Chapter 168 Parks and Recreation Areas to change the approval process
for sales in parks from Village Board resolution to authorization of the Village
Manager
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1: Chapter 168-8 Prohibited Acts letter K of the Code of the Village of Croton on
Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
Sell or offer for sale any food, goods, wares or merchandise, except as authorized by the Village
Manager.
Section 3: This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 2 of 2018 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on January 16, 2018, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on
20 and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on
20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
20 .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on
20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 , became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

On motion of Trustee ATTIAS and seconded by Trustee GALLELLI, the
following resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a vote of 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton seeks to amend Chapter 168 Parks and
Recreation Areas to change the approval process for sales in parks from
Village Board resolution to authorization of the Village Manager; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2018 has been drafted to
amend Chapter 168 Parks and Recreation Areas; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 16, 2018,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees
hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2018 to amend Chapter 168
Parks and Recreation Areas to change the approval process for sales in parks
from Village Board resolution to authorization of the Village Manager,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law 2 of 2018.
Dated: January 16, 2018
State of New York

]

ss:
County of Westchester

)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on January 2, 2018.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal
of the said Village this 17th day of January 2018.

Village Clerk
