---
title: "Local Law 2-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-02-22
---

Local Law 2-2000
Filed: 2000-02-22

Local Law Filing

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY.NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated or italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
County

CROTON - ON - HUDSON
Town of
Village
Local Law No. 2
of the year 2000

A local law amending Chapter 86 of the Village Code by adding of a new paragraph to be enumerated as Section 86-9, paragraph I, titled "Payment of taxes Required."

Be It enacted by the BOARD OF TRUSTEES

of the

County
Town
Village

of CROTON-ON-HUDSON

as follows:

Section I. No permits, variances, licenses, subdivision or other approvals or authorizations shall be issued, no applications therefore shall be considered, and no informal preliminary review or other procedure in relation thereto shall be conducted by the Village Board, the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Building Inspector or any other board, commission or agency of the Village, with respect to any premises within the Village, unless and until all amounts due the Village on said premises in real estate taxes, special assessments and any other payments, chargeable to the owner or possessor of said premises, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall have been paid in full. The Village Board reserves the right to waive any and all of the above conditions as deemed necessary to fit special circumstances.
Section II. This local law shall become effective immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.

(1)

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 2 of 19 2000
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on 2/13, 2000 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19—, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) and was deemed duly adopted on 19—, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19—, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 19—. Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 19—, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19—, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 19—. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 19--- , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19
of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on — 19—-, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 19
of the County of -State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November 19—-, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title
of
Village of Croton on Hudson
Date:
(3)
