---
title: "Local Law 2-2014: AMENDING SECTION 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON AND THE ZONI"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2014-11-12
---

Local Law 2-2014
Filed: 2014-11-12
AMENDING SECTION 230 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON AND THE ZONING MAP ADOPTED THEREUNDER TO MODIFY THE EXISTING PRE-1 AND PRE-3 PARK, RECREATION, AND EDUCATION DISTRICTS AND ESTABLISH A NEW RA-60 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

Village
of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No: 2
of the year 2014

A local law amending section 230 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the Zoning Map
(Insert Title)

adopted thereunder to modify the existing PRE-1 and PRE-3 Park, Recreation, and
Education Districts and establish a new RA-60 Single Family Residence District

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
A. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 2 of 2014
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
was duly passed by the Board Of Trustees on November 3, 2014 in accordance with the applicable
provisions of law.

A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND
SECTION 230 OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
AND THE ZONING MAP ADOPTED
THEREUNDER TO MODIFY THE
EXISTING PRE-1 AND PRE-3 PARK,
RECREATION, AND EDUCATION
DISTRICTS AND ESTABLISH A NEW
RA-60 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE
DISTRICT

Local Law 2 of 2014
Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees, of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, as
follows:
Section 1.
The Zoning Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, last
revised prior to the enactment of this Local Law on January 31, 2005, and now being last revised
on [The Date of Enactment of This Local Law], which accompanies and is made a part of
Chapter 230 of the Village Code pursuant to Village Code Section 230-6 is hereby revised and
amended to modify boundaries of the existing PRE-1 and PRE-3 Park, Recreation and Education
Districts and to establish the boundaries of a new RA-60 Single Family Residence District, all of
which consist of approximately 907 acres in the southern and northern portions of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson. The southern rezoning area consists of Croton Point Park, which is currently
zoned RA-40. The northern rezoning areas encompass the Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC)
area, two Audubon sanctuaries (Graff Sanctuary and Brinton Brooke Sanctuary), and a narrow
length of land along Albany Post Road/Route 9A. All of the northern study area is currently zoned
RA-40. The proposed rezoning areas are specifically set forth on the attached map and table.

Proposed Zoning Map

Section 2.
Village Code Section 230 is amended as follows to establish and codify the
new RA-60 Single Family Residence District (additions and deletions shown in redline/strikeout):
§ 230-4 Terms defined.

BUILDING - Any combination of materials forming any construction. The term "building" shall
include the term "structure" as well as the following:
F.

Swimming pools either contemplated by § 230-9.1A(6) or conforming to § 230-
9.1A(10)(c).

§ 230-5 Classes of districts.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson recognizes the following zoning districts:
District Title
One-Family Residence
One-Family Residence
One-Family Residence
One-Family Residence
One-Family Residence
Two-Family Residence
Multiple Residence
Limited Office
Limited Office
Central Commercial
General Commercial
Light Industrial
Waterfront Commercial
Park, Recreation and Education
Multiple Development Use
Waterfront Development

Symbol
RA-60
RA-40
RA-25
RA-9
RA-5
RB
RC
O-1
O-2
C-1
C-2
LI
WC
PRE
MDU
WD

Chapter Section
§ 230-9.1
§ 230-9.2
§ 230-10
§ 230-11
§ 230-12
§ 230-13
§ 230-14
§ 230-15
§ 230-15
§ 230-16
§ 230-17
§ 230-18
§ 230-19
§ 230-20
§ 230-21
§ 230-22

§ 230-9.1 One-Family Residence RA-60 District.
A.

In a One-Family Residence RA-60 District, no building or premises shall be used and no
building or part of a building shall be erected or altered which is arranged, intended or
designed to be used, in whole or in part, for any uses except the following, and all uses and
buildings shall conform to the district bulk and parking regulations in Article VI and the
following regulations, whichever are more restrictive:

(1)

The raising of field and garden crops, vineyard and orchard farming, the
maintenance of nurseries and the seasonal sale of the products thereof, provided
that no building is erected and signs conform with § 230-44P(1)(e).

(2)

One-family detached dwellings not to exceed one such dwelling on each lot and
subject to the district bulk and parking regulations in Article VI.

(3)

Municipal buildings, structures and uses, subject to § 230-45.

(4)

Places of worship, including parish houses, schools, philanthropic and
eleemosynary institutions, hospitals and sanitariums for general medical care,
nursing and convalescent homes and homes for the aged, libraries, arboretums, all
subject to a special permit by the Village Board of Trustees and the following
requirements. A special permit shall be required for the expansion, extension,
reconstruction, rebuilding or relocation of any use or building described in this
Subsection A, notwithstanding that it represents an expansion, extension,
reconstruction, rebuilding or relocation of a use or building legally in existence on
January 1, 2001.
(a)

Any school permitted under this subsection shall be a nonprofit organization
within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Act and shall be registered
effectively as such thereunder.

(b)

Any school permitted under this subsection shall occupy a lot with an area
of not less than three acres.

(c)

Any philanthropic or eleemosynary institution, hospital, sanitarium, nursing
or convalescent home or home for the aged permitted under this subsection
shall occupy a lot which shall have an area of not less than five acres and
shall be housed only in a building which existed on July 28, 1931, with a
total floor area of 3,000 square feet or more.

(d)

No building or part thereof shall be erected nearer than 100 feet to any street
or property line.

(e)

The sum of all areas covered by all principal and accessory buildings shall
not exceed 15% of the area of the lot.

(f)

Courts shall conform to the requirements of § 230-43B hereof.

(5)

Railroad and public utility rights-of-way and structures necessary to serve areas
within the Village, subject, however, to a special permit by the Village Board of
Trustees and to such conditions, including appropriate lot size, yard and other bulk
regulations, as said Board may impose in order to protect and promote the health
and safety and general welfare of the community and the character of the
neighborhood in which the proposed structures to be constructed. No high-voltage

(6)

transmission line or tower permitted under this subsection shall exceed 100 feet in
height or be located less than 75 feet from any residential property line.
Annual membership clubs, on a lot having an area of not less than five acres, subject
to a special permit by the Village Board of Trustees, and provided that any such
club is incorporated pursuant to the provisions of the Not-For-Profit Corporation
Law or the Benevolent Orders Laws of the State of New York, catering exclusively
to members and their guests; and private playgrounds, swimming pools, tennis
courts and recreation buildings not conducted as business enterprises, provided
that:
(a)

The following shall be prohibited:
[1]

Outdoor entertainment, live or mechanical.

[2]

The use of outdoor public address systems for any purpose.

[3]

Exterior lighting, other than the essential for the safety of the users
of the premises.

(b)

No building or outdoor recreational facility erected under the provisions of
this subsection shall be erected nearer than 100 feet to any street or property
line.

(7)

Subject to a special permit by the Village Board of Trustees, the operation,
maintenance and preservation by a membership corporation or association not
operated for profit of historic sites, buildings, restorations and landmarks, the
maintenance and preservation of historic remains and objects and the exhibition
and display of such sites, buildings, restorations, landmarks, remains and other
objects to the public, whether indoors or outdoors and whether or not an admission
fee is charged, including uses and buildings incidental to or necessary for such
operations and also including, as incidental to the foregoing uses, the retail sale of
gifts, souvenirs and other appropriate goods and the sale of refreshments, meals and
lodging and motel or hotel accommodations. Such special permit shall be issued
upon a finding by the Village Board of Trustees that the proposed use is an actual
and bona-fide historic restoration.

(8)

Funeral homes, subject to a special permit by the Village Board of Trustees, in any
building in existence on July 28, 1931, with a total floor area in excess of 3,000
square feet situated on a lot of not less than one acre, provided that:
(a)

There shall be adequate off-street parking space, and in no event less than
set forth in § 230-51A.

(b)

There shall be no signs other than those permitted in § 230-44P(1)(e).

(c)

Visiting hours shall be prohibited after 10:00 p.m.

(d)

The principal building shall be located 40 feet or more from any lot or street
line.

(e)

There shall be no indoor or outdoor loudspeaker system, floodlights or other
outdoor lighting except as approved by the Village Board of Trustees.

(9) (Reserved)
(10)

Accessory uses, limited to the following:
(a)

Customary home occupations (which term shall exclude day-care centers
and bed-and-breakfast establishments), provided that:
[1]

There shall be no signs other than those permitted in § 230-
44P(1)(e).

[2]

Such occupation is incidental to the residential use of the premises
and is carried on by a resident thereon with no nonresident
assistants; provided, however, that when the person conducting such
home occupation has been legally declared blind or shall otherwise
be physically handicapped to the point of being incapable of
performing more than 25% of his usual regular work, he may, upon
receiving a special permit from the Village Board of Trustees,
engage the services of one assistant.

[3]

Such occupation is carried on in an area not exceeding 30% of the
total floor area of the main building.

(b)

Professional office or studio of an architect, artist, dentist, engineer, lawyer,
musician, teacher, physician, public accountant, chiropractor, city planner,
insurance broker, optometrist, osteopath, real estate broker or ladies'
hairdresser, but not including veterinarians, provided that:
[1]

Such office or studio is incidental to the residential use of the
premises and is carried on by a resident thereon with not more than
one nonresident assistant.

[2]

Such office or studio shall occupy not more than one floor of the
main building.

[3]

Studios where dancing or music instruction is offered to groups in
excess of four pupils at one time or where concerts or recitals are
held are prohibited.

(c)

Garden house, toolhouse, playhouse, boathouse, greenhouse or swimming
pool incidental to the residential use of the premises and not operated for
gain, provided that swimming pools with an area of 150 square feet or more
and a depth in excess of three feet shall be subject to the following
requirements:
[1]

The edge of the pool shall be kept a distance of not less than 10 feet
from all property lines.

[2]

If located within 30 feet of any property line, such pool shall be
screened from the view of abutting properties.

(d)

Private garage, provided that only one space may be leased to a person not
resident on the premises.

(e)

Keeping not more than one boarder or roomer.

(f)

Keeping domestic animals, except pigs, for individual domestic purposes or
as pets, provided that not more than three dogs over six months old and not
more than 25 fowl shall be permitted, and no animals, except dogs or cats,
or fowl shall be penned or housed within 50 feet of any lot line.

(g)

Day-care centers on a lot having a minimum area of 25,000 square feet,
subject to the issuance of a special permit by the Board of Trustees and to
the following conditions and limitations:
[1]

There shall be no more than one day-care center per lot.

[2]

The limits of any outdoor play or recreation area shall not extend
closer than 20 feet to any residential property line.

[3]

No recreational structure or equipment shall exceed 10 feet in
height.

[4]

The habitable floor area of the residence building used for day care
shall not exceed 33.3% of the total habitable floor area of the
building in which it is contained.

[5]

The maximum number of children using the day-care center at any
time shall not exceed 15.

[6]

The hours of operation shall be limited to no earlier than 7:00 a.m.
and to no later than 7:00 p.m.

[7]

The operator of the day-care center shall be the owner and a fulltime resident of the building, and there shall be no more than two
nonresident employees.

[8]

The day-care center shall comply with all applicable conditions and
limitations of the New York State Department of Social Services
relating to the operation and licensing of day-care centers and shall
have all required licenses and certificates.

[9]

The single-family character of the residence structure shall not be
altered to accommodate the proposed use or the requirements of any
other agency, code or regulation, and the applicant for a special
permit shall submit to the Board of Trustees floor plans and
elevations establishing compliance with this Subsection A(10)(g).

[10]

Fourteen copies of an application for a special permit shall be
submitted to the Board of Trustees, accompanied by a fee in an
amount set from time to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
The special permit may be issued only after public hearing and upon
determination that the proposed use is in compliance with the
conditions set in this Subsection A(10)(g). The initial permit shall
be valid for a period not to exceed two years, and a permit may be
revoked at any time by the Board of Trustees upon noncompliance
with the conditions set forth in this Subsection A(10)(g) or in the
permit itself. The permit shall not be effective until the day-care
center has been licensed by the New York State Department of
Social Services. A renewal permit may be issued without fee for a
period not to exceed five years.

[11]

Any new owner of the building in which a day-care center is
operated must apply to the Board of Trustees for a special permit to
continue a day-care center use.

(h)

Bed-and-breakfast establishments, subject to the issuance of a special
permit by the Board of Trustees and to the following conditions and
limitations:

[1]

An application for special permit shall be accompanied by a fee in
an amount set from time to time by resolution of the Board of
Trustees. The special permit may be issued only after public hearing
and upon determination that the proposed use is in compliance with
the conditions and limitations set forth in this Subsection A(10)(h).
A permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed two years and may
be revoked at any time by the Board of Trustees upon
noncompliance with the conditions set forth in this Subsection
A(10)(h) or the permit itself. A renewal permit may be issued
without fee for a period not to exceed two years.

[2]

The applicant for a special permit shall submit to the Board of
Trustees 14 copies of the application and such plans of the structure
and layout of the residence as the Board of Trustees deem necessary
to assure that the bed-and-breakfast usage complies with this
Subsection A(10)(h).

[3]

The applicant shall obtain and submit to the Board of Trustees
statements on the adequacy of the premises for purposes of safety,
fire protection and structural soundness from the Village Fire
Department and the Village Engineer. Such statements shall include
recommendations, if any, for improvements or changes deemed
advisable, which will be considered by the Board of Trustees in
determining the merits of the application.

[4]

The applicant shall be the owner of the premises and a full-time
resident of the premises.

[5]

Additions to the residence which increase the building perimeter
and/or height or in any other way alter the external appearance of
the residence shall not be permitted, and no special permit shall be
granted for any residence for which a variance has been granted
during the five-year period preceding the submission of the
application for a special permit.

[6]

The bedrooms and bathroom of the dwelling used for paying-guest
accommodations shall not exceed 33.3% of the existing habitable
floor area of the dwelling, and no more than two rooms shall be used
as bedrooms for paying guests.

[7]

No more than six guests per night shall be permitted in any bed-andbreakfast establishment, and the Board of Trustees may fix a lower
maximum in the permit. No paying guest shall stay on any one visit
for more than 15 days.

[8]

The residence in which a bed-and-breakfast establishment is
operated shall have a minimum of three off-street parking spaces,
and no permit shall be issued if a variance for off-street parking has
been granted within five years of the date of the application for
special permit.

[9]

The residence in which a bed-and-breakfast establishment is
operated shall not contain an accessory apartment.

[10]

The only meals to be furnished shall be one daily morning meal per paying
guest.

[11]

One sign designating a bed-and-breakfast establishment shall be permitted,
subject to the following conditions:
[a]

There shall be no signs other than those permitted in § 230-
44P(1)(d).

[12]

Any new owner of the residence in which a bed-and-breakfast establishment
is operated must apply to the Board of Trustees for a special permit to
continue a bed-and-breakfast use.

[13]

No two bed-and-breakfast establishments shall be permitted within 1,000
feet of each other.

[14]

The impact of a bed-and-breakfast establishment on the surrounding
neighbors shall be considered as a condition of the issuance of a special
permit.

B.

Prior to the issuance of a building permit or change of use or access permit, the site
development plan for any use permitted in this district shall be subject to approval by the
Planning Board or Board of Trustees, as relevant, in accordance with the provisions of
Article XI hereof.

§ 230-9.2 One-Family Residence RA-40 District.
In a One-Family Residence RA-40 District, no building or premises shall be used and no building
or part of a building shall be erected or altered which is arranged, intended or designed to be used,
in whole or in part, for any uses except the following:
A.

Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the
regulations therefor, with the exception that the sum of all areas covered by all principal
and accessory buildings shall not exceed 20% of the area of the lot

§ 230-10 One-Family Residence RA-25 District.
In a One-Family Residence RA-25 District, no building or premises shall be used and no
building or part of a building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used,
in whole or in part, for any purpose except the following:
A.

Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the
regulations therefor, with the exception that the sum of all areas covered by all principal
and accessory buildings shall not exceed 30% of the area of the lot.

§ 230-11 One-Family Residence RA-9 District.
In a One-Family Residence RA-9 District, no building or premises shall be used and no building
or part of a building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used, in whole
or in part, for any purpose except the following:
A.

Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the
regulations therefor, with the exception that the sum of all areas covered by all principal
and accessory buildings shall not exceed 35% of the area of the lot.

§ 230-12 One-Family Residence RA-5 District.

In a One-Family Residence RA-5 District, no building or premises shall be used and no building
or part of a building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used, in whole
or in part, for any purpose except the following:
A.

Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the
regulations therefor, with the exception that the sum of all areas covered by all principal
and accessory buildings shall not exceed 40% of the area of the lot.

§ 230-13 Two-Family Residence RB District.
In a Two-Family Residence RB District, no building or premises shall be used and no building or
part of a building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used, in whole or
in part, for any purpose except the following:
A.

Any use permitted in One-Family Residence RA-60 Districts and subject to all the
regulations therefor, with the exception that the sum of all areas covered by all principal
and accessory buildings shall not exceed 40% of the area of the lot.

B.
C.

Two-family dwellings.

Boarding- or rooming house in which not more than three persons, in addition to the
family residing therein, are housed or lodged for compensation, with or without meals.

§ 230-22 Waterfront Development (WD) District.
E.

Accessory uses. No accessory uses shall be permitted except for those which are deemed
by the Planning Board during the site development plan review process to be customarily
incidental to the permitted uses in § 230-22D(1) through (3) above and the following:
(1)

Customary home occupations in accordance with the requirements of § 230-
9.1A(10)(a) of this chapter

(2)

Professional offices or studios in accordance with the requirements of § 230-
9.1A(10)(b) of this chapter

(3)

Retail sales of items incidental to the conduct of nonresidential uses approved on
the final site development plan.

§ 230-33 One-Family RA-60, RA-40, RA-25, RA-9 and RA-5 Districts.
A.

Bulk and parking regulations for One-Family Districts. The bulk and parking regulations
for One-Family Residence Districts RA-60, RA-40, RA-25, RA-9 and RA-5 shall be as
follows: (See also Article II, Definitions; Article IV, District Use Regulations; Article VII,
Supplementary Regulations; and Article VIII, Off-Street Parking Facilities.)

For Uses In
Minimum Required
Lot area (square feet)
Lot width (feet)
Lot depth (feet)
Front yard (feet)
One side yard (feet)
Both side yards (feet)
Rear yard (feet)
Minimum habitable floor area
per dwelling unit
Total (square feet)
Main floor (square feet)
Off-street parking spaces per
dwelling unit
Maximum Permitted
Building height
Stories
Feet
Building coverage (percent)
Floor area ratio

RA-60
60,000
125
225
50
12
80
40

RA-40
40,000
75
200
25
8
80
30

RA-25
25,000
50
150
15
30
50
30

RA-9
9,375
75
125
50
30
30
25

RA-5
5,000
50
100
40
20
20
45

1,200
880

1,000
880

880
880

1,400
880

1,400
880

2

2

2

2

2

2 1/2
35
15
0.15

2 1/2
35
20
0.15

2 1/2
35
25
0.20

2 1/2
35
35
0.40

2 1/2
35
40
0.55

*NOTE: All permitted nonresidential uses shall conform to the regulations for such uses in
RA-60 Districts.

§ 230-40 Supplementary regulations applicable to residence districts.
G.

Existing small lots in all RA and RB Districts.
(1)

Less than required area or width. A lot owned individually and separately on
January 22, 1962, and owned individually and separately at all times thereafter,
which has a total area or width less than prescribed herein, may be used for a onefamily residence in RA and RB Districts and a two-family residence in RB
Districts, provided that such a lot shall be developed in conformity with all
applicable district regulations other than the minimum lot area and lot width
requirements, and with the minimum side yards set forth below:
For Lots With a Width
of:

Less
Than
(feet)

At Least or
More Than
(feet)

Total of Both
Minimum Side Side Yards
Yard (feet)
(feet)

For one-family
residence in:
RA-60
RA-40
RA-25
RA-9
RA-5
RB
For two-family
residences in:
RB

125
100
75
50
45

125
100
75
50
45

20
15
8
5
5

20
20
13
13

§ 230-44 Signs.
District standards. The following signage shall be permitted within the districts listed
below and shall be regulated therein, as follows. Said signage shall also conform to the
provisions of Subsections A through O above, as qualified in Subsection B.
(1)

One-Family Residence RA-60, RA-40, RA-25, RA-9, RA-5 Districts; Two-Family Residence RB District; Multiple Residence RC District.
(e)

Signs conforming to the following shall be permitted as accessory
[2]

One externally illuminated bulletin board or other announcement
sign for educational or religious institutions permitted in § 230-
9.1A(4) of this chapter, with an area of not over 12 square feet.

§ 230-171 Certificate of occupancy.
B.

No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any use of a building or of land allowed
by special permit as specified in §§ 230-9.1 and 230-162B of this chapter unless and until
such special permit has been duly issued by said Board. Every certificate of occupancy
for which a special permit has been issued or in connection with which a variance has
been granted shall contain a detailed statement of such special permit or variance and of
any conditions to which the same is subject.

Section 3. Village Code Schedule 230 B, "Schedule of Uses," adopted pursuant to
Village Code Section 230-5(A) is hereby amended to reference the new RA-60 District regulations
as follows:

230 Attachment B
Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Schedule of Uses

Please note: All information contained in the zoning schedules is designed to supplement and summarize the
information contained in the zoning text. At all times, the zoning text prevails over the zoning schedules.
District/Code Section

(Added 1-31-2005 by L.L. No. 1-2005; Amended X-XX-2010 by L.L. X-2010)
Permitted Principal Uses

Special Permit Uses

Accessory Uses

1. One-family detached dwellings
2. Municipal buildings, structures, and uses
3. Raising of field and garden crops,
vineyard and orchard farming,
maintenance of nurseries and seasonal
sale of products (no building may be
erected)

1. Places of worship and parish houses, schools,
philanthropic and eleemosynary institutions,
hospitals and sanitariums, nursing and
convalescent homes, or homes for the aged*
2. Libraries
3. Arboretums
4. Railroad and public utility rights-of way and
structures
5. Annual membership clubs
6. Operation, maintenance and preservation of
historic sites, buildings, restorations, and
landmarks
7. Funeral homes
8. Day-care centers, as accessories to principal
uses
9. Bed-and-breakfast establishments as
accessories to principal use

1. Customary home occupations
2. Professional offices and studios
3. Garden house, tool house, playhouse,
greenhouse or swimming pool
4. Private garage for residents and leasing
(not more than one space) to nonresidents
5. Roomers/boarders (not more than one)
6. Domestic animals

Any use permitted in RA-60 RA-40
districts
Two-family dwellings
Boarding- or rooming house, with not
more than three persons in addition to
residing family

Any special permit use permitted in RA-60 RA-
40 districts

Any accessory use permitted in RA-60 RA-
40 districts

1. All RA-9 and RB uses
2. One office or studio per 20 d.u.
3. Dwelling for three or more families: lot
under single owner

Any special permit use permitted in RA-60 RA-
40 districts

Any accessory use permitted in RA-60 RA-
40 districts

Residential Districts
RA-60/§230-9.1
One-Family Residence

RA-9/§230-11
RA-5/§230-12
RB/§230-14
Multiple Residence

230 Attachment B:1

xx-xx-2010

District/Code
Section

Any use permitted in RB districts
Business and professional offices, and
research, design and development
laboratories

Special uses permitted in RA-40 RA-60 districts

Any accessory uses permitted in RB
districts
Accessory uses to business and
professional offices, research, design and
development laboratories

1. Business and professional offices,
showrooms, and research, design and
development laboratories, including
clinics, cafeterias, and recreational
facilities for exclusive use of company
employees
2. Manufacturing, assembling, converting,
altering, finishing, cleaning or other
processing or products, not using more
than 40% of total floor area

Special uses permitted in RA-40 RA-60 districts

None

1. Retail stores and banks
2. Personal service establishments
3. Business, professional or government
offices
4. Service establishments of a nonpersonal
nature
5. Theaters and restaurants
6. Outlets and pickup stations for laundries
and cleaning establishments
7. Newspaper printing
8. Schools and places of worship
9. Signs accessory to an establishment

1. Light manufacturing, assembling, converting,
altering, finishing, cleaning or other
processing of products where goods are sold
on and off the premises
2. Social clubs or other nonprofit organizations
3. Public utility structures
4. Day-care centers
5. Mixed-occupancy, in accordance with § 230-
42.1

Any use permitted in C-1 districts, except
retail stores

1. Retail stores
2. Motor vehicle service stations
3. Social clubs or other nonprofit organizations
4. Bowling alleys, billiards halls, miniature golf
courses and similar amusement
establishments
5. Storage or repair garages
6. Animal hospitals
7. Hotels or inns

Office Districts
O-1/§230-15
Limited Office

O-2/§230-15
Limited Office

Commercial Districts
C-1/§230-16
Central Commercial

C-2/§230-17
General Commercial

District/Code
Section

230 Attachment B:2

Permitted Principal Uses

Special Permit Uses

Accessory Uses

Waterfront
Development District
WD/§230-22.D and
230-22.E

1. Recreational uses:
- Swimming, waterskiing, fishing,
sailing and boating
- Ice skating
- Tennis, platform tennis and other
racquet sports, handball, basketball
and other similar sports
- Picnic areas, playgrounds and trails
2. Residential uses:
- Attached or detached single-family
dwellings
- Two-family dwellings
- Multiple-family dwellings
- Recreational and public assembly
facilities associated with residential
development

1. Restaurants
2. Marinas and yacht clubs
3. Ferry terminals
4. Docks and piers for any permitted uses under
this section
5. Repair facilities for recreational boats
6. Public utilities
7. Municipal facilities, subject to § 230-45
8. Cultural uses:
- Performing arts theaters
- Temporary art, craft and educational
exhibits
- Band shells
- Museums

None

1. Customary home occupations in
accordance with § 230-9.1A(10)(a)
2. Professional offices or studios in
accordance with § 230-9.1A(10)(b)
3. Retail sales of items incidental to conduct
of nonresidential uses approved on final site
development plan

NOTES:
See §