---
title: "Local Law 2-2009: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2009-05-20
---

Local Law 2-2009
Filed: 2009-05-20

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing
(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County

City
Town
Village

Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 2 of the year 2009

A local law amending Chapter 168 to identify permitted users of Village Parks and Recreation areas
(insert Title)
and to prohibit sales within Village Parks and Recreation areas.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
of the
County
City
Town
Village
of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section One. Section 168-5 of Chapter 168 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is amended to read as
follows:
§ 168-5. Use limited to residents except in specified parks and recreation areas.
Use of the aforesaid facilities shall be limited to residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, except in Croton
Landing Park, Manes Field, and Fireman's Field or as authorized by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson.
Section Two. Section 168-8 of Chapter 168 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is amended by revising
the introductory clause and by adding the following paragraph (K) as follows:
§ 168-8. Prohibited acts.
No person, within any park, playground, beach or other recreation area of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, shall:

(K) Sell or offer for sale any food, goods, wares or merchandise, except as authorized by the Village Board of
Trustees.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 1 of 3

(Local Law No. 2 of the year 2009, page 2)

Section Three. Chapter 168 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is amended by
adding the following section:
§ 168-10. Penalties for offenses; enforcement.
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute an offense punishable by a fine not to
exceed 250.00 dollars for each and every such offense.
Section Four. Severability.
Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Local Law be declared
unconstitutional or invalid for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of
said law shall not be affected thereby.
Section Five. This local law shall take effect upon filing by the Secretary of State.
[END]

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 2 of 2009
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Board of Trustees on May 4, 2009, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on . 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on . 20 , and was (approved)( not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on 20 .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general) (special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on 20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be none,
the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the
power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 2 of 3

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 20, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November, 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors ofthe towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and ofthe whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Date: 5-19-09

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or other
authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF Westchester
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings have been
had or taken for the enactment ofthe local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title
Village of Croton on Hudson

Date: 5/19/09

Page 3 of 3

On motion of TRUSTEE Gallelli, seconded by TRUSTEE Restuccia, the following
resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York:
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees would like to identify permitted users of
Village Parks and Recreation area and prohibit sales within Village Parks and Recreations
area unless authorized by the Village Board; and,
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2009 has been drafted amending Chapter
168 Sections 5, 8, 10 of the Village Code to limit the use of specified Village Parks and
Recreation areas to residents only and prohibit sales of food, goods, wares or
merchandise, unless authorized by the Village Board; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was held and closed on May 4, 2009,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law No. 2 of 2009, amending Chapter 168, Sections 5, 8 and 10, ofthe
Village Code.
Date: May 4, 2009
State of New York
County of Westchester

)
ss:
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy
of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees of said Village held on May 4, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
the said Village this 08th day of May, 2009.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
