---
title: "Local Law 3-2023: TOAMEND CHAPTER 86 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2023-04-25
---

Local Law 3-2023
Filed: 2023-04-25
TOAMEND CHAPTER 86 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO AMEND ARTICLE 1 BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION TO PROVIDE FOR THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE NEW YORK STATE UNIFORM FIRE PREVENTIONAND BUILDING CODE

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

/ nni=il I i^\A/ F i l i n n
LUCdl L d W

Albany, NY 122310001

r i l i n g

www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
itaiics or undedining to indicate new matter.
FILED
DCounty D C i t y D T o w n DVillage
STATERECORDS
(Selectone:}

_ «•

of CrCon-on-Hudson

_,

APR 2 6^023

Local Law No.

03

of the year 2023

A local law

AMEND CHAPTER 86 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION OF THE THE CODE OF THE
(Insert Title)

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO AMEND ARTICLE 1 BUILDING CODE
ADMINISTRATION TO PROVIDE FOR THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFOREMENT
OF THE NEWYORK STATE UNtFORM FIRE PREVENTION AND BUILDING CODE
Be it enacted by the ^'"^9^ ^^^^^ of Trustees

^^^y^^

(Name of Legislative Body)

DCounty

DCity

DTown

DVillage

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as foliows:

see attached.

(If additionai space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 03-2023
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 86 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION OF THE
CODE OF T H E V I L L A G E OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO AMEND ARTICLE I
BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION TO PROVIDE FOR THE ADMINISTRATION
AND ENFOREMENT OF THE NEW YORK STATE UNIFORM F I R E PREVENTION
AND BUILDING CODE
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Chapter 86, Building Construction, of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to revise Article I, Building Code Administration, to read as follows:

Article I: Building Code Administration
§ 86-1. Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
VILLAGE ENGINEER
The village official designated to head the Engineering Department for the Village of Croton-onHudson in accordance with § 86-2. The term "Village Engineer" shall include his designee
authorized to administer the provisions of this chapter
§ 86-2, Engineering Department established.
A. There is hereby established in the Viilage of Croton-on-Hudson a Department to be
designated as the " Engineering Department" for the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of all laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders applicable to the location,
design, materials, construction, alteration, repair, equipment, maintenance, use, occupancy,
removal and demolition ofbuildings and structures and their appurtenances located in the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
B. The Engineering Department shall be headed by a village official designated as the "Village
Engineer."
§ 86-3. Appointments and qualifications of ViUage Engineer.
A. The Village Engineer shall be a person who shall be a graduate of a recognized college or
university with a bachelor's degree in engineering or architecture and shall have had at least
five years' experience as an engineer or architect, building inspector, building contractor

or supervisor of building construction and possess a professional engineer's or architect's
license. The Village Engineer shall, within the time prescribed by law, obtain such basic
training, in-service training, advanced in-service training, and other training as the State of
New York shall require for code enforcement personnel, and the Village Engineer shall
obtain certificationfi"omthe Department of State pursuant to the Executive Law and the
regulations promulgated thereunder.
B. The Village Engineer shall be appointed by the Village Manager at a compensafion to be
fixed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 86-4. Assistant Village Engineers; Acting Engineer; other employeesA. Assistant Village Engineer.
(1) The Village Manager may appoint one or more assistants to the Village Engineer, as
the need may appear, to exercise, pursuant to the provisions of this Article, any or all
of the duties of the Village Engineer as may be delegated to such assistants by the
Village Engineer. The compensation of such assistants shall be fixed by the Board of
Trustees.

(2) Each assistant shall be a person who has had at least three years of practical experience
in the design or constmction ofbuildings or in the design, construction or installation
of plumbing, heating or electrical equipment or shall have the same qualifications as
are required for the office of Village Engineer. Each assistant shall, within the time
prescribed by law, obtain such basic training, in-service training, advanced in-service
training, and other training as the State ofNew York shall require for code enforcement
personnel, and each Inspector shall obtain certification from the Department of State
pursuant to the Executive Law and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
B. Acting Village Engineer. In the absence of the Village Engineer or in the case of his
inability to act for any reason, the Manager shall have the power, with the approval of the
Board of Trustees, to designate a person to act in his behalf and to exercise all of the powers
conferred upon him by this Article; provided, however, that no such designation shall be
made for periods aggregating more than 60 days during any year, nor shall an Acting
Village Engineer be designated for periods aggregating more than 60 days when the office
of Village Engineer is vacant, unless the person so designated shall possess the
qualifications prescribed by § 86-3A.
C. Fire Inspector. The Fire Inspector for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or his designee may
exercise, pursuant to the provisions of this Article, any or all ofthe duties ofthe Village
Engineer as may be designated to such assistants by the Village Engineer.

D. Other employees. The Village Manager may appoint such other employees as may be
required from time to time by the Village Engineer to carry out the functions of the
Engineering Department.
§ 86-5. Restrictions on Department employees.
No officer or employee of the Engineering Department shall engage in activity
inconsistent with his dufies or with the interests of said office, nor shall he, during the
term of his employment, be engaged directly or indirectly in any building business, in the
fumishing of labor, materials or appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance
of a building or the preparafion of plans or specifications thereof within the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, excepting only that this provision shall not prohibit any employee
from such activities in connection with the construction of a building or structure for his
own occupancy owned by him.
§ 86-6, ReUef from personal Uability.
No official or employee ofthe Engineering Department shall, while acting within the
scope of his duties pursuant to the provisions of this Article, be personally liable for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as the result of any act required or
permitted in the discharge of his official duties, provided that such acts are performed in
good faith and without gross negligence.
§ 86-7. Powers and duties of Viilage Engineer.
A. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, ordinance or regulation or except as
herein otherwise provided, the Village Engineer shall administer and enforce all of the
provisions of laws, ordinances and regulations applicable to the construction, alteration,
repair, removal and demolition of buildings and structures and the installation and use of
materials and equipment therein and the location, use, occupancy and maintenance thereof,
pursuant to the provisions of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building
Code (the "Uniform Code") and State Energy Conservation Construction Code (the
"Energy Code") and all other applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
B. He shall receive applications and issue permits for the erection, alteration, removal and
demolition of buildings or structures or parts thereof and shall examine the premises for
which such applications have been received or such permits have been issued for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with laws, ordinances and regulations goveming building
constmction, as set forth by the latest amended copy of the Energy Code. He shall receive
applications for sand bank and other excavations and issue permits ensuring compliance
with ordinances goveming said type of excavations, except as may be otherwise
specifically provided by law, ordinance or regulation.
C. He shall issue all appropriate notices or orders to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to
require the necessary safeguards during constmction and to ensure compliance during the
entire course of constmction with the requirements of such laws, ordinances or regulations.

He shall make all inspections which are necessary or proper for the carrying out of his
duties, except that he may accept written reports of inspection from Assistant Village
Engineers or other employees of the Engineering Department or from generally recognized
and authoritative service and inspection bureaus, provided that the same are certified by a
responsible official thereof
D. "Whenever the same may be necessary or appropriate to assure compliance with the
provisions of applicable laws, ordinances or regulations covering building constmction as
set forth by the latest amended copy of the Energy Code, he may require the perfonnance
of tests in the field by experienced professional persons or by accredited and authoritative
testing laboratories or service bureaus or agencies.
E. If deemed necessary, he may obtain such engineering assistance as he may require to ensure
an accurate inspection of building plans and specifications, and the cost for such services
shall be borne by the applicant.
F. The Village Engineer shall review and investigate complaints which allege or assert the
existence of conditions or activities that fail to comply with the Uniform Code, Energy
Code, this local law, or any other local law, ordinance or regulation adopted for
administration and enforcement ofthe Uniform Code or Energy Code. The process for
responding to a complaint shall include such of the following steps as the Village
Engineer may deem to be appropriate:
1. performing an inspection of the conditions and/or activities alleged to be in
violation, and documenting the results of such inspection;
2. if a violation is found to exist, providing the owner of the affected property
and any other Person who may be responsible for the violation with notice of
the violation and opportunity to abate, correct or cure the violation, or
otherwise proceeding in the manner described in § 86-29 of this local law;
3. if appropriate, issuing a stop work order;
4. if a violation which was found to exist is abated or corrected, performing an
inspection to ensure that the violation has been abated or corrected, preparing
a final written report refiecting such abatement or correction, and filing such
report with the complaint.

G. Local energy conservation construction code.
1. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, the Village of Croton-onHudson hereby adopts, as its local energy conservation constmction code, the State
Energy Code as modified in the manner contemplated by NYStretch. Such local
energy conservation construction code shall consist ofthe provisions currently set
forth in Part 1240 and in the publications currently incorporated by reference in Part
4

1240; provided, however, that the 2020 ECCCNYS and ASHRAE 90.1-2016 shall be
deemed to be modified as follows:
a. In each case where a section, table, or appendix in the 2018 IECC is modified
by NYStretch, the corresponding section, table, or appendix in the 2020
ECCCNYS shall be deemed to be modified in the same manner;
b. In each case where a section, table, or appendix is added to the 2018 IECC by
NYStretch, such section, table, or appendix shall be deemed to be added to the
2020 ECCCNYS subject to the following exception:
i. Section R403.6.2, which is added to file 2018 IECC by Section 3.11 of
NYStretch, shall not be deemed to be added to the 2020ECCCNYS;
c. Each section or table in ASHRAE 90.1 -2016 that is modified by NYStretch
shall be deemed to be so modified; and
d. Each section added to ASHRAE 90.1 -2016 by NYStretch shall be deemed to
be added to ASHRAE 90.1-2016.
2. A copy of NYStretch is annexed hereto and made part hereof.
§ 86-8, Department records and reports; program review and reporting.
A. The Village Engineer shall keep permanent official records of all transactions and activities
ofthe Engineering Department, including all applications received, permits and certificates
issued, fees charged and collected, inspection reports and notices and orders issued. Where
feasible, such records shall be permanently bound. Such applications, permits and
certificates shall be numbered consecutively. All such records shall be public records open
to public inspection during business hours.
B. The Village Engineer shall annually submit to the Board of Trustees a written report and
summary of all business conducted by the Engineering Department, including permits and
certificates issued, fees collected, orders and notices promulgated, inspections and tests
made and appeals or litigation pending.
C. The Village Engineer shall make a report to the Board of Tmstees once each month, or
more often i f directed by the Board of Trustees, including a statement of pennits and
certificates issued or refused, fees paid and orders promulgated, zoning violations and
action taken with respect thereto and such other matters as the Board of Tmstees may
request.
D. The Village Engineer shall annually submit to the Secretary of State, on behalf of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, on a form prescribed by the Secretary of State, a report of
the activities of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson relative to administration and
enforcement ofthe Umform Code^
E. The Village Engineer shall, upon request of the New York State Department of State,
provide to the New York State Department of State, tme and complete copies ofthe records
and related materials the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is required to maintain; tme and

complete copies of such portion of such records and related materials as may be requested
by the Department of State; and/or such excerpts, summaries, tabulations, statistics, and
other information and accounts of its activhies in connection with administration and
enforcement of the Uniform Code and/or Energy Code as may be requested by the
Department of State.
§ 86-9. Cooperation of other departments.
The Village Engineer may request and shall receive, so far as may be necessary in the discharge
of his duties, the assistance and cooperation of the Police and Fire Departments and of all other
village officials exercising any jurisdiction over the constmction, use or occupancy ofbuildings or
the installation of equipment therein.
§ 86-10. Building permits required; application.
A. No person, firm or corporation shall commence any work which must conform to the
Uniform Code and/or the Energy Code, including, but not limited to, the erection,
construction, enlargement, alteration, removal, improvement, demolition, conversion or
change in the nature of the occupancy of any building or stmcture or cause the same to be
done without first obtaining a separate building permitfi-omthe Engineering Department
for each sueh building or stmcture
B. No building permit shall be required for
1. The performance of ordinary repairs, provided that the work does not have an
impact on fire and life safety, such as:
i. Any part of the structural system;
ii. The required means of egress; or
iii. The fire protection system or the removal from service of any part of the
fire protection for any period of time.
2. The constmction or installation of one-story detached stmctures associated with
one- or two-family dwellings or multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses),
which are used for tool and storage sheds, playhouses, or similar uses, provided
the gross floor area does not exceed 20 square feet.
C. Application for a building permit shall be made to the Village Engineer on forms
provided by the Engineering Department and shall contain the following information:
1. A description of the land on which the proposed work is to be done, including
section, block and lot numbers, if any.
2. A statement of the use or occupancy of all parts of the land and of the building
or structure
3. The valuation of the proposed work.
4. The full name and address ofthe owner and ofthe applicant and the names
and addresses of their responsible officers if any of them are corporations.

5. A brief description of the nature, location, extent, and scope of the proposed
work.
6. A duplicate set of plans and specifications set forth in Subsection E of this
section.
7. Where applicable, a statement of special inspections to be prepared in
accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Code.
8. Such other information and documentation as may reasonably be required by
the Village Engineer to establish compliance of the proposed work with the
requirements of applicable building laws, including the Uniform Code and
Energy Code, ordinances and regulations.
D. Applications shall be made by the owner or lessee or agent of either or by the architect,
engineer or building contractor employed in connection with the proposed work. Where
such application is made by a person other than the owner, it shall be accompanied by an
affidavit ofthe owner or applicant that the proposed work is authorized by the owner and
that the applicant is authorized to make such application.
E. Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by triplicate (3) copies of
plans and specifications including but not limited to the following, where applicable:
1. Describing the location, nature, extent and scope of the proposed work and the
materials to be incorporated;
2. Showing that the proposed work will conform to the applicable provisions of the
Uniform Code and Energy Code;
3. Showing the location, constmction, size, and character of all portions of the
means of egress;
4. Showing a representation of the building thermal envelope;
5. Showing stmctural information including but not limited to braced wall designs;
the size, section and relative locations of stmctural members; design loads; and
other pertinent structural information;
6. Showing the proposed structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fireprotection, and other service systems of the building;
7. A vvritten statement indicating compliance with the Energy Code;
8. A site plan, dravm to scale and in accordance with an accurate boundary survey,
showing the size and location of new constmction and existing structures and
appurtenances on the site; distances from the lot lines; the established street
grades and the proposed finished grades; and, as applicable, flood hazard areas,
floodways, and design flood elevations;
9. _Evidence that the plans and specifications were prepared by a licensed and
registered architect in accordance with Article 147 of the New York State
Education Law or a licensed and registered professional engineer in accordance
with Article 145 ofthe New York State Education law and practice guidelines,
including but not limited to the design professional's seal which clearly and
7

legibly shows both the design professional's name and license number, and is
signed by the design professional whose name appears on the seal in such a
manner that neither the name nor the number is obscured in any way, the design
professional's registration expiration date, the design professional's firm name (if
not a sole practitioner), and, ifthe documents are submitted by a professional
engineering firm and not a sole practitioner professional engineer, the firm's
Certificate of Authorization number; and
10. All other information and documentation that the Village Engineer may deem
necessary to allow the Village Engineer to determine that the proposed work
conforms to the Uniform Code, Energy Code, and all other ordinances and
regulations.
Plans and specifications which are accepted as part of the application for a building
permit shall be marked as accepted by the Village Engineer in writing or by stamp, or in
the case of electronic media, an electronic marking. One or more complete sets of
approved plans and specifications and other submittal documents shall be retained by the
Village Engineer. Two complete sets shall be retumed to the applicant to be available at
the work site for use by the Village Engineer. The retum of a set of approved plans and
specifications to the applicant shall not be construed as an authorization to commence
work, nor as an indication that a building permit will be issued. Work shall not
commence until and unless a building permit is issued.
F. _All work shall be performed in accordance with the plans and specifications which were
submitted v^dth and accepted as part ofthe application for the building permit. The
building permit shall contain such a directive. The Permit Holder shall immediately
notify the Village Engineer of any change occurring during the course of work. The
building permit shall contain such a directive. If the Village Engineer determines that
such change warrants a new or amended building permit, such change shall not be made
until and unless a new or amended building permit reflecting such change is issued.
G. An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been
abandoned upon the lapse of 90 days after the date of filing unless a permit has been
issued before the expiration of that period. The Village Engineer may grant, for
reasonable cause, one or more extensions of time for additional periods not exceeding 90
days each.
H. In the case of any parcel of property for which site plan approval would be required for
issuance of a building permit, no person, firm or corporation shall effect any change in
the nature of use of property used or occupied by it or extend or change the use thereof or
change the access from said parcel of property to a street or streets or cause any of the
same to be done or continue in effect any such change of use or access effected after May
18, 1964, without first obtaining a change of use or access permit from the Engineering
Department. The fee shall be in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Tmstees,

except that, where site plan approval is independently required in connection with
obtaining a building permit, no separate change of use or access permit shall be required
or fee charged. The provisions of this Article, and particularly those of §§ 86-10, 86-11,
86-12,86-14 through 86-19 and 86-24, shall, to the extent applicable, apply to a change
of use or access permit as to a building permit.
I.

Payment of taxes and other payments required. No permits, variances, licenses,
subdivision or other approvals or authorizations shall be issued, no applications therefor
shall be considered, and no informal preliminary review or other procedure in relation
thereto shall be conducted by the Village Board, the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of
Appeals, the Building Inspector or any other board, commission or agency of the village,
with respect to any premises within the village, unless and until all amounts due the
village on said premises in real estate taxes, special assessments and any other payments,
chargeable to the owner or possessor of said premises, together with all penalties and
interest thereon, shall have been paid in full. The Village Board reserves the right to
waive any and all of the above conditions as deemed necessary to fit special
circumstances.

§ 86-lL Issuance or denial of building permits; display of permit required.
A. The Village Engineer shall examine or cause to be examined all applications for permits
and the plans, specifications and documents filed therewith to ascertain whether the
proposed work is in compliance with the applicable requirements of the Uniform Code,
Energy Code, and all other ordinances and regulations. He shall approve or disapprove
the application within a reasonable time.
B. If the application, together with plans, specifications and other documents filed therewith,
describes proposed work which does not conform to all of the requirements ofthe
applicable building regulations, including the Uniform Code and Energy Code, the
Village Engineer shall disapprove the same and shall return the plans and specifications
to the applicant. Upon the request of the applicant, the Village Engineer shall cause such
refiisal, together with the reasons therefor, to be transmitted to the applicant in writing.
C. Building permits shall be visibly displayed at the work site and shall remain visible until
the authorized work has been completed.
§ 86-12. Expiration of permits.
A. A building permit shall be effective to authorize the commencing of work in accordance
with the application, plans and specifications on which it is based for a period of six
months after the date of its issuance. For good cause shown, and provided that there shall
have been no material change in applicable laws, ordinances or regulations or in
conditions immediately affecting the vicinity in which the property to which the permit

relates is located, the Village Engineer may allow one extension of time for an additional
period of three months. The three-month permit extension shall require a fee in an
amount determined by a fee schedule established by resolution of the Board of Tmstees.
B. All permits issued under this article shall be void and of no effect after six months from
the date of issue thereof (or nine months from the date of issue thereof if the permit has
been extended), unless the work for which the permit was issued has been actually
commenced and not been abandoned during that period. If any permit becomes void as
herein provided, 1/2 of the fee paid for such permit, not including any special fee
covering examination of plans of a stmcture of complex design, may be refunded to the
person who obtained the permit, provided that no work has been commenced and an
application for refund is made within the six- or nine-month period, but in no case shall
refunds be made on fees based on a construction of less than $1,000; and provided,
further, that, notwithstanding any other provision hereof, all permits shall expire two
years from the date of issuance unless the proposed work has been completed and a
certificate of occupancy has been issued or unless such permit is extended by the Village
Engineer in accordance with Section A above.
C. The issuance of a building permit shall constitute authority to the applicant to proceed
with the work in accordance with the approved plans and specifications and in
accordance with the applicable building laws, ordinances or regulations. All work shall
conform to the approved application, plans and specifications, except that no building
permit shall be valid insofar as it authorized the performance of work or the use of
materials which are not in accordance with the requirements of the applicable building
regulations and village ordinances.
D. Buildings or structures subject to the provisions of this article hereafter erected without a
permit shall be removed at the expense ofthe owner, if so ordered by the Board of
Trustees.
§ 86-13. Building Permit fees.
A. Upon the filing of an application for a building permit, the applicant shall pay a fee
therefor in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Tmstees, based on the total
valuation ofthe proposed work.
B. The term "valuation" shall mean the reasonable value, as determined by the Village
Engineer, of all services, labor, materials and use of equipment, scaffolding and other
appliances entering into and necessary for the prosecution of the work; except that the
cost of grading, landscaping and decorating or other work intended only for
embellishment shall not be deemed part ofthe cost.
C. In the event that an application for a building permit is not approved, the applicant shall
be entitled to a refund of 50% ofthe fee paid, provided that no constmction has been
10

commenced. If constmction work has been started and the application is not approved,
the fees paid shall not be refunded.

§ 86-14. Revocation of permits.
Ifthe Village Engineer determines that a building permit was issued in error because of incorrect,
inaccurate or incomplete information, or that the work for which a building permit was issued
violates the Uniform Code or Energy Code, or any other ordinance or regulation, the Village
Engineer shall revoke the building permit or suspend the building permit until such time as the
Permit Holder demonstrates that all work completed and all work proposed shall be in
compliance with applicable provisions ofthe Uniform Code, Energy Code, and all other
ordinances and regulations.
The Village Engineer may revoke a building permit therefore issued and approved where the
Permit Holder fails or refuses to comply with a stop order issued by the Village Engineer
§ 86-15. Construction inspections.
A. Work shall remain accessible and exposed until inspected and accepted by the Village
Engineer. The Permit Holder shall notify the Village Engineer when any element of work
described in subdivision B of this section is ready for inspection.
B. The following elements of the constmction process shall be inspected, where applicable.
1. Work site prior to the issuance of a building permit;
2. Inspection of soil-bearing conditions for suitable bearing and checking proposed
stmcture for front and side yard requirements as per applicable zoning
regulations.
3. Footing and foundation;
4. Preparation for concrete slab;
5. Framing, before inside finish is completed;
6. Stmctural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical,fire-protectionand other similar
service systems of the building;
7. Fire resistant construction;
8. Fire resistant penetrations;
9. Solid fuel buming heating appliances, chimneys, flues, or gas vents;
10. inspections required to demonstrate Energy Code compliance, including but not
limited to insulation, fenestration, air leakage, system controls, mechanical
equipment size, and, where required, minimum fan efficiencies, programmable
thermostats, energy recovery, whole-house ventilation, plumbing heat traps, and
high-performance lighting and controls;
11. Installation, connection, and assembly of factor manufactured buildings and
manufactured homes; and
12. A final inspection after all work authorized by the building permit has been
completed.
11

C. At the discretion ofthe Village Engineer authorized to perform constmction inspections,
a remote inspection may be performed in lieu of an in-person inspection when, in the
opinion ofthe Village Engineer, the remote inspection can be performed to the same
level and quality as an in-person inspection and the remote inspection shows to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer or by such authorized Inspector that the elements of
the constmction process conform with the applicable requirements of the Uniform Code
and Energy Code. Should a remote inspection not afford the Village Engineer sufficient
infonnation to make a determination, an in-person inspection shall be performed.
D. After inspection, the work or a portion thereof shall be noted as satisfactory as completed,
or the Permit Holder shall be notified as to the marmer in which the work fails to comply
with the Uniform Code, Energy Code, or any other regulation or ordinance, including a
citation to the specific code provision or provisions that have not been met. Work not in
compliance with any applicable provision of the Uniform Code, Energy Code, or any
other regulation or ordinance shall remain exposed until such work shall have been
brought into compliance with applicable portions of the Uniform Code, Energy Code, or
any other regulation or ordinance, reinspected, and found satisfactory as completed.
§ 86-16. Stop work orders.
Whenever the Village Engineer has reasonable grounds to believe that work on any
building or stmcture is being prosecuted in violation of the provisions of the Uniform
Code, Energy Code, and applicable building laws, ordinances or regulations or not in
conformity with the provisions of an application, plans or specifications on the basis of
which a building permit was issued or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, he shall notify
the owner of the property or the owner's agent or the person performing the work to
suspend all work, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work and suspend all
building activities until the stop order has been rescinded. Such order and notice shall be
in writing, shall state the conditions under which the work may be resumed and may be
served upon a person to whom it is directed either by delivering it personally to him or by
posting the same upon a conspicuous portion of the buiiding under constmction and
sending a copy of the same to such person by registered or certified mail at the address
listed on the application.
§ 86-17. Right of entry.
A. The Village Engineer, in the discharge of his duties, shall have the authority to enter any
building or stmcture or premises at any reasonable hour with the consent of the person in
possession or oeeupancy.
B. If admission is refused or carmot by obtained from the person, in possession or
occupancy, the Village Engineer shall be authorized to obtain a warrant to make an
inspection, provided probable cause is shown.
12

C. In case o f an emergency, the Village Engineer may, without a warrant, enter any
premises, or parts of premises, to inspect the same, at any time, without the permission of
the person in possession or occupancy.

§ 86-18, Certificate of occupancy required.
A. No building hereafter erected shall be used or occupied in whole or in part until a
certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Village Engineer.
B. No building hereafter enlarged, extended or altered or upon which work has been
performed which required the issuance of a building permit shall continue to be occupied
or used for more than 30 days after the completion of the alteration or work unless a
certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Village Engineer.
C. No change shall be made in the use or type of occupancy of an existing building unless a
certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Village Engineer.

§ 86-19. Inspections; issuance of certificates; temporary certificates.
A. Inspection prior to issuance.
1. Before issuing a certificate of occupancy, the Village Engineer shall examine or
cause to be examined all buildings, stmctures and sites for which an application
has been filed for a building permit to constmct, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
demolish or change the use or occupancy, and he may conduct such inspections as
he deems appropriate from time to time during and upon completion of the work
for which a building permit has been issued.
2. Where applicable, the following documents prepared in accordance with the
provisions ofthe Uniform Code by such person or persons as may be designated
by or otherwise acceptable to the Village Engineer, at the expense of the applicant
for the certificate of occupancy, shall be provided to the Village Engineer prior to
the issuance ofthe certificate of occupancy:
i . a written statement of structural observations and/or a fmal report of
special inspections,
ii. flood hazard certifications,
iii. a written statement of the results of tests performed to show compliance
with the Energy Code, and
iv. where applicable, the affixation of the appropriate seals, insignias, and
manufacturer's data plates as required for factory manufactured buildings
and/or manufactured homes

13

3. There shall be maintained in the Engineering Department a record of all such
examinations and inspections, together with a record of findings of violations of
the law.
B. Issuance of certificate of occupancy.
1. When, after final inspection, it is found that the proposed work has been
completed in accordance with the Uniform Code, Energy Code, and all other
applicable buildings laws, ordinances and regulations and also in accordance with
the application, plans and specifications filed in connection with the issuance of
the building permit, the Village Engineer shall issue a certificate of occupancy
upon the form provided by him. If it is found that the proposed work has not been
properly completed, the Village Engineer shall refuse to issue a certificate of
occupancy and shall order the work completed in conformity with the building
permit and in conformity with the applicable building regulations as set forth by
the Uniform Code and Energy Code.
2. The certificate of occupancy shall certify that the work has been completed and
that the proposed use and occupancy is in conformity with the provisions of the
applicable building laws, ordinances and regulations and contain the following
information:
i . The building permit number, i f any;
i i . The date of issuance of the building permit, i f any;
iii. The name (if any), address and tax map number of the property;
iv. I f t h e certificate of occupancy is not applicable to an entire structure, a
description of that portion of the stmcture for which the certificate of
occupancy is issued;
v. The use and occupancy classification of the stmcture;
vi. The type ofconstmction of the stmcture;
vii. The occupant load of the assembly areas of the structure, i f any;
viii. Any special conditions imposed in connection with the issuance ofthe
building permit; and
ix. The signature of the Village Engineer issuing the certificate of occupancy
and the date ofissuance.
3. Any change in the nature of use of any parcel of property or extension or change
in the present area of use or change in the access from the parcel of property to a
street or streets for which a change of use or access permit is required under § 8691 OH above or the continuance of any such change of use or access effected after
May 18, 1964, shall require anew certificate of occupancy, which shall be
granted only i f the conditions of the foregoing Subsection A(l) and (2) are met,
including the obtaining of the use or access permit in question.

14

4. A fee in the amount set by resolution ofthe Board of Trustees shall be paid at the
time of applying for each certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of
occupancy.
C. Temporary certificate of occupancy. Upon request, the Village Engineer may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy for a building or structure or part thereof before the
entire work covered by the building permit shall have been completed, provided that {1}
such portion or portions as have been completed may be occupied safely without
endangering life or the public welfarei.(2) that any required fire and life safety
components, such as fire protection equipment and fire, smoke, carbon monoxide, and
heat detectors and alarms are installed and operational; and (3) that all required means of
egress from the stmcture have been provided. The Village Engineer may include in a
temporary certificate of occupancy such terms and conditions as he or she deems
necessary or appropriate to ensure the health and safety of the persons occupying and
using the building or stmcture and/or performing further construction work in the
building or structure. The temporary certificate of occupancy shall contain all information
as prescribed in subsection B(2) of this section.
A temporary certificate of occupancy shall be effective for a period oftime,not to exceed
six (6) months, which shall be determined by the Village Engineer and specified in the
temporary certificate of occupancy. During the specified period of effectiveness of the
temporary certificate of occupancy, the Permit Holder shall undertake to bring the
building or stmcture into full compliance with all applicable provisions of the Uniform
Code, Energy Code, and all other applicable building laws, regulations and ordinances.
D. If the Village Engineer determines that a certificate of occupancy or a temporary
certificate of occupancy was issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information, and
if the relevant deficiencies are not corrected to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer
within such period of time as shall be specified by the Village Engineer, the Village
Engineer shall revoke or suspend such certificate.
S 86-20. Notification regarding fire or explosion.
The Chief of the Fire Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or his designee shall
promptiy notify the Village Engineer of any fire or explosion involving any structural damage,
fuel burning appliance, chimney, or gas vent.
S 86-21. Unsafe buildings.
Unsafe buildings, stmctures and equipment and conditions of imminent danger in the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson shall be identified and addressed in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 90 of the Village Code, as now in effect or as hereafter amended from time to time.

15

§ 86-22. Operating permits.
A. Operating permits shall be required for conducting any process or activity or for
operating any type of building, stmcture, or facility listed below:
1. manufacturing, storing, or handling hazardous materials in quantities
exceeding those listed in the applicable Maximum Allowable Quantity tables
found in Chapter 50 ofthe FCNYS;
2. buildings, stmctures, facilities, processes, and/or activities that are within the
scope and/or permit requirements of the chapter or section titie of the FCNYS
as follows:
a. Chapter 22, "Combustible Dust-Producing Operations." Facilities
where the operation produces combustible dust;
b. Chapter 24, "Flammable Finishes." Operations utilizingfiammableor
combustible liquids, or the application of combustible powders
regulated by Chapter 24 ofthe FCNYS;
c. Chapter 25, "Fmit and Crop Ripening." Operating a fmit- or cropripening facility or conducting a fmit-ripening process using ethylene
gas;
d. Chapter 26, "Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging." Conducting
fimiigation or insecticidal fogging operations in buildings, structures,
and spaces, except for fumigation or insecticidal fogging performed by
the occupant of a detached one-family dwelling;
e. Chapter 31, "Tents, Temporary Special Event Stmctures, and Other
Membrane Stmctures." Operating an air-supported temporary
membrane structure, a temporary special event structure, or a tent
where approval is required pursuant to Chapter 31 ofthe FCNYS;
f Chapter 32, "High-Piled Combustible Storage." High-piled
combustible storage facilities with more than 500 square feet
(including aisles) of high-piled storage;
g. Chapter 34, "Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage." Operating a facility
that stores in excess of 2,500 cubic feet of scrap tires or tire byproducts
or operating a tire rebuilding plant;
h. Chapter 35, "Welding and Other Hot Work." Performing public
exhibitions and demonstrations where hot work is conducted, use of
hot work, welding, or cutting equipment, inside or on a structure,
except an operating permit is not required where work is conducted
under the authorization of a building permit or where perfonned by the
occupant of a detached one- or two-family dwelling;
i. Chapter 40, "Sugarhouse Alternative Activity Provisions." Conducting
an alternative activity at a sugarhouse;
j . Chapter 56, "Explosives and Fireworks." Possessing, manufacturing,
storing, handling, selling, or using, explosives, fireworks, or other
pyrotechnic special effects materials except the outdoor use of
sparkling devices as defined by Penal Law section 270;
16

k. Section 307, "Open Burning, Recreational Fires and Portable Outdoor
Fireplaces." Conducting open buming, not including recreational fires
and portable outdoor fireplaces;
I. Section 308, "Open Flames." Removing paint with a torch, or using
openflames,fire,and burning in connection with assembly areas or
educational occupancies; and
m. Seetion 319, "Mobile Food Preparation Vehicles." Operating a mobile
food preparation vehicle.
3. energy storage systems, where the system exceeds the values shown in Table
1206.1 ofthe FCNYS or exceeds the permitted aggregate ratings in section
R327.5 offileRCNYS
4. buildings containing one or more assembly areas;
5. outdoor events where the planned attendance exceeds 1,000 persons;
6. facilities that store, handle or use hazardous production materials;
7. parking garages as defined in § 86-24 of this local law;
8. buildings whose use or occupancy classification may pose a substantial
potential hazard to public safety, as determined by resolution adopted by the
Board of Tmstees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
9. Other processes or activities or for operating any type of building, structure or
facility as determined by resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
B. An application for an operating permit shall be in writing on a form provided by or
otherwise acceptable to the Village Engineer and include any fee established by the
Village Board of Tmstees. Such application shall include such information as Village
Engineer deems sufficient to permit a determination by the Village Engineer that
quantities, materials, and activities conform to the requirements of the Uniform Code. If
the Village Engineer determines that tests or reports are necessary to verify confonnance,
such tests or reports shall be performed or provided by such person or persons as may be
designated by or otherwise acceptable to the Village Engineer, at the expense of the
applicant.
C. Operating permits shall not be required for processes or activities, or the buildings,
stmctures, or facilities listed in paragraphs 1 through 7 of subdivision A ofthis section,
provided that the use is expressly authorized by a certificate of occupancy, fire safety and
property maintenance inspections are performed in accordance with § 86-23 ofthis local
law, and condition assessments are performed in compliance with § 86-24 of this local
law, as applicable.
D. The Village Engineer shall inspect the subject premises prior to the issuance of an
operating permit. Such inspections shall be performed either in-person or remotely.
Remote inspections in lieu of in-person inspections may be performed when, at the
discretion of the Village Engineer, the remote inspection can be performed to the same
17

level and quality as an in-person inspection and the remote inspection shows to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer that the premises conform with the applicable
requirements of the Uniform Code and the code enforcement program. Should a remote
inspection not afford the Village of Croton-on-Hudson sufficient information to make a
determination, an in-person inspection shall be performed. After inspection, the premises
shall be noted as satisfactory and the operating permit shall be issued, or the operating
pennit holder shall be notified as to the marmer in which the premises fail to comply with
either or both of the Uniform Code and the code enforcement program, including a
citation to the specific provision or provisions that have not been met.
E. In any circumstance in which more than one activity listed in subdivision A of this
section is to be conducted at a location, the Village Engineer may require a separate
operating permit for each such activity, or the Village Engineer may, in their discretion,
issue a single operating permit to apply to all such activities.
F. Operating permits shall be issued for a specified period of time consistent with local
conditions, but in no event to exceed as follows:
a. One hundred eighty (180) days for tents, special event stmctures, and other
membrane stmctures;
b. Sixty (60) days for alternative activities at a sugarhouse;
c. Three (3) years for the activities, stmctures, and operations determined per
paragraph (9) of subdivision (A) of this seetion unless sooner designated by
resolution of the Board of Tmstees, and
d. One (I) year for all other activities, stmctures, and operations identified in
subdivision (A) of this section.
The effective period of each operating permit shall be specified in the operating permit.
An operating permit may be reissued or renewed upon application to the Village
Engineer, payment ofthe applicable fee, and approval of such application by the Village
Engineer.
G. If the Village Engineer determines that any activity or building for which an operating
permit was issued does not comply with any applicable provision of the Unifonn Code,
such operating permit shall be revoked or suspended.
§ 86-23. Fire safety and property maintenance inspections.
A. Fire safety and property maintenance inspections ofbuildings and stmctures shall be
performed by the Village Engineer, the Fire Inspector in accordance with Chapter 125, or
their designee(s) at the following intervals:
1. at least once every twelve (12) months for buildings which contain an
assembly area;
2. at least once every twelve (12) months for public and private schools and
colleges, including any buildings of such schools or colleges containing
18

classrooms, dormitories,fraternities,sororities, laboratories, physical
education, dining, or recreational facilities; and
3. at least once every twenty-four (24) months for muhiple dwellings; and
4. at least once every thirty-six (36) months for all other nomesidential
occupancies.
Following the inspection, the Village Engineer, Chief, or their designee shall note the
inspected premises as satisfactory or the owner and operator of the premises shall be
notified as to the manner in which the premises fails to comply with the Uniform Code,
including a citation to the specific Uniform Code provision or provisions that have not
been met.
B. At the discretion ofthe Village Engineer, the Chief, or their designee(s) authorized to
perform fire safety and property maintenance inspections, a remote inspection may be
performed in lieu of in-person inspections when, in the opinion of the Village Engineer,
the Chief, or their designee(s), the remote inspection can be performed to the same level
and quality as an in-person inspection and the remote inspection shows to the satisfaction
of the Village Engineer, the Chief, or their designee(s) that the premises conform with the
applicable provisions of 19 NYCRR Part 1225 and the publications incorporated therein
by reference and the applicable provisions of 19 NYCRR Part 1226 and the publications
incorporated therein by reference. Should a remote inspection not afford the Village
Engineer, the Chief, or their designee(s) sufficient information to make a determination,
an in-person inspection shall be performed.
C. In addition to the inspections required by subdivision A of this section, a fire safety and
property maintenance inspection of any building, stmcture, use, or occupancy, or of any
dwelling unit, may also be performed by the Village Engineer, the Chief, or their
designee(s) to perform fire safety and property maintenance inspections at any time upon:
1. the request of the owner of the property to be inspected or an authorized agent
of such owner;
2. receipt by the Village Engineer of a written statement alleging that conditions
or activities failing to comply with the Uniform Code or Energy Code exist; or
3. receipt by the Village Engineer of any other information, reasonably believed
by the Village Engineer to be reliable, giving rise to reasonable cause to
believe that conditions or activities failing to comply with the Uniform Code
or Energy Code exist; provided, however, that nothing in this subdivision
shall be construed as permitting an inspection under any circumstances under
which a court order or warrant permitting such inspection is required, unless
such court order or wanant shall have been obtained.
D. OFPC Inspections. Nothing in this section or in any other provision of this local law shall
supersede, limit, or impair the powers, duties and responsibilities of the New York State
Office of Fire Prevention and Control ("OFPC") and the New York State Fire
19

Administrator or other authorized entity under Executive Law section 156-e and
Education Law seetion 807-b.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section to the contrary, the Village Engineer
may accept an inspection performed by the Office of Fire Prevention and Control or other
authorized entity pursuant to sections 807-a and 807-b of the Education Law and/or
section 156-e ofthe Executive Law, in lieu of a fire safety and property maintenance
inspection performed by the Village Engineer or by an Inspector, provided that:
1. the Village Engineer is satisfied that the individual performing such inspection
satisfies the requirements set forth in 19 NYCRR section 1203.2(e);
2. the Village Engineer is satisfied that such inspection covers all elements
required to be covered by a fire safety and property maintenance inspection;
3. such inspections are performed no lessfrequentlythan once a year;
4. a true and complete copy of the report of each such inspection is provided to
the Village Engineer; and
5. upon receipt of each such report, the Village Engineer takes the appropriate
action prescribed by § 86-29 of this local law.
§ 86-24. Condition assessments of parking garages.
A. For the purposes of this section:
1. the term "condition assessment" means an on-site inspection and evaluation of
a parking garage for evidence of deterioration of any stmctural element or
building component of such parking garage, evidence of the existence of any
unsafe condition in such parking garage, and evidence indicating that such
parking garage is an unsafe structure;
2. the term "deterioration" means the weakening, disintegration, corrosion, rust,
or decay ofany stmctural element or building component, or any other loss of
effectiveness of a structural element or building component;
3. the term "parking garage" means any building or structure, or part thereof, in
which all or any part of any structural level or levels is used for parking or
storage of motor vehicles, excluding:
i.
buildings in which the only level used for parking or storage of motor
vehicles is on grade;
ii.
an attached or accessory structure providing parking exclusively for a
detached one- or two-family dwelling; and
iii.
a townhouse unit with attached parking exclusively for such unit;
4. the term "professional engineer" means an individual who is licensed or
otherwise authorized under Article 145 ofthe Education Law to practice the
profession of engineering in the State ofNew York and who has at least three
years of experience performing structural evaluations;
5. the term "responsible professional engineer" means the professional engineer
who performs a condition assessment, or under whose supervision a condition
assessment is performed, and who seals and signs the condition assessment
20

report. The use ofthe term "responsible professional engineer" shall not be
construed as limiting the professional responsibility or liability of any
professional engineer, or of any other licensed professional, who participates
in the preparation of a condition assessment without being the responsible
professional engineer for such condition assessment.
6. the term "unsafe condition" includes the conditions identified as "unsafe" in
section 304.1.1, section 305.1.1, and section 306.1.1 ofthe PMCNYS; and
7. the term "unsafe structure" means a structure that is so damaged, decayed,
dilapidated, or structurally unsafe, or is of such faulty construction or imstable
foundation, that partial or complete collapse is possible.
B. The owner operator of each parking garage shall cause such parking garage to undergo an
initial condition assessment as described in subdivision C of this section, periodic
condition assessments as described in subdivision D of this section, and such additional
condition assessments as may be required under subdivision E ofthis section. Each
condition assessment shall be conducted by or under the direct supervision ofa
professional engineer. A written report of each condition assessment shall be prepared,
and provided to Village Engineer, in accordance with the requirements of subdivision F
of this section. Before performing a condition assessment (other than the initial condition
assessment) of a parking garage, the responsible professional engineer for such condition
assessment shall review all available previous condition assessment reports for such
parking garage.
C. Each parking garage shall undergo an initial condition assessment as follows:
1. Parking garages constmcted in whole or in part prior to the effective date of this local
law shall undergo an initial condition assessment following constmction and prior to
a certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance being issued for the stmcture.
2. Any pai'king garage constmcted prior to the effective date of the local law enacting
this provision that has not undergone an initial condition assessment prior to that
effective date shall undergo an initial condition assessment prior to six (6) months
after the effective date of this local law.
D. Following the initial condition assessment of a parking garage, such parking garage shall
undergo periodic condition assessments at intervals not to exceed three (3) years.
E. Additional Condition Assessments.
I . If the latest condition assessment report for a parking garage includes a
recommendation by the responsible professional engineer that an additional condition
assessment of such parking garage, or any portion of such parking garage, be
performed before the date by which the next periodic condition assessment would be
required under subdivision C ofthis section, the owner or operator ofsuch parking
garage shall cause such parking garage (or, i f applicable, the portion of such parking
21

garage identified by the responsible professional engineer) to undergo an additional
condition assessment no later than the date recommended in such condition
assessment report.
2. Ifthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson becomes aware of any new or increased
deterioration which, in the judgment ofthe Village Engineer, indicates that an
additional condition assessment ofthe entire parking garage, or of the portion of the
parking garage affected by such new or increased deterioration, should be performed
before the date by which the next periodic condition assessment would be required
under subdivision C of this section, the owner or operator of such parking garage
shall cause such parking garage (or, if applicable, the portion of the parking garage
affected by such new or increased deterioration) to undergo an additional condition
assessment no later than the date determined by the Village Engineer to be
appropriate.
F. Condition Assessment Reports. The responsible professional engineer shall prepare, or
directly supervise the preparation of, a written report of each condition assessment, and
shall submit such condition assessment report to the ViUage Engineer within 30 days.
Such condition assessment report shall be sealed and signed by the responsible
professional engineer, and shall include:
1. an evaluation and description ofthe extent of deterioration and conditions that
cause deterioration that could result in an unsafe condition or unsafe stmcture;
2. an evaluation and description of the extent of deterioration and conditions that
cause deterioration that, in the opinion of the responsible professional engineer,
should be remedied immediately to prevent an unsafe condition or unsafe
stmcture;
3. an evaluation and description of the unsafe conditions;
4. an evaluation and description of the problems associated with the deterioration,
conditions that cause deterioration, and unsafe conditions;
5. an evaluation and description of the conective options available, including the
recommended timeframe for remedying the deterioration, conditions that cause
deterioration, and unsafe conditions;
6. an evaluation and description of the risks associated with not addressing the
deterioration, conditions that cause deterioration, and unsafe conditions;
7. the responsible professional engineer's recommendation regarding preventative
maintenance;
8. except in fhe case of the report of the initial condition assessment, the responsible
professional engineer's attestation that he or she reviewed all previously prepared
condition assessment reports available for such parking garage, and considered
the information in the previously prepared reports while performing the current
condition assessment and while preparing the current report; and
9. the responsible professional engineer's recommendation regarding the time within
which the next condition assessment ofthe parking garage or portion thereof
22

should be performed. In making the recommendation regarding the time within
which the next condition assessment of the parking garage or portion thereof
should be performed, the responsible professional engineer shall consider the
parking garage's age, maintenance history, stmctural condition, construction
materials, frequency and intensity of use, location, exposure to the elements, and
any other factors deemed relevant by the responsible professional engineer in
their professional judgment.
G. The Village Engineer shall take such enforcement action or actions in response to the
information in such condition assessment report as may be necessary or appropriate to
protect the publie from the hazards that may result from the conditions described in such
report. In particular, but not by way of limitation, the Village Engineer shall, by Order to
Remedy or such other means of enforcement as the Village Engineer may deem
appropriate, require the owner or operator of the parking garage to repair or otherwise
remedy all deterioration, all conditions that cause deterioration, md all unsafe conditions
identified in such condition assessment report pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) of
subdivision F. All repairs and remedies shall comply with the applicable provisions of the
Umform Code. This section shall not limit or impair the right of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson to take any other enforcement action, including but not limited to suspension
or revocation of a parking garage's operating permit, as may be necessary or appropriate
in response to the information in a condition assessment report.
H. The Village Engineer shall retain all condition assessment reports for the life of the
parking garage. Upon request by a professional engineer who has been engaged to
perform a condition assessment of a parking garage, and who provides the Village
Engineer with a written statement attesting to the fact that he or she has been so engaged,
the Village Engineer shall make the previously prepared condition assessment reports for
such parking garage (or copies of such reports) available to such professional engineer.
The ViUage Engineer shall be permitted to require the owner or operator of the subject
parking garage to pay all costs and expenses associated with making such previously
prepared condition assessment reports (or copies thereof) available to the professional
engineer.
I.

This section shall not limit or impair the right or the obligation ofthe Village Engineer to:
1. to perform such construction inspections as are required by section § 86-15 of this
local law;
2. to perform such periodic fire safety and property maintenance inspections as are
required by section § 86-23 of this local law; and/or
3. to take such enforcement action or actions as may be necessary or appropriate to
respond to any condition that comes to the attention of the Village Engineer by means
of its own inspections or observations, by means of a complaint, or by any other
means other than a condition assessment or a report of a condition assessment.

23

§ 86-25. Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria.
A. The Village Engineer shall determine the climatic and geographic design criteria for
buildings and structures constructed within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as required
by the Uniform Code. Such determinations shall be made in the manner specified in the
Uniform Code using, where applicable, the maps, charts, and other information provided
in the Uniform Code. The criteria to be so determined shall include but shall not
necessarily be limited to, the following:
1. design criteria to include ground snow load; wind design loads; seismic
category; potential damage from weathering, frost, and termite; winter
design temperature; whether ice barrier underiayment is required; the air
freezing index; and the mean annual temperature;
2. heating and cooling equipment design criteria for stmctures within the
scope of the RCNYS. The design criteria shall include the data identified
in the Design Criteria Table found in Chapter 3 of the RCNYS; and
3. flood hazard areas, flood hazard maps, and supporting data. The flood
hazard map shall include, at a minimum, special flood hazard areas as
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the Flood
Insurance Study for the community, as amended or revised with:
i . the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM);
ii. Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM); and
iii. related supporting data along with any revisions thereto.
B. The Village Engineer shall prepare a written record of the climatic and geographic design
criteria determined pursuant to subdivision A of this seetion, shall maintain such record
within the office of the Village Engineer, and shall make such record readily available to
the public.

§ 86-26. Testing of materials or construction.
Whenever there are reasonable grounds to believe that any material, construction,
equipment or assembly does not conform to the requirements ofthe applicable building
laws, ordinances or regulations, the ViUage Engineer may require the same to be
subjected to tests paid for by the applicant in order to furnish proof of such compliance.
§ 86-27. Compliance with building standards required; interpretation.

No dereliction of duty or errors on the part of the Village Engineer shall legalize the
erection, construction or alteration ofany building not in conformity with the Uniform
Code, Energy Code and other applicable ordinances and regulations. The building permh
shall not be construed as authority to violate, cancel or set aside any ofthe provisions of
the Uniform Code, Energy Code, this Article or ofany other statute or ordinance
pertinent thereto.
24

§ 86-28. Regulation of vacant lots.
When a building has been demolished and no building operation has been projected or
approved or in the event of substantial intenuption of work on a building or stmcture
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy as the result of a stop-work order, the
revocation or expiration of a building permit or for any other cause, the premises shall be
maintained free from the accumulation of rubbish or water and all other unsafe or
hazardous conditions which endanger the life or health of the public. The premises shall
be safeguarded in the marmer ordered by the Village Engineer, including, among other
requirements, the taking down of walls or the covering of areas between walls. If the
owner ofthe property fails to comply with the order, the Village Engineer may employ
such labor and materials and other services as may be necessary to perform the required
work. All costs and expenses so incuned by the village shall be paid by the owner or may
be assessed against the land.
§ 86-29. Violations;_Penalties for offenses.
A. It shall be unlawfiil for any person, firm or corporation to constmct, alter, repair,
move, remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure or
portion thereof in violation of any provision ofthis article or to fail in any manner to
comply with a notice, directive or order of the Village Engineer or to construct, alter or
use and occupy any building or stmcture or part thereof in a manner not permitted by an
approved building permit or certificate of occupancy.
B. The Village Engineer is authorized to order in writing the remedying ofany condition
or activity found to exist in, on or about any building, structure, or premises in violation
of the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, or this local law. An Order to Remedy shall be in
writing; shall be dated and signed by the Village Engineer; shall specify the condition or
activity that violates the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, or this loeal law; shall specify
the provision or provisions of the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, or this local law
which is/are violated by the specified condition or activity; shall direct the discontinuance
of the Ulegal action or condition;_and shall include a statement substantially similar to the
following:
"The person or entity served with this Order to Remedy must completely remedy
eaeh violation described in this Order to Remedy by
[specify dale], which
is thirty (30) days after the date of this Order to Remedy."
The Order to Remedy may include provisions ordering the person or entity served with
such Order to Remedy (1) to begin to remedy the violations described in the Order to
Remedy immediately, or within some other specified period oftimewhich may be less
than thirty (30) days; to continue diligently to remedy such violations until each such
violation is fully remedied; and, in any event, to complete the remedying of all such
violations within thirty (30) days of the date of such Order to Remedy; and/or (2) to take
25

such other protective actions (such as vacating the building or banicading the area where
the violations exist) which are authorized by this local law or by any other applicable
statute, regulation, mle, local law or ordinance, and which the Village Engineer may
deem appropriate, during the period while such violations are being remedied. The
Village Engineer shall cause the Order to Remedy, or a copy thereof, to be served on the
owner ofthe affected property personally or by registered mail or certified mail within
five (5) days after the date of the Order to Remedy. The Village Engineer shall be
permitted, but not required, to cause the Order to Remedy, or a copy thereof, to be served
on any builder, architect, tenant, contractor, subcontractor, constmction superintendent, or
their agents, or any other Person taking part or assisting in work being performed at the
affected property personally or by registered mail or certified mail within five (5) days
after the date ofthe Order to Remedy; provided, however, that failure to serve any Person
mentioned in this sentence shall not affect the efficacy of the Compliance Order. Unless
the violation is abated within said period, the Village Engineer shall suspend or revoke
the permit for the building operation under which the violation was committed.
D. Ifthe notice of violation is not complied with as provided herein, the Village Engineer
shall request the Village Attorney to institute the appropriate proceedings at law or in
equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation and to require the removal or
termination of the unlav^ul condition or use of the building or structure.
E. Every person who shall violate this Article shall be subject to a penalty as provided in
§ 382 ofthe Executive Law.
F. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the taking of any
appropriate action to prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a
violation or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises or to stop an
illegal act, disorderly conduct, business or use of a building, structure or premises.
Section Two. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity ofthe remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law.

26

(Compiete the certification in the paragraph that appiies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which is not appiicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
1 hereby certify that the local law^^annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 2?
the {County)(City)(Town)C2lig^f Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on April 10
2023
fName otLegislative Body)
provisions of law.

of 2 0 ^ ^
of
^j^,y passed by the
, jn accordance with the applicable

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
„ of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
.
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
fName of Legislalive Body)
(repassed afterdisapproval)
by the
after disappro\
on

20|

I

.
.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

and was deemed duly adopted

I, in accordance w ith the appiicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

„

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions oflaw.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Viilage) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

2D

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the povi/er to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-t (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local iaw No.
of 20
. of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special){general) election held on
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
1 further certify that 1 have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adgpted-m-tb^^manner indicated in
paragraph ,
above.
..-fflerk nf i\mk-.fii^^\e.^s\a\]vehody City, Town or Village C|erk or
officer designayd by local legislative body " P f ^ c J i ^ n ^ t^ ' ^ o t ^ t *

(Seal) 7• ,

DOS-0239-M (Rev. 06/12)

Date:

/

t ^ f x f : > ^ 3

P^S^ 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, tiie following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Tmstees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0vote.
Resolution #70-2023
WHEREAS New York State Executive Law § 381 directs that each local government is responsible
for administration and enforcement of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code
("the Uniform Code") and the State Energy Conservation Constmction Code ("the Energy Code") with
respect to buildings located within the local government, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to revise Chapter 86, Building
Constmction, of the Village Code to ensure compliance with the minimum standards for
administration and enforcement of the Uniform Code and Energy Code, and
WHEREAS Loeal Law Introductory No. 3 of2023 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on April 10, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that tiie Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 3 of 2023 to amend Chapter 86, Building Construction, of the Village Code to provide for
the administration and enforcement of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 3 of 2023.

Dated: April 10, 2023
State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of
New York, do hereby certify that the armexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office
and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Tmstees of said Village held on the
10'" of April 2023.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal ofthe said
Village this 12**" day of April 2023.

(Seal)


