---
title: "Local Law 3-2026: to establish chapter 9 of the code of the village of croton on hudson, entitled "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2026-02-12
---

Local Law 3-2026
Filed: 2026-02-12
to establish chapter 9 of the code of the village of croton on hudson, entitled "auditor, village"

New York State
Department of State
DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS,
STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
One Commerce plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Department of State
Corporations, State Records & ucc

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
03
of the year 2026
Local Law Title:

A LOCAL LAW TO ESTABLISH CHAPTER 9 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, ENTITLED AUDITOR, VILLAGE.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

☐ County
(select one)

☐ City

☐ Town

☒ Village
as follows on the attached pages:

of Croton-on-Hudson
(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only

FILED
STATE RECORDS
FEB 1 2 2026
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Department of State Local Law Index Number:

3

of the year 20 ____

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)
DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

page 1 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 3 OF 2026
A LOCAL LAW TO ESTABLISH CHAPTER 9 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, ENTITLED AUDITOR, VILLAGE.
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. The Code of the village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended by adding a new
Chapter 9 entitled Auditor, Village to read as follows:
§9-1. Legislative Intent and Purpose.
A thorough and deliberate claims auditing process builds taxpayer confidence in the
operations of their local government. To better serve the public interest, and as a key
internal control specifically intended to mitigate risks associated with the expenditure
of public money, the Village Board of Trustees establishes the Office of Auditor and
delegates to the Auditor the duty heretofore assigned to the Board of Trustees by New
York State village Law § 5-524 to audit all claims against the Village of Croton-onHudson and approve payment thereof.
§9-2. Claim Defined.
The term claim as used in this chapter, shall include all bills, accounts, and demands
for the payment of money, of whatever nature, asserted against the village, the
auditing of which is heretofore assigned to the Board of Trustees by New York State
village Law § 5-524 (1).
§9-3. Office Established.
Pursuant to the authority of New York State Village Law, § 3-301(2)(c), the Office of
Auditor is hereby established to audit and to order paid all legitimate claims against
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and shall have all duties as permitted by law.
§9-4. Appointment and Qualifications.
The Board of Trustees shall appoint the Auditor and fill vacancies in such office. The
Auditor shall serve in the capacity at the pleasure of said Board of Trustees. The
Auditor shall be chosen by the appointing authority solely on the basis of the
appointees training and experience, with special reference to actual experience or
knowledge of the responsibilities and duties of the position. No elected official of the
Village shall be eligible for such appointment during the term for which the official
shall have been elected nor within one year after the expiration of said term.
§9-5. Duties.
At a minimum, it shall be the duty of the Auditor to complete a thorough and deliberate
examination of each claim to determine that the claim is a legal obligation and a proper

charge against the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the Auditor shall approve the
claim for payment only upon such determination.
§9-6. Independence.
The Auditor shall operate independently of all other village Departments or Offices
and shall report directly to the Board of Trustees.
§9-7. Compensation.
The Auditor shall receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall fix.
§9-8. When Effective.
This chapter shall be effective immediately as provided by law.
Section Two. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
thereof, which other portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Three. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

Local Law Filing

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1.(Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number 03 of 2026 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on February 04, 2026 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
2.(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of the
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) duly passed by the
on 20 and was
(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3.(Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of the
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body) on 20 and was
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective chief Executive officer*) on 20 ,
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
4.(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of the
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body) on 20 and was
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective chief Executive officer*) on 20
Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
requesting such referendum was filed as of 20 in accordance with the
applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
DOS-0239-f (Rev. 02/25)

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of
the City of having submitted to referendum pursuant to
the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of
the County of State of New York, having been submitted to
the electors at the General Election of November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of
section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the
manner indicated in the paragraph above.
Pauline DiSanto
Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or
Village Clerk or officer designated by local legislative body
(Seal)

DOS-0239-a-f (Rev. 02-25)

February 06, 2026
(Date)

page 3 of 3

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a vote of
5-0.
Resolution #12-2026
WHEREAS, New York State village Law provides for the Village Board of Trustees to audit all
claims presented to the village for payment; and
WHEREAS, Section 5-524 of the Village Law authorizes the village to establish the office of
auditor, which would undertake these duties of the village Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2026 has been drafted to create the office of village
Auditor; and
WHEREAS, the local law was reviewed and discussed at a work session held on January 14, 2026;
and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on February 4, 2026,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED; that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 2 of 2026 to create Chapter 9, Auditor, Village, of the Village Code to
establish the office of village Auditor, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 3 of 2026;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the village Board of Trustees hereby appoint Village Manager
Bryan Healy to the position of village Auditor.
Dated: February 4, 2026
************************************
State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said village held
on the 04 of February, 2026.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
village this 06th day of February, 2026.

Village Clerk (seal)
