---
title: "Local Law 3-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-09-24
---

Local Law 3-1998
Filed: 1998-09-24

LOCAL LAW FILING

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

Village of Croton on Hudson
Local Law No. 3 of the year 1998.

A local law providing for supplemental indemnification and defense against civil claims.

Be It enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson as follows:

§ 1. A new chapter, Chapter 61 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Code, is hereby created to read as follows:
Public Officers Indemnification

§ 61-1. Legislative Purpose.
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has heretofore recognized the increasing litigation exposure faced by public employees and officers and conferred the defense and indemnification benefits contained in § 18 of the Public Officers Law on the Village's public officials and employees by resolution. The Board of Trustees wishes to reaffirm and codify that action and to provide additional indemnification and defense protection pursuant to law.

§ 61-2. Section 18 Benefits.
The full benefits of Section 18 of the Public Officers Law shall apply to public officials and employees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall be held liable for the costs incurred under the provisions of that section, as well as the costs incurred under Section 61-3 of this chapter.

§ 61-3. Additional Indemnification.
The Village will provide for the defense of any Village officer or employee in any civil action or proceeding arising out of any alleged act or omission in which it is alleged that the officer or employee has violated the civil rights of the claimant, petitioner or plaintiff under Section 1981 and 1983 of the U.S. Civil Rights Act. The Village shall indemnify and save harmless such officer or employee in the amount of any judgment or settlement of claim obtained against such officer or employee, including punitive and exemplary damages. Such legal defense and indemnification shall be provided only where the officer or employee at the time of such alleged act or omission was acting in good faith and within the scope of his public employment, powers or duties. The provisions of this section shall be in addition to any other statute, local law or enactment providing legal defense and indemnification in civil actions brought against such officer or employee.

§ 2. This local law shall take effect immediately in filing in the office of the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 3 of 1998 of the Village of Croton on Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on 9/8, 1998, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on , 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the - and was deemed duly adopted on , 19----, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on - 19—-, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the on 19 Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 19---- , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— . and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the on -- 19-.-. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 19---- , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on - 19 -, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November -— 19-—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was duly adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1 above.

Village Clerk
or officer designated by local legislative body

(Seal)

Date: 9/23/98

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF Westchester

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title
Village of Croton on Hudson

Date: 9/23/98
(3)
