---
title: "Local Law 3-2025: TO AMEND AND UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230, ZONING, OF THE CODE OF TH"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-02-25
---

Local Law 3-2025
Filed: 2025-02-25
TO AMEND AND UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230, ZONING, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County

City

Town

Village

(Selection.)

2 5

2025

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No.

03
of the year 2025

A local law TO AMEND AND UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230,
(Insert Title)

ZONING, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

County

City

Town

Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 03-2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND AND UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER 230,
ZONING, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-4, Terms defined, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to add the following definitions:
ACCESSORY COTTAGE
A dwelling unit in a new or existing accessory structure located on the same lot as a detached singlefamily residence, which is subordinate to the principal single-family dwelling in terms of size,
location and appearance and provides complete housekeeping facilities for one family, including
independent cooking, bathroom and sleeping facilities.
BOARDER or ROOMER
A person who occupies a room in a single-family dwelling unit for sleeping purposes on a nontransient basis for which they pay compensation to the property owner. The term "boarder" does not
include a member of the property owner's family or persons related to the property owner by blood,
marriage, or legal adoption.
MANUFACTURED HOME
A structure, transportable in one or more sections constructed off-site, which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and
electrical systems contained therein and complies with the requirements set forth in § 601 of the
Executive Law. The term "manufactured home" shall not include any trailer as defined herein.
Section Two. Section 230-4, Terms defined, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-onHudson, is hereby amended to modify the following definitions as follows:
BUILDING
Any combination of materials forming any construction. The term "building" shall include the term
"structure" as well as the following:
A. Signs.
B. Fences over six feet in height and more than 25% solid.
C. Walls, other than retaining walls, over five feet in height.
D. Radio and television antennas, except for such antennas installed on the roof of a building
and extending not more than 15 feet above the highest level of the roof of such building.
E. Pergolas, porches, outdoor bins and other similar structures.
F. Swimming pools either contemplated by § 230-9.1A(6) or conforming to § 2309.1A(10)(c).
G. Fallout shelters.
H. Retaining walls.

I. Garages.
L Sheds.
FLOOR AREA, HABITABLE
All spaces within the exterior walls of a dwelling unit exclusive of garages, cellars, utility rooms,
unheated porches and breezeways, but shall include all spaces not otherwise excluded, such as
habitable basements, principal rooms, bathrooms and all closets and hallways opening directly into
and appurtenant to any rooms within the dwelling unit, and all attic space having clear height of
seven feet six inches or greater from finished floor level to ceiling level over 50% of the area of such
attic space.
TRAILER
A vehicular camping unit primarily designed as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping,
travel, or seasonal use that either has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another
vehicle. The term "trailer" shall include camping trailers, fifth-wheel trailers, park trailers, travel
trailers, truck campers, mobile homes, recreational vehicles, motor homes, campers, and other
similar vehicles. The term "trailer" shall not include any manufactured home as defined herein.
Section Three. Section 230-9.1, One-Family Residence RA-60 District, of the Zoning Law of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to revise subsection A(10)(e) as follows:
(e) Keeping not more than one boarder or roomer, subject to the requirements set forth in § 230-48.5.
Section Four. Section 230-13, Two-Family Residence RB District, of the Zoning Law of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby revised to repeal subsection C in its entirety.
Section Five. Section 230-16, Central Commercial C-1 District, of the Zoning Law of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby revised to amend subsection A (1) as follows (see strike-through for
deleted text):
A. In a Commercial C-1 District, no building or premises shall be used, and no building or part
of building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used, in whole or
in part, for any purpose, except the following:
(1) Retail stores and banks, except that no vape or tobacco shop shall be permitted
within 500 feet of the property line of the Pierre Van Cortlandt Middle School and
Croton-Harmon High School and may not be located within 500 feet of any other
vape or tobacco shop.
Section Six. Section 230-40, Supplementary regulations applicable to residence districts, of the
Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to add a new Subsection I ,
Manufactured Homes, to read as follows:
I.

Manufactured Homes.

(1)

In accordance with § 616 of the Executive Law, a manufactured home affixed to a permanent
foundation shall be considered a one-family detached dwelling for purposes of this Zoning
Law, provided that such manufactured home conforms with the identical development
specifications and standards generally applicable to a site-built one family residence as

required by the Zoning Law and the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson. Such
development specifications and standards include, but are not limited to, conformance with
general aesthetic and architectural standards, parking requirements, the bulk and area
requirements of the underlying zoning district, and receipt of minor site plan approval in
accordance with Article XI of this Chapter. The use of skirting and perimeter enclosures shall
be included in the design of any manufactured home proposed within the Village.
Section Seven. Section 230-41, Accessory apartments, of the Zoning Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson is hereby amended to revise subsection B as follows:
B. An accessory cottage shall comply with all requirements of this chapter applicable to
accessory structures, except that any such structure shall have a minimum setback from all
property lines of 10 feet and the maximum height of 15 feet for any such structure shall be
measured in the same manner as a single-family dwelling as set forth in § 230-4C. An
accessory cottage may be located in a conforming accessory structure existing as of the date
of this section having a setback to any property line of less than 10 feet.

Section Eight. Article VII, Supplementary Regulations, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson is hereby amended to add a new Section 230-48.5 entitled "Boarders" to read as follows:
§ 230-48.5. Boarders.
A. Boarders permitted. One non-transient boarder or roomer shall be permitted to occupy a room
within a single-family or two-family dwelling upon the Issuance of a boarder permit by the
Village Engineer, provided that the following conditions are met:
(1) The owner of the dwelling must occupy as a principal residence the premises for
which permission is sought to house a boarder.
(2) The dwelling shall not contain an accessory apartment, nor may any accessory cottage
exist on the subject property.
(3) The sleeping room utilized by the boarder shall have not less than 100 square feet of
floor area, exclusive of closet space.
(4) The dwelling shall comply with this chapter and all applicable building, fire,
electrical, health and other safety codes.
(5) The dwelling space occupied by the boarder shall not have independent cooking
facilities. Food storage and microwave ovens are permitted after issuance of a boarder
permit by the Village Engineer. Refrigerated food storage shall be limited to a sixcubic-foot-capacity storage unit. Microwave ovens shall be utilized on a table or
bench not to exceed 36 inches in height.
(6) No boarder permit shall be issued unless the subject application is reviewed and
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may require a physical
inspection of the property to ascertain the adequacy of the structure to accommodate

such boarding use, and the adequacy of the site to provide appropriate off-street
parking facilities.
(7) Every application for a boarder permit shall be accompanied by a fee set by resolution
of the Board of Trustees.
B. The Village Engineer shall establish all forms, rules and regulations necessary to administer
the provision of this section. A record of all permits shall be kept in the office of the Village
Engineer.
C. All owners of dwellings that house a boarder as of the effective date of this section shall apply
to the Village Engineer for a boarder permit within 90 days of the effective date of this section.
If the application is made within 90 days, the owner of the dwelling shall not be deemed in
violation of this section until a final determination on the application has been made. If the
application is not made within 90 days, the owner of the dwelling shall be deemed in violation
of this subsection.
D. A boarder permit shall expire automatically upon change of ownership of the dwelling or
when the owner ceases to reside in the dwelling. In such event, the boarder shall be permitted
to reside in the dwelling for 60 days if the owner of the dwelling so consents, unless the
Village Engineer approves an additional extension of time.
(1) If a dwelling with a valid boarder permit is sold or transferred, the new owner may,
within 60 days from the taking of title, apply for a boarder permit. All the conditions
set forth in this section must be met. A new owner shall not be deemed in violation of
this section provided an application is submitted within the 60-day period.
(2) Should the new owner house a boarder but fail to apply for a boarder permit within
60 days from the taking of title, the new owner shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter. In addition, the new owner shall be precluded from applying for a boarder
permit for a period of one year from the date on which title was transferred.
E. Any property owner who houses a boarder and fails to obtain a boarder permit or who violates
any provision of this section or regulation promulgated thereunder shall be guilty of an
offense publishable by a fine of not more than $500 upon conviction of a first offence, and,
for the second and each subsequent conviction, by a fine of not more than $1,500. Each
month's continued violation shall constitute a separate additional violation. The Village
Engineer may revoke the boarder permit of any owner who violates any provision of this
section.
Section Nine. Section 230-67B, Uses and actions subject to site plan approval and minor site plan
approval, of the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended as follows:
B. Minor site plan approval shall be required in all districts for:
(1) Any new construction of a residential building, including a manufactured home in accordance
with §230-40I. The construction of residential decks and patios, walkways and gardens are not
subject to site plan review.

Section Ten. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Eleven. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 3 of 2025
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on February 12, 2025, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
, of

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
on

was duly passed by the
, and was (approved)(not approved)

20

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on

20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer")
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there

be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20
, became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
.State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Date:

Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution was adopted by
the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #14-2025
WHEREAS, New York State enacted legislation in 2012 that established a "property tax cap" on the amount that a
local government's property tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes charged on the municipality's taxable
assessed value of property, is capped at 2% or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the rate of inflation this year has been set by the State Comptroller's Office at 2.99% for municipalities
operating on a June through May fiscal year; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to protect the Village from
unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation requires that in the event an override is necessary, the law enabling it must already
have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2025 has been drafted to override the "property tax cap" law enacted
by State Legislature, if necessary,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls for a Public Hearing on
February 26, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal
Building to consider Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2025 to override the "property tax cap" law enacted by State
Legislature.

Dated; February 12, 2025
******************************+*****

State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New York, do
hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 12th of February 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village this 13th
day of February, 2025.
