---
title: "Local Law 3-2009: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2009-05-20
---

Local Law 3-2009
Filed: 2009-05-20

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET
ALBANY, NY 12231

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County
Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 3 of the year 2009

A local law amending section 172-2(A) of chapter 172 to exclude from applicability sales in Village
(Insert Title)
Parks and Recreation areas upon authorization from Village Board of Trustees.

Be It enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section One. Section 172-2(A) of Chapter 172 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is amended by
adding new subparagraph (7) to read as follows:
Section 172-2(A)(7). Any person, entity or organization authorized by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson to conduct sales within any park or recreation area of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Section Two. This local law shall take effect upon filing by the Secretary of State.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 1 of 3

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 3 of 2009 of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on May 4, 2009 in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. _ of 20_ of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of _ was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on __20_ in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. _ of 20_ of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of _ was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on .20 , and was (approved)(not approved)

on
20
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general) (special)(annual) election held on
20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. _ of 20_ of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on 20 and was (approved)(not approved)

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20
Such local
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be none,
the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the
power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 2 of 3

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. _ of 20_ of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on _ 20 became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. _ of 20_ of
the County of , State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1 above.

Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or other
authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF Westchester

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings have been
had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title
Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Date: 5/19/09

Page 3 of 3

On motion of TRUSTEE Olver, seconded by TRUSTEE Restuccia, the following
resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York:
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees would like to exclude from applicability sales
in Village Parks and Recreations areas unless authorized by the Board; and,
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2009 has been drafted amending Chapter
172 Section 2(A) of the Village Code adding subparagraph (7) allowing for sales in the
Villages Parks and Recreation areas by authorization of the Village Board, and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was held and closed on May 4, 2009,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law No. 3 of 2009, amending Chapter 172-2(A) of the Village Code.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that this local law shall take effect upon filing by
the Secretary of State.
Date: May 4, 2009
State of New York
County of Westchester

)
ss:
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy
of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees of said Village held on May 4, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
the said Village this 08th day of May, 2009.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
