```yaml
title: "Local Law 3-2016: CHANGING THE ZONING DESIGNATION OF A CERTAIN PARCEL OF LAND WITHIN THE VILLAGE O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2016-05-20
```

Local Law 3-2016
Filed: 2016-05-20
CHANGING THE ZONING DESIGNATION OF A CERTAIN PARCEL OF LAND WITHIN THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, AMENDING THE TAX MAP

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

FILED
County □ City □ Town □ [X] Village

of, Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 3 of the year 2016

A local law changing the zoning designation of a certain parcel of land within the Village of Croton on Hudson, amending the tax map.

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

County □ City □ Town [x] Village

of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1. The Village of Croton of Hudson Zoning Law is hereby amended as follows:
The parcel identified as Section 67.10, Block 2, Lot 5 as shown on the tax maps and tax assessment rolls of the Village is rezoned from an 0-2 Limited Office parcel to a RA-25 Residential District.

Section 2. The Official Zoning Map of the Village of Croton on Hudson, NY is hereby amended to reflect the foregoing change.
Section 3: This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only:)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. Three of 2016 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees on May 9, 2016 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 _of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of _ was duly passed by the (Name of Legislative Body) on , 20_, and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the (Name of Legislative Body) on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on , 20 . Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the (Name of Legislative Body) on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on , 20_. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of , 20__, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 3 of the year 2016

A local law changing the zoning designation of a certain parcel of land within the Village of Croton on Hudson, amending the tax map.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. The Village of Croton of Hudson Zoning Law is hereby amended as follows:

The parcel identified as Section 67.10, Block 2, Lot 5 as shown on the tax maps and tax assessment rolls of the Village is rezoned from an 0-2 Limited Office parcel to a RA-25 Residential District.

Section 2. The Official Zoning Map of the Village of Croton on Hudson, NY is hereby amended to reflect the foregoing change.
Section 3. This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

On motion of TRUSTEE Gallelli, seconded by TRUSTEE Pugh, the following resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a vote of 4-0.

WHEREAS, the Village Board is considering taking an action to adopt Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2016 to amend the zoning code of the village and official zoning map by rezoning the parcel at 120 Scenic Drive West, identified as Section 67.10, Block 2, Lot 5 from an 0-2 Limited Office parcel to a RA-25 Residential District; and
WHEREAS, on March 21, 2016 the Village Board declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes, determined that this was an unlisted action, and referred the application to the Planning Board, Waterfront Advisory Committee, and Westchester County Planning Department as required by law; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a response back from the Westchester County Planning Department, and favorable recommendations from the Village Planning Board and the Waterfront Advisory Committee; and

WHEREAS, on April 18, 2016 the Village Board of Trustees issued and adopted the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto, and adopted a Negative Declaration in connection with this action; and
WHEREAS, on May 9, 2016 the Village Board adopted a resolution confirming that the proposed action is consistent with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Policy,
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on May 9, 2016,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees adopts Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2016 to amend the zoning code of the village and official zoning map by rezoning the parcel at 120 Scenic Drive West, identified as Section 67.10, Block 2, Lot 5 from an 0-2 Limited Office parcel to a RA-25 Residential District, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 3 of 2016.
Dated: May 9, 2016

State of New York
)
) ss:
County of Westchester
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of trustees of said Village held on May 9, 2016.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village this 12th day of May, 2016.
