---
title: "Local Law 3-2021: A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPER 158, MASKS AND FACE COVERINGS, OF THE CODE OF THE VI"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2021-01-28
---

Local Law 3-2021
Filed: 2021-01-28
A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 158, MASKS AND FACE COVERINGS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF COTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE EXEMPTIONS AND OTHER LANGUAGE

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

•City

•Town

[X] Village

(Select one:)

JAN 2 8 Z0Z1

of Croton-on-Hudson

of the year 2021

Local Law No. 03

A local law AMENDING CHAPTER 158, MASKS AND FACE COVERINGS, OF
(Insert Title)

THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UDPATE
EXEMPTIONS AND OTHER LANGUAGE

Be it enacted by the

Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[X] Village

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

LOCAL LAW NO. 03 OF 2021
A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 158, MASKS AND FACE COVERINGS, OF
THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UDPATE
EXEMPTIONS AND OTHER LANGUAGE
BE IT ENACTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows;
Section One. Chapter 158 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson entitled "Masks and
Face Coverings" is hereby amended as follows:
§ 158-1 Findings and purpose.
C. On April 15, 2020, Governor Cuomo issued Executive Order 202.17 requiring any
individual who is over the age of two and able to medically tolerate a face-covering to
cover their nose and mouth with a mask or cloth face-covering when in a public place and
unable to maintain, or when not maintaining social distance.
§ 158-5 Exceptions.
A. Face masks or face coverings shall not be required to be worn by any child under the age
of two or by anyone who is unable to medically tolerate a face covering.
B. Face masks or face coverings shall not be required to be worn if individuals maintain a
distance of at least six feet from another person. Individuals who reside in the same
household shall not be required to wear a face mask or face covering if located within six
feet of each other.
C. Drivers traveling alone or exclusively with members of their households in a motor vehicle
do not need to wear face coverings.
D. Individuals are not required to wear a face mask or face covering when they are actively
eating and/or drinking, or while seated at a restaurant.
§ 158-6 Enforcement; penalties for offenses.
A. This law may only be enforced during the time that a Declaration of Emergency is issued
by the Village Manager due to an epidemic or disease outbreak that is communicable
through droplet contact or airborne transmission.
B. The Police Department of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
C. Any person found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be subject to a maximum fine
of $1,000 for each violation.

Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon adoption and filing in the office of the
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 3 of 2021 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on January 19, 2021, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
, 20 , in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 20 _

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
4.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20 of

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20
, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20_
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Date:

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the following Roll
Call Vote: Trustee Habib, Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor
Pugh Aye
Resolution #10-2021
WHEREAS the Village adopted Local Law No. 9 of 2020 on November 16, 2020, to establish Chapter
158, Masks and Face Coverings, in the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson; and
WHEREAS such local law requires the use of masks and face-coverings in certain areas during public
health emergencies; and
WHEREAS the New York State Department of Health has submitted comments to the Village regarding
the law; and
WHEREAS NYSDOH has recommended the removal of certain exemptions and the revision of the fine
schedule in accordance with state law; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2021 has been drafted to reflect such language; and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 19, 2021,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 2 of 2021 to amend Chapter 158, Masks and Face Coverings, in the Code of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 3 of 2021.

Dated: January 19, 2021
State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New
York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been
duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on January 19"', 2021.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village
this 22"^* day of January 2021.
