---
title: "Local Law 4-2016: AMENDING CHAPTER 168 PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS PROHIBITING THE PLAYING OF MUSIC"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2016-09-19
---

Local Law 4-2016
Filed: 2016-09-19
AMENDING CHAPTER 168 PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS PROHIBITING THE PLAYING OF MUSIC IN VILLAGE AND AMENDING CHAPTER 160 NOISE ELIMINATING THE EXCEPTION FOR SPORT ACTIVITIES

New York state Department of state
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001

www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 4 of the year 2016

A local law amending chapter 168 Parks and Recreation Areas prohibiting the playing of music
in village parks and amending chapter 160 Noise eliminating the exception for sports
activities.

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 168-8 is hereby amended to add Letter L as follows:
Utilize broadcasting equipment except as authorized in advance by the Village Manager or her designee.
Section 2. Chapter 160-7 is hereby amended as follows:
Letter D is amended as follows:
Sounds connected with any organized sporting event of any public school conducted on public school property. For
the purpose of this section D, field days and sporting practices shall be deemed organized sporting events.
Section 3. This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 4 of 2016
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
was duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees on September 6, 2016 in accordance with the applicable
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(repassed after disapproval) by the on , 20 and was deemed duly adopted
in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(repassed after disapproval) by the on , 20 .
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(repassed after disapproval) by the on , 20 .
Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on , 20 , became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November , 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1 above.

Clerk of the county legislative body/City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

On motion of TRUSTEE ANDERSON, seconded by TRUSTEE PUGH, the following
resolution was adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS, the Village Board is considering taking an action to adopt Local Law
Introductory No. 5 of 2016 to amend chapter 168 Parks and Recreation Areas,
prohibiting the use of broadcasting equipment in village parks, except by prior
approval of the Village Manager, and amending Chapter 160, Noise eliminating the
exception for non-school sports activities located on school property; and
WHEREAS, on June 27, 2016 the proposed Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2016 was
reviewed and discussed at a Work Session of the Village Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on September 6, 2016,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2016 amending Chapter 168 Parks and Recreation
Areas prohibiting the use of broadcasting equipment in village parks, except by prior
approval of the Village Manager, and amending Chapter 160 Noise eliminating the
exception for non-school sports activities located on school property.
Dated: September 6, 2016

State of New York )
County of Westchester ) ss:

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on September 6, 2016.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 08 day of September, 2016.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
