```yaml
title: "Local Law 4-2015: TO AMEND CHAPTER 223 OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO ALLOW THE VILLAGE TO CHARGE FOR THE "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2015-06-09
```

Local Law 4-2015
Filed: 2015-06-09
TO AMEND CHAPTER 223 OF THE VILLAGE CODE TO ALLOW THE VILLAGE TO CHARGE FOR THE TESTING OF WATER METERS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 122310001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County
City
Town
Village (Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 4 of the year 2015
A local law to amend chapter 223 of the Village Code to allow the Village to charge for the testing of water meters

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

County
City
Town
[x]Village (Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 223, Section 6, Letter G of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
G. In the case of a disputed account involving the accuracy of a meter, such meter shall be tested, if within the Department's Jurisdiction, upon a request of the owner or consumer. In the event that the meter so tested upon a request of the owner/consumer is found to have an error in registration (less than 3%, plus or minus), the bill will be increased or decreased accordingly, but no retroactive reimbursement shall be made to the owner/consumer for previous billing period(s). All meter testing shall be paid by the owner/consumer and payment shall be made at the time the request for the testing is made. If the meter so tested shall be found to have no error in registration (less than 3%, plus or minus) the payment shall be retained by the Department as compensation for such test. If the meter is found to be over-registering by more than the aforesaid allowable rate, then the cost of the test shall be borne by the Department, and the amount of the payment shall be returned to the owner or consumer. The fee for testing of meters shall be set by resolution by the Board of Trustees.

Section 2. This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 4 of 2015, of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees, on June 1, 2015, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of , was duly passed by the , on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the and was deemed duly adopted on 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the on 20 . Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the on 20 . Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 20 , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1 above.

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 4 of the year 2015
A local law to amend Chapter 223

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 223, Section 6, Letter G of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
G. In the case of a disputed account involving the accuracy of a meter, such meter shall be tested, if within the Department's Jurisdiction, upon a request of the owner or consumer. In the event that the meter so tested upon a request of the owner/consumer is found to have an error in registration (less than 3%, plus or minus), the bill will be increased or decreased accordingly, but no retroactive reimbursement shall be made to the owner/consumer for previous billing period(s). All meter testing shall be paid by the owner/consumer and payment shall be made at the time the request for the testing is made. If the meter so tested shall be found to have no error in registration (less than 3%, plus or minus) the payment shall be retained by the Department as compensation for such test. If the meter is found to be over-registering by more than the aforesaid allowable rate, then the cost of the test shall be borne by the Department, and the amount of the payment shall be returned to the owner or consumer. The fee for testing of meters shall be set by resolution by the Board of Trustees.

Section 2. This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following resolution was adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York; with a 4-0 vote (Trustee Levitt not present at the time of this vote).
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend chapter 223 of the Village Code to allow the Village to charge for the testing of water meters; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2015 has been drafted to reflect such language; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on June 01, 2015,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2015 to amend chapter 223 of the Village Code to allow the Village to charge for testing of water meters, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 4 of 2015.
Date: June 01, 2015
State of New York
County of Westchester

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on June 1st, 2015.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village this 2nd day of June, 2015.
