```yaml
title: "Local Law 4-2024: AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MU"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-03-08
```

Local Law 4-2024
Filed: 2024-03-08
AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

FILED
•County

nCity

DTown

^Village

STATERECORDS

MAR 0 8 2024

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 04 of the year 2024

A local law AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT
(Insert Title)

ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW §3-C

Be it enacted by the ^"'^9^ ^'^^^^ of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

GCity

DTown

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 4 OF 2024
A LOCAL LAW AUTHORIZING A PROPERTY TAX LEVY IN EXCESS OF THE LIMIT
ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW §3-C
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section 1. Legislative Intent
It is the intent of this local law to allow the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to adopt a budget for the
fiscal year commencing June 1, 2024 that requires a real property tax levy in excess of the "tax
levy limit" as defined by General Municipal Law § 3-c.
Section 2. Authority
This local law is adopted pursuant to subdivision 5 of General Municipal Law §3-c, which
expressly authorizes a local government's governing body to override the property tax cap for the
coming fiscal year by the adoption of a local law approved by a vote of sixty percent (60%) of said
governing body.
Section 3. Tax Levy Limit Override
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, County of Westchester, is hereby
authorized to adopt a budget for the fiscal year commencing June 1, 2024 that requires a real
property tax levy in excess of the amount otherwise prescribed in General Municipal Law §3-c.
Section 4. Severability
If a court determines that any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, or part of this local law or
the application thereof to any person, firm or corporation, or circumstance is invalid or
unconstitutional, the court's order or judgment shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the remainder
of this local law, but shall be confined in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph,
subdivision, or part of this local law or in its application to the person, individual, firm or
corporation or circumstance, directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment or order
shall be rendered.
Section 5. Effective date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing ofthis local law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 4 of 2024
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on February 28, 2024, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of of
was duly passed by the on 20 . and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the on 20 .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
, on 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the on 20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*}
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

• Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto loca! laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20
of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (spec)al)(general) election held on 20 , became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20
of
the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 ofthe Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with the following a 5-0 vote:
Resolution #31-2024
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that establishes a
"property tax cap" on the amount that a local government's property tax levy can increase each
year; and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes charged on the
municipality's taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at 2% or the rate of inflation,
whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to protect
the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event that an override is necessary, the law
enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2024 has been drafted to override the "property
tax cap" law enacted by State Legislature if necessary; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on February 28, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2024 to override the "property tax cap" law enacted by State
Legislature if necessary, which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 4 of 2024.
Dated: February 28, 2024

State of New York )
ss:
County of Westchester )
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village
held on the 28th of February 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village.
Village Clerk
(Seal)
