---
title: "Local Law 4-2001: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2001-03-23
---

Local Law 4-2001
Filed: 2001-03-23

Local Law Filing

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

MAR 2 3 2001

Croton on Hudson

Village

Local Law No. 4 of the year 2001

(Insert Title)

A local law authorizing the issuance of a special permit for the expansion,
extension, reconstruction, rebuilding, or relocation of
certain uses and buildings, located in RA-40 Districts.

Be it enacted by the

Board of Trustees

of the

Village

of Croton-on-Hudson

Sec. 1. Section 230-9 of the Zoning Law is hereby amended as follows:
Deleting parenthetical clause in paragraph 4, and adding the
following at end of paragraph 4: A special permit shall be required
for the expansion, extension, reconstruction, rebuilding or relocation of
any use or building described in this paragraph (4), notwithstanding that it
represents an expansion, extension, reconstruction, rebuilding or
relocation of a use or building legally in existence on January 1, 2001.
Sec. 2. This local law shall become effective upon filing in the office of the
Secretary of State.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

(1)

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 4
of 2001 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Board of Trustees on March 19, 2001, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted on --
19—,
in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
disapproval) by the
on
19—. Such local law was submitted
to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
disapproval) by the
on
19—. Such local law was subject to
permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
19— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or Includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of-having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
— 19---,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—-, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Village Clerk

Date: 3/22/01

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title

City
Village Croton on Hudson

Date: 3/22/01
(3)
