---
title: "Local Law 4-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-03-08
---

Local Law 4-1999
Filed: 1999-03-08

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

LOCAL Law FILING

162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

County

Village

Local Law No. 4 of the year 1999

entitled "Proposed Zoning Text Amendments Regarding
(Insert Title)

Accordance with Article XIV, Amendments and Interpretation, of Chapter
230, Zoning, of the Croton-on-Hudson Village Code."

Be It enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

SECTION I. PURPOSE AND INTENT
The Village's signage regulations have been found to, in certain cases, permit exceedingly
large and thereby objectionable signage. Although a billboard which advertises a "business,
commodity, service, entertainment or attraction sold, offered or existing elsewhere than
upon the same lot where such sign is displayed" is prohibited, such a sign advertising a use
on the same lot where such sign is displayed is not expressly prohibited. Further, the
provisions of the Zoning Law do not uniformly prohibit a sign from projecting vertically
above the roofline or from extending horizontally beyond the limits of the building on
which it is mounted. The proposed amendments herein rectify these problems with the
Village's signage regulations.
SECTION II. ZONING AMENDMENTS
A.

The definition of the word "billboard" in § 230-4 of the Code is hereby revised to
read as follows:
BILLBOARD - The type of sign commonly known as a "billboard," which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service, entertainment or

attraction sold, offered or existing on the same lot or elsewhere than on the
same lot where such sign is displayed.
B.

A new § 230-44.D is hereby added which shall read as follows:
D.

C.

Section 230-15.B(2)(a) is hereby revised to read as follows:
(a)

D.

No sign shall project vertically above the roofline or extend
horizontally beyond the limits of the building on which it is mounted,
painted or otherwise attached. If the building is flat-roofed, the
roofline shall be deemed the eaveline for the purpose hereof, except
that if a parapet extends across the entire front of the building, the
sign may extend to the top of the parapet. Where this section may be
in conflict with other sections of this chapter, this section shall
control.

The aggregate area, in square feet, shall not be greater than two (2)
times the length, in feet, of the wall on which it is placed, except that
said aggregate area shall in no event exceed four hundred (400)
square feet and the area of any individual sign shall not exceed two
hundred (200) square feet. Further, the smaller dimension of any
rectangular sign shall not exceed six (6) feet.

Section 230-16.A(8)(b) is hereby revised to read as follows:
(b)

The aggregate area, in square feet, of all signs on any wall shall not be
greater than two (2) times the length, in feet, of the wall on which
they are placed, except that said aggregate area shall in no event
exceed four hundred (400) square feet and the area of any individual
sign shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet. Further, the
smaller dimension of any rectangular sign shall not exceed six (6)
feet.

SECTION III. EFFECTIVE DATE
This local law shall take effect immediately upon its filing with the Secretary of State.
SECTION IV. SEPARABILITY
The provisions of this local law are separable and if any provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part thereof is held illegal, invalid or unconstitutional, or inapplicable
to any person or circumstance, such illegality, invalidity, unconstitutionality, or
inapplicability shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, clauses, sentences,

subsections, words, or parts of this local law or their application to other persons or
circumstances. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that this local law would
have been adopted if such illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional provision, clause, sentence,
subsection, word or part had not been included therein, and if such person or circumstance,
to which the local law or part thereof is held inapplicable, had been specifically exempt
therefrom.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 4
of 1999
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village)
of Croton-on-Hudson
was duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees
on March 1, 1999, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19—, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted on

19—,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19—, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

on

19—. Such local law was submitted

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19—, in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19—, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

on

19—. Such local law was subject to

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19—, in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the City of -----having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19—-,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Village Clerk
or officer designated by local legislative body

(Seal)

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature

Village Attorney
Title

City

Village
Date

Croton on Hudson
(3)
