---
title: "Local Law 4-2000: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-08-16
---

Local Law 4-2000
Filed: 2000-08-16

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)

Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

Croton on Hudson
Of-
Village
Local Law No. 4 of 2000
(Insert Tille)

A local law electing a retirement incentive program authorized by Chapter 86, Law
of the Village of Croton on Hudson.

Be it enacted by the

Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
of the

Village
as follows:

Section 1.

The Village of Croton on Hudson hereby elected to
Provide all of its eligible employees with a retirement
incentive program authorized by Chapter 86, Laws of
2000.

Section 2.

The commencement date of the retirement incentive
program shall be October 10, 2000.

Section 3.

The open period during which eligible employees may
Retire and receive the additional retirement benefit, shall
Be 81 days in length.

Section 4.

The actuarial present value of the additional retirement benefits
payable pursuant to the provisions of this local law shall be
paid as one lump sum, or in five annual installments, as
determined by the Village. The amount of the annual payment
shall be determined by the Actuary of the New York State and Local
Employees' Retirement System, and it shall be paid by the
Village of Croton on Hudson for each employee who receives
the retirement benefits payable under this local law.

Section 5.

This act shall take effect August 30, 2000.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev.7/91)

(1)

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 4 of 2000
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton on Hudson
was duly passed by the Board Of Trustees on July 24, 2000 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
and was deemed duly adopted on
19—, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the
on-
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
19—-. Such local law was submitted
to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
19—- , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
19 — . Such local law was subject to
permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

19-— , in

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
19----,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 19
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Date: 8/16/00

Village Clerk

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature

Village Attorney
Title

Village
Date: 8/16/00
Croton on Hudson

(3)

On motion of TRUSTEE McCarthy, seconded by TRUSTEE Watkins, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York
WHEREAS, two (2) employees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson have
petitioned the Village Manager to adopt a local law authorized by Chapter 86, Laws of
2000 for eligible employees to participate in the 2000 NYS Retirement Incentive
Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Manager has apprised the Village Board of those
employees wishing to take part in said incentive program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Manager has set October 10, 2000 as the commencement
date for the 2000 NYS Retirement Incentive Program, and December 29, 2000 as the
closing date encompassing a total of 81 days in which eligible employees may choose to
retire,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby
instructed to proceed with setting the public hearing on Monday, August 7, 2000, at 8:00
p.m. on the Local Law electing a retirement incentive by Chapter 86, Laws of 2000.

July 24, 2000
