---
title: "Local Law 4-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1998-09-24
---

Local Law 4-1998
Filed: 1998-09-24

Local Law rlllftg

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated a^'' italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

Croton on Hudson

Village
Local Law No 4 of the year 1998

Duties of Village Engineer

Be it enacted by the

Board of Trustees

of the

Village of Croton on Hudson

as follows:

Sec. 1. § 230-79 of the Village Code is hereby amended to add a new paragraph C, reading as follows:
C. If, in the judgment of the Village Engineer, a building under construction is sited so close to a required setback line as to create a reasonable possibility that in the construction process the building will intrude upon the required setback, then the Village Engineer is empowered to require the owner to provide an "as built" survey after the foundation is poured and before any additional construction proceeds: and his notice to that effect to the owner or builder shall operate to suspend construction until such "as Built" survey is furnished to him and he determines that no intrusion into the required setback or other violation has occurred.

Sec. 2. This local law shall take effect immediately in filing in the office of the Secretary of State.

Sec. 1. § 230-79 of the Village Code is hereby amended to add a new paragraph C, reading as follows:
C. If, in the judgment of the Village Engineer, a building under construction is sited too close to a required setback line as to create a reasonable possibility that in the construction process the building will intrude upon the required setback, then the Village Engineer is empowered to require the owner to provide an "as built" survey after the foundation is poured and before any additional construction proceeds: and his notice to that effect to the owner or builder shall operate to suspend construction until such "as built" survey is furnished to him and he determines that no intrusion into the required setback or other violation has occurred.
Sec. 2. This local law shall take effect immediately in filing in the office of the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 4 of 1998 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton on Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on 9/8, 1998, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on , 19---, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the and was deemed duly adopted on 19---, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. - of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19---, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the on 19---. Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 19---- , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the on 19---. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 19.--- , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or. If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 19--, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 19 of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November 19---, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Village Clerk
or officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTY OF Westchester

I , the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title

Village of Croton on Hudson

Date:
