```yaml
title: "Local Law 5-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2000-01-01
```

Local Law 5-1998
Filed: 2000-01-01

Section 137-3. Prohibited Acts.
No person shall write, paint, draw or otherwise affix any inscription, figure or mark of any type on any building, public or private, or any other property, real or personal, owned, operated or maintained by any public benefit corporation, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson or by any person, corporation or other entity or any agency or instrumentality thereof, without the express written permission of the owner of the property or his agent.

Section 137-4. Responsibilities of owner.
It is the responsibility of the owner, or his agent, of the building or structure which has been defaced by graffiti without the owner's, or his agent's, prior written permission to completely remove said graffiti from the building or structure within twenty (20) days of written notice of the defacement by the Village Code Enforcement Officer, Chief of Police or the designee of either of them, said notice having been served personally or as otherwise permitted by law. For good cause shown, the twenty (20)- day period may be extended by either the Village Code Enforcement Officer or the Chief of Police.

Section 137-5. Penalties for offenses.
A. Any person who violates § 3 or § 4 of this chapter shall be punished subject to the penalties prescribed by Section 1-12 of the Village Code.
B. In addition to any other penalty authorized by this section, any person convicted of violating § 3 shall, if the graffiti has not yet been removed, be required to completely remove said graffiti from the building, structure or property so as to restore the site to the condition existing prior to commission of the violation.

Section 137-6. When effective.
This chapter shall become effective upon filing of the same with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 1998 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Village Trustees on 10/5/98, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the and was deemed duly adopted on 19—, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the ,on 19—, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the on 19 Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 19--- , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19- , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the on 19 — , Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 19-— , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 19—-, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November 19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph one, above.

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF Westchester
I , the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title
Village
Date: 10/19/98
