---
title: "Local Law 5-2016: AMENDING CHAPTER 197 SECTION 15 SNOW AND ICE ON SIDEWALKS 168"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2016-09-30
---

Local Law 5-2016
Filed: 2016-09-30
AMENDING CHAPTER 197 SECTION 15 SNOW AND ICE ON SIDEWALKS 168

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

•County
□City
□Town
[x]Village
(Select one:)
of Croton-on-Hudson

FILED
STATE RECORDS

SEP 3 0 2016
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law No. 5 of the year 2016

A local law amending chapter 197 Section 15 Snow and Ice on Sidewalks 168
(insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
of the

•County
□City
□Town
[x]Village
(Select one:)
of Croton-on-Hudson
as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 197-15 is hereby amended as follows:
Collection of costs for removal by Village. The Village shall promptly present to the owner or occupant of each parcel
a bill for the removal of snow and ice, or covering of a sidewalk as provided herein. If not paid within 30 days, the
cost thereof shall be assessed against the property, added to his tax bill, and become a lien thereon, collectible in the
same manner as delinquent Village taxes and assessments.
Section 2. This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that, the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 5 of 2016 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
on September 19, 2016, in accordance with the applicable
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
on , 20, and was (approved)(not approved)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
on , 20, and was (approved)(not approved)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20. Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum; and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
(Name of Legislative Body)
on , 20, and was (approved)(not approved)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on , 20, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

(Seal)

Page 4 of 4

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Local Law No. 5 of the year 2016

A local law amending chapter 197 Section 15 Snow and Ice on Sidewalks 168

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. Chapter 197-15 is hereby amended as follows:
Collection of costs for removal by Village. The Village shall promptly present to
the owner or occupant of each parcel a bill for the removal of snow and ice, or
covering of a sidewalk as provided herein. If not paid within 30 days, the cost
thereof shall be assessed against the property, added to his tax bill, and become a
lien thereon, collectible in the same manner as delinquent Village taxes and
assessments.
Section 2. This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

On motion of TRUSTEE WALSH, seconded by TRUSTEE PUGH, the
following resolution was adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York; with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village Board is considering taking an action to adopt Local Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2016 to amend Section 1, Chapter 197-15 collection of costs
for snow and ice removal by the Village; and

WHEREAS, the amendment would remove the requirement that the Superintendant
of Public Works certify a bill to owners or occupants of parcels who are delinquent in
removing snow and ice; and

WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on September 19, 2016,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2016 amending Section 1, Chapter 197-15
collection of costs for snow and ice removal by the Village.
Dated: September 19, 2016
State of New York )
ss:
County of Westchester )

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on September 19, 2016.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 23rd day of September, 2016.

(Seal)
