```yaml
title: "Local Law 5-2019: TO REPEAL LOCAL LAW NUMBER 2 OF 2019 AND TO REPEAL THE OVERRIDE OF THE TAX LEVY "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-05-22
```

Local Law 5-2019
Filed: 2019-05-22
TO REPEAL LOCAL LAW NUMBER 2 OF 2019 AND TO REPEAL THE OVERRIDE OF THE TAX LEVY LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW 3-C

New York state Department of state
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

GCity

GTown

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 05 of the year 2019

A local law TO REPEAL LOCAL LAW NUMBER 2 OF 2019 AND TO REPEAL
(Insert Title)

THE OVERRIDE OF THE TAX LEVY LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL
MUNICIPAL LAW §3-c

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

QCity

•Town

^Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 5-2019
A LOCAL LAW TO REPEAL LOCAL LAW NUMBER 2 OF 2019 AND TO REPEAL
THE OVERRIDE OF THE TAX LEVY LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN GENERAL
MUNICIPAL LAW §3-c
Be it enacted by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
SECTION 1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT: This Local Law shall be known as "Local Law
Number 5 of 2019". It is the intent of this Local Law to repeal Local Law Number 2 of 2019, and
To thus reinstate the limits on the amount of real property taxes that may be levied by the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson pursuant to General Municipal Law §3-c.
SECTION 2: EFFECT: This Local Law hereby thus repeals in its entirety said Local Law
Number 2 of 2019, and declares the same of no force or effect, and thus the Village of Crotonon-Hudson repeals the prior tax cap override local law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and
reinstates the tax levy limits imposed by General Municipal Law §3-e.
SECTION 3: SEVERABILITY: If any portion this Local Law, or the application thereof to
any person, entity, or circumstance, shall be determined by any court or tribunal of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, such determination shall be confined in its operation
to the invalid part hereof, or in its application to such person, entity, or circumstance as is
directly involved in the controversy in which such determination shall have been rendered, and
the remainder of this Local Law shall not be impaired thereby and such determination shall not
be deemed or construed to apply to other persons, entities, or circumstances.
SECTION 4: EFFECTIVE DATE: This Local Law shall take effect immediately.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by loca! legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 5 of 2019 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on April 15, 2019, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on , 20 .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer')
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no vatid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
, 20_. , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the City of , having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on , 20 , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of , State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November , 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1 above.

Date:

On motion of TRUSTEE OLVER, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the following vote:
5-0.
Resolution #57-2019
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that establishes a "property tax
cap" on the amount that a local government's property tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS, this law has been effective for local governments since 2012; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to protect the Village
from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, Local Law No. 2 of 2019 to override the "property tax cap" law was adopted by the Village
Board of Trustees at the January 22, 2019, Board Meeting; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is not anticipating adopting a budget exceeding the
"property tax cap" law enacted by State Legislature and would like to repeal Local Law No. 2 of 2019,
and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on April 15, 2019,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 4 of 2019 to repeal the prior tax cap override Local Law 2 of 2019 and reinstates the tax
levy limits imposed by General Municipal Law §3-c which upon adoption will become Local Law No. 5
of 2019.

Dated: April 15, 2019

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of
New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and
has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on January 22,
2019.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village
this 23rd day of January 2019.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
