---
title: "Local Law 5-2015: TO ADD CHAPTER 118 TITLED COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION(ENERGY) PROGRAM"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2015-07-20
---

Local Law 5-2015
Filed: 2015-07-20
TO ADD CHAPTER 118 TITLED COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION(ENERGY) PROGRAM

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
☐ County ☐ City
☐ Town
[x] Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 5 of the year 2015
A local law to add Chapter 118 titled Community Choice Aggregation(Energy) Program

(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

of the

☐ County ☐ City
☐ Town
[x] Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

SEE ATTACHED

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 5 of 2015
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees
on July 13, 2015
in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
.
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of:
20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 , became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1 above.

Clerk of the County legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF
STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 05 of the year 2015

A LOCAL LAW TO ESTABLISH A COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION
(ENERGY) PROGRAM IN THE Village of Croton on Hudson
Be it enacted by the Village of Croton on Hudson of the County of Westchester as follows:

Section 1. The Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson is hereby amended by adding a new
Chapter 118 titled "COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION (ENERGY) PROGRAM," to read
as follows:

ARTICLE I
§1. Legislative Findings; Intent and Purpose; Authority.
A. It is the policy of both the Village of Croton on Hudson and the State of New York to reduce
costs and provide cost certainty for the purpose of economic development, to promote
deeper penetration of energy efficiency and renewable energy resources such as wind and
solar, and wider deployment of distributed energy resources as well as to examine the retail
energy markets and increase participation of and benefits for residential and Small
Commercial customers in those markets. Among the policies and models that may offer
benefits in New York is community choice aggregation, which allows local governments to
determine the default supplier of electricity and natural gas on behalf of its residential and
Small Commercial customers.
B. The purpose of this CCA Program is to allow participating local governments including the
Village of Croton on Hudson to procure energy supply service for their residential and Small
Commercial customers, who will have the opportunity to opt out of the procurement, while
maintaining transmission and distribution service from the existing Distribution Utility.
This Chapter establishes a program that will allow the Village of Croton on Hudson to put
out for bid the total amount of natural gas and/or electricity being purchased by local
residential and Small Commercial customers. Bundled Customers will have the opportunity
to have more control to lower their overall energy costs, to spur clean energy innovation
and investment, to improve customer choice and value, and to protect the environment;
thereby, fulfilling the purposes of this Chapter and fulfilling an important public purpose.
C. The Village of Croton on Hudson is authorized to implement this COMMUNITY CHOICE
AGGREGATION (ENERGY) PROGRAM pursuant to Section 10(l)(ii)(a)(12) of the New
York Municipal Home Rule Law; and State of New York Public Service Commission Case
No. 14-M-0564, Petition of Sustainable Westchester for Expedited Approval for the
Implementation of a Pilot Community Choice Aggregation Program within the County of

Westchester, Order Granting Petition in Part (issued February 26, 2015) as may be
amended, including subsequent orders of the Public Service Commission issued in
connection with or related to Case No. 14-M-0564 (collectively, the "Order"). Order shall
also mean orders of the Public Service Commission related to State of New York Public
Service Commission Case No. 14-M-0224, Proceeding on Motion of the Commission to
Enable Community Choice Aggregation Programs (issued December 15, 2014) to the extent
that orders related to Case No. 14-M-0224 enable actions by the Village not otherwise
permitted pursuant to orders related to Case 14-M-0564; provided, however, that in the
event of any conflict between orders from Case No. 14-M-0564 and orders from Case No
14-M-0224, orders from Case No 14-M-0564 shall govern the CCA Program.
D. This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "COMMUNITY CHOICE
AGGREGATION (ENERGY) PROGRAM Law of the Village of Croton on Hudson".

§2. Definitions.
For purposes of this Chapter, and unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms in this Chapter shall have the meanings employed in the State of New York
Public Service Commission's Uniform Business Practices or, if not so defined there, as indicated
below:
Bundled Customers - Residential and Small Commercial customers of electricity or
natural gas ("fuels") who are purchasing the fuels from the Distribution Utility.
Small Commercial - Non-residential customers as permitted by the Order.
Community Choice Aggregation Program or CCA Program- A municipal energy
procurement program, which replaces the incumbent utility as the default Supplier for all
Bundled Customers within the Village of Croton on Hudson.
Distribution Utility - Owner or controller of the means of distribution of the natural gas
or electricity that is regulated by the Public Service Commission.
Public Service Commission - New York State Public Service Commission.
Suppliers - Energy service companies (ESCOs) that procure electric power and natural gas
for Bundled Customers in connection with this Chapter or, alternatively, generators of
electricity and natural gas or other entities who procure and resell electricity or natural gas.
Sustainable Westchester - A not-for-profit organization comprised of member municipalities in Westchester County, New York.
§3. Establishment of a COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION (ENERGY) Program.
A. A COMMUNITY CHOICE AGGREGATION (ENERGY) PROGRAM is hereby
established by the Village of Croton on Hudson, whereby the Village shall work together
with Sustainable Westchester to implement the CCA Program to the full extent permitted
by the Order, as set forth more fully herein. The Village's role under the CCA Program
involves the aggregating of the electric and/or natural gas supply of its residents and the
entering into a contract with one or more Suppliers for supply and services. Under the CCA

Program, the operation and ownership of the utility service shall remain with the
Distribution Utility.
B. The Village's participation in a CCA Program constitutes neither the purchase of a public
utility system, nor the furnishing of utility service. The Village will not take over any part
of the electric or gas transmission or distribution system and will not furnish any type of
utility service, but will instead negotiate with Suppliers on behalf of participating residential
and Small Commercial customers.
C. In order to implement the CCA Program, the Village will adopt one or more resolutions that
outline the process of and conditions for participation in the CCA Program, including but
not limited to signing a contract for a compliant bid with one or more Suppliers, all as
consistent with the Local Law and the Order.
D. The Public Service Commission supervises retail markets and participants in these markets
through legislative and regulatory authority and the Uniform Business Practices, which
includes rules relating to the eligibility of participating ESCOs, the operation by which
ESCOs provide energy services, and the terms on which customers may be enrolled with
ESCOs.
§4. Procedures for Eligibility; Customer Data Sharing.
A. As permitted by the Order, the Village may request from the Distribution Utilities
aggregated customer information by fuel type and service classification on a rolling basis.
B. Sustainable Westchester, on behalf of the Village, shall issue one or more requests for
proposals to Suppliers to provide energy to participants and may then award a contract in
accordance with the CCA Program.
C. Sustainable Westchester or the Village if the Village so chooses, will then request individual
customer data from the Distribution Utility in accordance with the CCA Program.
D. Sustainable Westchester or the Village if the Village so chooses, and the selected Supplier
will then notify Bundled Customers of the contract terms and their opportunity to opt out
of the CCA Program.
E. In accordance with and for purposes of the Order, Consolidated Edison Company of New
York, Inc. will provide to Sustainable Westchester aggregate and customer-specific data
(including usage data, capacity tag obligations, account numbers, and service addresses) of
all Bundled Customers in the Village not currently enrolled with an ESCO.
F. Sustainable Westchester and the Village, will protect customer information as required by
law, subject to the Order and the limitations of the New York State Freedom of Information
Law.
§5. Choice of Energy Supplier; Opt-Out Notice and Procedure.
A. The Village or in conjunction with the ESCO will notify its residential and Small
Commercial customers, by letter notice, of the Village's decision to establish the CCA
Program, of the contract terms with an ESCO, and of the opportunity to opt out of the CCA
Program.

B. The letter notice will be sent to each customer at the address provided by the Distribution
Utility and explain the CCA Program and the material provisions of the ESCO contract,
identify the methods by which the customer can opt out of the CCA Program, and provide
information on how the customer can access additional information about the CCA
Program.
C. The opt-out period shall be twenty (20) days.
D. CCA Program Bundled Customers, upon enrollment, will receive a welcome letter that will
explain the customers' options for canceling the enrollment if they believe they were
enrolled incorrectly or otherwise decide to withdraw from the CCA Program in favor of
another Supplier. The welcome letter also will explain that residential customers are
entitled to the added protection of the mandated Three (3) Day rescission period as detailed
in Section 5(B)(3) of the Uniform Business Practices.

§6. Verification and Reporting.
A. Sustainable Westchester shall be responsible for filing an annual report with the Public
Service Commission, which identifies the number of customers enrolled in the CCA
Program by municipality and customer class, the number of customers who returned to
utility service or service with another Supplier during the reporting period, and the average
cost of commodity supply by month for the reporting period.

Section 2. This local law shall take effect upon filing with the Secretary of State.

On motion of Trustee Slippen and seconded by Trustee Pugh, the following
resolution was adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote, 1 abstention.

WHEREAS, on April 20, 2015, the Village Board of Trustees approved a
resolution to enter into an agreement to participate in a Sustainable
Westchester Community Choice Aggregation ("CCA") program for the
purpose of procuring an energy supplier who will contract with the Village
to supply energy for its residents at a price guaranteed to be less than the
price offered by Con Edison; and
WHEREAS, at the Work Session of June 8, 2015, the Village Board
reviewed and discussed draft legislation that would further define and
establish procedures for the Community Choice Aggregation Energy
Program; and
WHEREAS, Local Law introductory No. 7 of 2015 has been drafted; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on July 13, 2015,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of
Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2015 by adding
chapter 118 of the Village Code establishing procedures for the Community
Choice Aggregation Energy Program, which upon adoption will become
Local Law No. 5 of 2015.
Dated: July 13, 2015
State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of
an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board
of Trustees of said Village held on July 13th, 2015.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
the said Village this 14th day of July, 2015.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
