```yaml
title: "Local Law 5-2025: TO ADD CHAPTER 8 TO THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON AND TERMINATE TH"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-04-23
```

Local Law 5-2025
Filed: 2025-04-23
TO ADD CHAPTER 8 TO THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON AND TERMINATE THE VILLAGE'S STATUS AS AN ASSESSING UNIT

New Yorl< State

NEW
YORK
STATE

Department of State
DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS,
STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Locat Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the locai government listed below:
of the year 20 £ 5
Local Law Title:

TO ADD CHAPTER 8 TO THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON AND TERMINATE THE VILLAGE'S STATUS AS AN
ASSESSING UNIT

Be itenacterl hy the Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name ofLegislative Body)

• County
(Select one)

•

City

•

Town

[X] Village

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Govemment)

For Office Use Only

FILED
STATE RECORDS

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Department

of State Local

Law Index Number:

S

of the year 20

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body ofthe local governmenL)

Page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not appiicabte.)
1. (Final adoption by tocat legislative body onty.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number 2 ^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

Croton-on-Hudson

Village Board of Trustees
., . ,

of

was duly passed by the

^ „ March 26
on

„„25
20

=„
in accordance

(Name of Legislative Body)
with the applicable provisions of law.
2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify ttiat the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of the

.was duly passed by the
on

20

and was

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)
on

20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number

of 20

(County)(City){Town)(Viltage) of

of the

was duly passed bythe
on

20, ,

, and was

(Name ofLegislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

20

,

Such local law was subnnitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (genera!)(special)(annual) election held on
20

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subjectto permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition w a s filed requesting referendum.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

of the

was duly passed by the
_on

20

andwas

(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved) (not app roved) (repassed after disapproval) by the

,

on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

20
requesting such referendum was filed as of

. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
20

in accordance with the

applicable provisions of law.
• Elective Chiief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if ttiere be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, ttie mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City locat law concerning Charter reviston proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
the City of

of 20

of

having submitted to referendum pursuant to

the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the {specie I) (gen era I) election held on
20

became operative.

6, (County tocal taw concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number
the County of

of 20

of

State of New York, having been submitted to

the electors at the General Election of November

20

pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of

section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized f o r m o f final adoption has been followed, ptease provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph

above.
Pauline DiSanto

Clerl< of the cou ntvje^sl ative b o ^ , City, fownor'vilTage Clerk or
officerdesignatedoy local legisjatrve-trody
(Seal)

March 26, 2025
(Date)

page 3 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 05 of 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO ADD CHAPTER 8 TO THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON AND TERMINATE THE VILLAGE'S STATUS AS AN
ASSESSING UNIT

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, as follows;
SECTION 1. Chapter 8, entitled, "Assessments, Real Property Tax" is hereby adopted to read
as follows:
Chapter 8. Assessments, Real Property Tax
§ 8-1. Legislative intent.
The intent of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is to
implement section 1402(3) of the Real Property Tax Law providing for the
voluntary termination of the Village's status as an assessing unit, as provided in
the Village Law and the Real Property Tax Law.
§ 8-2. Termination of Village as assessing unit.
On the effective date of this chapter, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson shall cease
to be an assessing unit.
§ 8-3. Position of Assessor abolished.
The position of Assessor of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby abolished.
§ 8-4. Board of Assessment Review abolished.
The Board of Assessment Review in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
abolished.
§ 8-5. Taxes to be levied.
On or after the effective date of this chapter, taxes in the Village of Croton-onHudson shall be levied on a copy of the applicable part of the assessment roll of
the Town of Cortlandt, with the taxable status date of such Town controlling for
village purposes.

SECTION 2. Effective date; referendum.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of
State, provided, however, that such local law is subject to permissive referendum
and the Viilage Clerk shall forthwith proceed to notice such fact and conduct such
referendum if required by petition.

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Tmstees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #62-2025
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 14 of
2024, a local law to add Chapter 8, Assessments, Real Property Tax, to the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson to consolidate the Village's assessment unit with the Town of Cortlandt; and
WHEREAS, New York State law authorizes villages to consolidate their assessment status and have towns
provide this service; and
WHEREAS, the ViHage of Croton-on-Hudson has been discussing this possibility since at least 2012; and
WHEREAS, consolidating the Village's Assessment Roll with the Town would provide a fmancial savings
to the Village and provide residents with one assessed valuation for the entirety of their tax bill, as opposed
to the current system of one valuation for Village taxes and one valuation for town/county/school taxes; and
WHEREAS, the Village previously held a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 14 of 2024 on
November 20, 2024; and
WHEREAS, a second Public Hearing was opened and closed on March 12, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board had additional discussion on this local law at their work session on March
19, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED; that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 14 of 2024 to add Chapter 8, Assessments, Real Property Tax, to the Code of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson to consolidate the Village's assessment unit with the Town of Cortlandt, which upon
adoption will become Local Law No. 5 of 2025.

Dated: March 26, 2025

State ofNew York

)

ss;

Cou nty of Westchester

)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk ofthe Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State ofNew
York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and has been
duly adopted at ^regular meeting ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 26^*' of March 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal ofthe said Village this
28'*' dayofMj
