```yaml
title: "Local Law 6-2024: TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 230, TO PROV"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-04-11
```

Local Law 6-2024
Filed: 2024-04-11
TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 230, TO PROVIDE FOR THE ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATION OF GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

QTown

Village

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 06 of the year 2024

A local law to AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF
(Insert Title)

CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 230, TO PROVIDE FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATION OF GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM

Be It enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

GCity

QTown

Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 6-2024
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE ZONING LAW OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 230, TO PROVIDE FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATION OF GEOTHERMAL ENERGY
SYSTEMS

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One: The Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Chapter 230, is hereby
amended to add a new Section 230-48.3 entitled "Geothermal Energy Systems" to read as follows:
§ 230-48.3 Geothermal energy systems.
A. Legislative intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to allow and encourage nonsolar renewable energy systems that harness geothermal energy within the Village
according to certain safeguards and conditions. The intent is to balance the desirability and
demand for geothermal energy systems with maintaining the aesthetics of the Village and
minimize the potential for any negative impact by these systems and to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the Village.
B. Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated.
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM
An energy system that uses heat or power from underground for heating, cooling, or
generating other types of energy.
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY EQUIPMENT
Any device, supply lines, return lines, control valves, wiring, meters, switches, modules,
inverters or other equipment associated with the installation or function of a geothermal
energy system.
C. General design standards for geothermal energy systems and equipment.
1. Any aboveground geothermal energy equipment shall not be located in any front
yard, and shall be subject to side and rear yard setback requirements for accessory
structures.
2. At the discretion of the Village Engineer, outdoor aboveground geothermal energy
equipment shall be screened from adjacent properties by landscaping, fencing, or
other methods to minimize the aesthetic impact of the geothermal energy equipment
on adjacent properties.
3. All underground components of geothermal energy systems, including borings,
loops, and other equipment shall be set back at least five feet from side and rear lot
lines.
4. All borings and loops shall be set back at least 10 feet from the foundation of any
structure, unless the foundation is a concrete slab, in which case all borings and
loops shall be set back at least 5 feet from the foundation of any structure.
5. Geothermal energy systems shall not encroach on any public or private utility or
right-of-way easement.
D. Procedure.
1. Site plan approval. Site plan approval is not required for any geothermal energy
system except where Planning Board review is specifically required by § 230-67.
2. An application with plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer as a
requirement for the issuance of a building permit for any geothermal energy system.
Such plan shall indicate all existing and proposed grading, excavating, filling,
paving, fencing, tree removal, wetlands, utilities, easements, erosion and sediment
control devices, and screening as it may relate to the proposed geothermal energy
system. The plan shall also indicate the location of all property lines and shall
comply with the requirements and standards of this section.

Section Two: Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three:
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 6 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on March 27, 2024, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

3.

20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

(Final adoption by referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

20

. and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

.

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

. Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 , became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

(Seal)

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with A 5-0 vote:
Resolution #56-2024
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the Village
Code to provide for the administration and regulation of geothermal energy systems, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on January 24, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes, and
WHEREAS on March 13, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and review described
in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Full EAF "Determination of Significance" attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2024,
which was opened and closed on March 13, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the Waterfront
Advisory Committee with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the LWRP policy
standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on March 13, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP
policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which
it found applicable:
POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and
policies.
POLICY 6: Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the siting of development activities at
suitable locations.
POLICY 6A: To expedite permit procedures, the Village shall coordinate all relevant local laws
into a development package for applicants and/or make all local laws available to applicants
proposing development activities.
POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity shall be timed
so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by
guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any
development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were reviewed and
found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its
determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code to provide for the administration and regulation of geothermal energy systems, complies with
the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts the EAF Parts 2
and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with
this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory
No. 1 of 2024, to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to provide for the administration and
regulation of geothermal energy systems, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 6 of 2024.
Dated: March 27, 2024

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of
New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office and
has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 27th of
March 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said Village
this
Village Clerk
(Seal)
