---
title: "Local Law 6-2019: TO PERMIT DAY CARE USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT IN THE C 2 ZONING DISTRICT"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2019-05-24
---

Local Law 6-2019
Filed: 2019-05-24
TO PERMIT DAY CARE USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT IN THE C 2 ZONING DISTRICT

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

•City

•Town

[X] Village

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 06 of the year 2019

A local law to permit day-care uses by special permit in the C-2 zoning district.
(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

•City

•Town

[X] Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 6-2019
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND SECTION 230-17 OF THE ZONING CHAPTER OF THE
CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, BY ADDING A NEW
SECTION PERMITTING DAY-CARE USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
IN THE C-2 ZONING DISTRICT
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 230-17 is hereby amended to add a new Section 230-17.B(9) as follows:
§ 230-17.B(9). Day-care centers, subject to the following conditions and limitations:
(a)

There shall be no more than one day-care center per lot.

(b)

The limits of any outdoor play area or recreation area shall not extend closer than
20 feet to any residential property line.

(c)

The day-care center shall comply with all applicable conditions and limitations of
the New York State Department of Social Services relating to the operation and
licensing of day-care centers and shall have all required licenses and certificates.

Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which Is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 2019
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on May 20, 2019, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of , was duly passed by the
on
20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
20 , and was deemed duly adopted
in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of of
was duly passed by the
on
20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
20 .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of of
was duly passed by the
on
20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20
of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20
of
the County of , State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the
following vote: 5-0.
Resolution #75 of 2019

WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Section 230-61 of the Zoning Chapter of the Village
Code to change the deadline for the mailing of public notices for special permit applications from
15 days to 10 days before the public hearing; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2019 has been drafted to amend Section 230-61;
and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on May 20, 2019,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2019 amending Section 230-61 of the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law 7 of 2019.
Dated: May 20, 2019

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester,
State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file
in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said
Village held on May 20, 2019.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
said Village this 22 day of May 2019.

(Seal)
