```yaml
title: "Local Law 6-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 116 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-O"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-04-23
```

Local Law 6-2025
Filed: 2025-04-23
TO AMEND CHAPTER 116 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE THE LIST OF ADDITIONAL TYPE II ACTIONS

New York State
Department of State
DIVISION OF CORPORATIONS, STATE RECORDS AND
UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE
One Commerce Plaza
99 Washington Ave.
Albany, NY 12231-0001
dos.ny.gov

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
of the year 2025
Local Law Title:
AMEND CHAPTER ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF THE
CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE THE LIST OF
ADDITIONAL TYPE II ACTIONS.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees
ofthe

County • City • Town • Village
(Select one)

of Croton-on-Hudson
(Name of Local Government)

(Name of Legislative Body)

as follows on the attached pages:

For Office Use Only
STATE RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Department of State Local Law Index Number:
6
of the year 2025

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)

page 1 of 3

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number 6 of 2025
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on April 09, 2025, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
and was
(approved)(not approved)(re passed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
20
in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
and was
(approved) (not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
20
.
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20
In accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
of 20
ofthe (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
and was
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
20
. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
requesting such referendum was filed as of
20
in accordance with the
applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 2 of 3

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number
of 20
ofthe City of
having submitted to referendum pursuant to
the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number
of 20
ofthe County of
State of New York, having been submitted to
the electors at the General Election of November
20
pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of
section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph 1 above.

Pauline DiSanto
Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or
officer designated by local legislative body

April 14, 2025
(Date)

page 3 of 3

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW 06 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 116, ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW, OF THE
CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE THE LIST OF
ADDITIONAL TYPE II ACTIONS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 116-1, Additional Type II actions, of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
Consistent with the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act (Article 8 of the
Environmental Conservation Law), and the regulations promulgated pursuant to that statute (6
NYCRR Part 617, hereinafter "Part 617"), the Village of Croton-on-Hudson determines the
actions listed in Attachment 1 of this chapter to be additional Type II actions. This list may be
updated from time to time via resolution by the Village Board of Trustees.
Section Two. Attachment 1, Additional Type II Actions Adopted by Village Agencies, of Chapter
116, Environmental Review, is hereby amended as follows:
Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Additional Type II Actions Adopted by Village Agencies
Lists of Type II actions supplementary to the list of Type II actions contained in 6 NYCRR 617.5(c)
have been adopted by the Village Board, as set forth below:
VILLAGE:
1. Wetland permit issued by the Village Engineer under Chapter 227 of the Village Code.
2. Steep slope permit issued by the Village Engineer under Chapter 195 of the Village
Code.
3. Fill or excavation permit issued by the Village Engineer under Chapter 120 of the
Village Code.
4. Minor land disturbance activity or stormwater pollution prevention plan approval
issued by the Stormwater Management Officer under Chapter 196 of the Village Code.
5. Tree removal permit issued by the Village Engineer under Chapter 208 of the Village
Code.
6. Permit for improvement in the street line or street use approval issued by the Village
Engineer under Chapter 197 of the Village Code.
7. Sign permit issued under Chapter 230 of the Village Code.
8. Blasting permit issued by the Village Engineer under Chapter 81 of the Village Code.
9. Public display of fireworks permit issued by the Police Chief under Chapter 127 of the
Village Code
10. Special permit (including the allowable waiving of any requirements) granted by the
Village Board for the construction, expansion or use of a primary or
accessory/appurtenant, structure or facility involving less than 4,000 square feet of gross
floor area and less than 10,000 square feet of land disturbance and not involving a change
in zoning or a use variance and consistent with local land use controls, but not radio

communication or microwave transmission facilities nor other structures related to radio,
television, telephone or data transmission/reception.
11. Granting an extension of the expiration date for a special permit.
12. Minor improvements by the Village designed or intended to correct localized water,
sewer, or drainage problems alone or in conjunction with street resurfacing projects.
13. Seasonal salting and/or sanding of roads, sidewalks, and parking lots.
14. The approval of a stormwater pollution prevention plan under Chapter 196 of the Village
Code in connection with any Type II action.
15. Adoption of local laws, resolutions and decisions, that have no significant adverse impact
on the environment and that are not Type I actions as defined under 6 NYCRR 617.4.
PLANNING BOARD:
1. Sign permit issued under Chapter 230 of the Village Code.
2. Granting of site plan or minor site plan approval (including the allowable waiving of any
requirements) for the construction or expansion of a primary or accessory/appurtenant,
structure or facility involving less than 4,000 square feet of gross floor area and less than
10,000 square feet of land disturbance and not involving a change in zoning or a use
variance and consistent with local land use controls, but not radio communication or
microwave transmission facilities nor other structures related to radio, television,
telephone or data transmission/reception.
3. Granting an extension of the expiration date for a site plan or minor site plan.
4. The granting of minor site plan approval (including the allowable waiving of any
requirements), not requiring a wetland or steep slope permit, for the construction or
expansion of a single-family, or a two-family residence on an existing lot including
provision of necessary utility connections and the installation, maintenance and/or
upgrade of a drinking water well and a septic system.
5. The approval of a stormwater pollution prevention plan under Chapter 196 of the Village
Code in connection with any Type II action.
6. The approval of a tree removal permit under Chapter 208 of the Village Code in
connection with any Type II action.
7. The approval of an excavation and filling permit under Chapter 120 of the Village Code
in connection with any Type II action.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
1. A decision by the Zoning Board of Appeals on the request for an extension of the
expiration date for an area variance or special permit.
2. A decision by the Zoning Board of Appeals on an interpretation of the Zoning Code or an
appeal of an administrative decision, except an appeal for a variance which is not
otherwise made a Type II action hereunder or by state law/regulation. Accordingly,
Zoning Board variances which are not made Type II actions by another paragraph hereof,
or by state law or regulation, are not intended to be made Type II actions by this paragraph.
3. The approval of a stormwater pollution prevention plan under Chapter 196 of the Village
Code in connection with any Type II action.

Section Three. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
Section Four. Effective Date.
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State Secretary
of State in accordance with Section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #71-2025
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory
No. 3 of 2025 to amend Chapter 116, Environmental Review, of the Village Code to
update the list of additional Type II actions; and
WHEREAS, on February 26, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes; and
WHEREAS, on March 26, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the
process and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Short EAF
"Determination of Significance" attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 3 of 2025, which was opened and closed on March 26, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village's Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions; and
WHEREAS, on March 26, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with
those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 6: Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above,
were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local
law to update the list of additional Type II actions, complies with the policy
standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2025 to amend Chapter 116, Environmental
Review, of the Village Code to update the list of additional Type II actions, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 6 of 2025.

Dated: April 9, 2025

State Of New York )
) ss:
County of Westchester )
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting
ofthe Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 9th of April 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said Village this 14th day of April 2025.
