```yaml
---
title: "Local Law 6-2015: ESTABLISHING A SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FOR THE VILLAGE AND OTHER AMENDMENTS"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2015-08-17
---

Local Law 6-2015
Filed: 2015-08-17
ESTABLISHING A SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FOR THE VILLAGE AND OTHER AMENDMENTS

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

DVillage

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 6 of the year 2015

A local law establishing a sidewalk improvement program for the Village and other amendments.

(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

DCounty DCity
(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

DTown

DVillage

as follows:

SEE ATTACHED

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Local Law Filing

41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 06 of the year 2015

A local law establishing a sidewalk improvement program for the Village and other
amendments.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1. Article VIII - Sidewalk Improvement Program is hereby established as follows:
§197-35 Purpose.
The Board of Trustees has made a determination that many sidewalks located within the Village are in
significant need of repair due to certain village trees planted in the Village right of way. The Board of
Trustees also recognizes that the repair of sidewalks can be costly and that it imposes a difficult economic
hardship on the homeowner to keep the sidewalks in good repair. The Board of Trustees has determined
that it is in the best interests of the Village to have properly maintained sidewalks and, therefore, has
decided to assist residents in maintaining the sidewalks to the extent outlined within this Local Law.
§197-36 Administration.
Any owner of real property within the Village whose real property abuts on any public street may be
eligible for the following sidewalk replacement program hereby established:
If the sidewalk is in need of repair or replacement, the owner of said property may make application to the
Village requesting that the sidewalk be repaired or replaced. A fee for the filing of said application may
be established by the Village Board of Trustees. Applications will be processed and acted upon at the sole
discretion of the Village.
The Commissioner of Public Works, or his designee, will visit the site to determine if a Village street tree
has contributed to the cause of the damaged sidewalk. Upon his determination, the Village will authorize
and pay for the removal of the street tree.
The Village will pay fifty (50%) of the actual contract cost for the removal and replacement of sidewalks
to property owners who apply during the period of October 1 2015 to May 31, 2020 for the sidewalk
replacement program, including materials and labor for the repairs and reconstruction. The prevailing rate
established by the Village will be used in determining the total cost of the improvements.
The Village Engineer shall determine the nature and extent of sidewalk repairs qualifying for
reimbursement under this program. After review of the application by the Village Engineer and the

determination of repairs qualifying for reimbursement, the Village Engineer will notify the applicant in
writing of the contribution to be made by the property owner. After receipt of the property owner's share
of the cost of the work, all repairs and reconstruction will be scheduled by the Village Engineer and
performed by the contractor or contractors selected by the Village in accordance with specifications
provided by the Village Engineer. All work shall be subject to inspection by the Village Engineer or his
designee during construction, and must be approved by the Village Engineer before the Village authorizes
payment to the contractor or contractors.
The Village encourages pooling of neighborhoods interested in repairing or replacing their sidewalks. The
deadline date for pooling is March 31 of each year.
The Village will provide funding only to the extent that Village funds for the sidewalk improvement
program are available, and such availability will be at the sole discretion of the Board of Trustees. Failure
of the Board of Trustees to budget funds for repair of sidewalks shall in no way excuse any property
owner from properly maintaining, repairing, constructing or replacing sidewalks in accordance with
Article IV of Chapter 197 of the Croton-on-Hudson Village Code.
After the five (5) year period of the sidewalk improvement program has elapsed all property owners who
have not applied for participation in the program whose real property abuts on any public street shall be
responsible for undertaking all repairs or improvements at their own expense without any Village subsidy
in accordance with the provisions of Section 197-24 of the Village Code and further the Village will carry
out its responsibilities in accordance with Sections 197-25, 197-26 and 197-27 of the Village Code.
§197-37 Liability- In the event that personal injury or property damage shall result from the failure of any
owner or occupant to comply with the provisions of Section 197-15 and Section 197-24 of the Village
Code requiring maintenance, repair, and snow and ice removal, the owner and the occupant shall be liable
to all persons injured, or whose property is damaged directly, or indirectly, and shall be liable to the
Village to the extent that said Village is required by law or by any Court to respond in damages to any
injured party.
Section 2. § 197-15-D is hereby amended to replace the word Superintendent with the word
Commissioner.

Section 3. This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 6 of 2015 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on August 10, 2015, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
20
, and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
(Name of Legislative Body)

of 20
on

was duly passed by the
and was (approved)(not approved)

(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

of

on

20

.

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of 20

was duly passed by the

(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

, and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20.

of

. Such local
.
.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body; the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 , became operative.
6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1 above.

City, Town or Village
Clerk or
Clerk or officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

On motion of TRUSTEE Levitt, seconded by TRUSTEE Slippen, the
following resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees
of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee
Pugh not in attendance.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to establish a sidewalk improvement
program for the Village and other amendments to section 197 of the
Village Code; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2015 has been drafted to
reflect such language;
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on August 10, 2015,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of
Trustees hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2015 to
establish a sidewalk improvement program for the Village and other
amendments to section 197 of the Village Code, which upon adoption
will become Local Law No. 6 of 2015.

Date: August 10, 2015
State of New York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy
of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of
the Board of Trustees of said Village held on August 10, 2015.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of
the said Village, this 12th day of August, 2015.
