---
title: "Local Law 7-2015: TO REPEAL ARTICLE II SECTIONS 172-12 THROUGH 172-17 OF THE VILLAGE CODE PERTAINI"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2015-09-30
---

Local Law 7-2015
Filed: 2015-09-30
TO REPEAL ARTICLE II SECTIONS 172-12 THROUGH 172-17 OF THE VILLAGE CODE PERTAINING TO NON-COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION IN ITS ENTIRETY

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 7 of the year 2015

A local law to repeal Article II Sections 172-12 through 172-17 of the Village code pertaining to non-commercial solicitation in its entirety.

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section One. Article II of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson containing Sections 172-12 through 172-17 inclusive of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby repealed in its entirety.

Section Two. This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.

Page 2 of 4

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 7 of 2015 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Village Board of Trustees on September 21, 2015, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 20, and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the (Name of Legislative Body) on 20, and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 20. Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the (Name of Legislative Body) on 20, and was (approved)(not approved) (repassed after disapproval) by the (Elective Chief Executive Officer*) on 20. Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 20, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 20, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of November 20, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Page 4 of 4

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Local Law Filing
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 7 of the year 2015

A local law to repeal Article II Sections 172-12 through 172-17 of the Village code pertaining to non-commercial solicitation in its entirety.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section One. Article II of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson containing Sections 172-12 through 172-17 inclusive of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby repealed in its entirety.

Section Two. This Local Law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.
