---
title: "Local Law 7-2002: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2002-11-06
---

Local Law 7-2002
Filed: 2002-11-06

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STA

Local Law Filing
Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law Introductory No. 7 of the year 2002

A local law amending the Steep Slopes Law Chapter 195

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

Section 1.
The first sentence of § 195-9 (A) is hereby amended to read as follows:
A. The Village Board of Trustees may grant a special hardship permit to any person to except
from some or all of the provisions of § 195-5 of this chapter a separate lot which otherwise
meets the minimum requirements for the construction of a one-family dwelling unit if the lot
was owned by the applicant on the effective date of this chapter and was owned by the
applicant at all times thereafter or if the lot was owned individually and separately on the
effective date of this chapter and at all times thereafter, and in addition, is part of a
subdivision approved by the Planning Board after January 1, 1981.

Section 2. This Local Law shall be effective upon filing in the office of the Secretary of State.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
7 of 2002 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
was duly passed by the Board of Trustees
on 10/21, 2002, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on 20— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted on 20— ,
in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on 20— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
disapproval) by the
on 20—. Such local law was submitted
to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on 20— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
disapproval) by the
on 20 - - - . Such local law was subject to
permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 - - , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. —--- of 20
of the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20—,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November
20— , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Date:

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER

I , the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title
Village
Date
Croton on Hudson
