---
title: "Local Law 7-2025: TO AMEND CHAPTER 125, FIRE PREVENTION AND CHAPTER 197 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, OF "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2025-05-23
---

Local Law 7-2025
Filed: 2025-05-23
TO AMEND CHAPTER 125, FIRE PREVENTION AND CHAPTER 197 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS

Local Law Filing
Pursuant to Municipal Home Rule Law §27
Local Law Number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government listed below:
7 of the year 2025
Local Law Title: TO AMEND CHAPTER 125, FIRE PREVENTION AND CHAPTER 197, STREETS AND
SIDEWALKS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO UPDATE
VARIOUS PROVISIONS.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

• County
(Select one)

• City

• Town

• Village

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows on the attached pages:

(Name of Local Government)

For Office Use Only

FILED
STATE RECORDS
MAY 2 3 2025
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Department of State Local Law Index Number: 1 of the year 20

(The local law number assigned by the Department of State for indexing purposes may be different from the
local law number ascribed by the legislative body of the local government.)

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 7 OF 2025
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 125, FIRE PREVENTION, AND CHAPTER 197,
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ONHUDSON TO UPDATE VARIOUS PROVISIONS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 125-5(A) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows.
The Inspector is hereby authorized and empowered at any and all reasonable times, and as often as
necessary, to enter upon and inspect all buildings and premises with the exception of one- and twofamily dwellings, and townhouses, and all the interior streets, roadways and driveways thereof, to
determine whether there exist violations of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and
Building Code or any conditions therein conducive to danger from fire, whether there are
obstructions to property, fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors and windows which might
impede the operations of the Fire Department or block the ingress and egress to said Department in
the event of fire and whether there are any conditions existing on said premises creating danger to
life or property in the event of fire. The fee for such inspection(s) shall be in an amount set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees.
Section Two. Section 125-5(B) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows.
The Village shall promptly present to the owner or occupant of each property a bill for the
inspection(s) as provided herein. The bill will set forth the process for the owner or occupant to
appeal the charges to the Village Manager. If any such bill is not paid within 30 days, the costs set
forth thereon shall be assessed against the property, added to the tax bill for the property, and
become a lien thereon, collectible in the same manner as delinquent Village taxes and assessments.
Any appeal must be filed with the Village Manager within 10 days of the bill and must set forth the
reason why the owner or occupant believes the cost should not be payable by the owner or
occupant under the provisions of this section. If requested, the owner or occupant will be given the
opportunity to discuss their position with the Village Manager. The decision of the Village
Manager shall be made within 10 days after receipt of the appeal or any such discussion and shall
be final.
Section Three. Section 125-5(C) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby added
as follows.
The Chief, in coordination with the Village Manager, shall designate such areas at, on or near any
interior street, roadway or driveway which, if obstructed by the parking or placing of any
automobile, truck, motor vehicle or any physical object or material, will cause interference with

the ingress and egress of fire-fighting equipment or which, if obstructed in any way, will create a
condition which is dangerous to life or property in the event of fire. Such areas shall thereupon be
marked by the property owner with the required uniform signs and/or such other markings deemed
necessary and proper by the Chief, indicating that said area is restricted a fire zone. The parking or
placing of any automobile, truck, motor vehicle or physical object or material within any such
restricted fire zone is hereby expressly prohibited. If the signs and/or markings are not installed
within the time frame specified by the Chief, said signs and markings shall be installed at the
expense of the owner of the property, who shall promptly pay to the Village Treasurer the actual
cost thereof as certified in writing to said Village Treasurer by the Chief. Notwithstanding and not
in limitation of any other provision hereof, no automobile, truck or other motor vehicle and no
physical object or material of any nature whatever shall be parked, placed or permitted to remain
for any length of time whatever within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or standpipe located at, on or
near any interior street, roadway or driveway within any premises described in this section.
Section Four. Section 197-7(A) of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby
amended to read as follows:
No person shall in any way obstruct, encumber, occupy or consent to or aid or abet the obstruction,
encumbrance or occupation of any part of any street, lane or alley, sidewalk or public grounds,
except so far as the same shall be necessary for the erection or repair of a building, placing of a
dumpster or storage unit, or the grading or improvement of a lot, and only so long as it may be
necessary therefor and then only with the permission of the Village Engineer, on such terms as
may be laid down by him. The fee for use of any street, lane or alley, sidewalk or public grounds
shall be in an amount set by resolution of the Board of Trustees. When, with such permission, any
part of any street, lane or alley, sidewalk or public ground shall be obstructed, occupied or
encumbered, a passageway shall at all times be kept open for travelers and pedestrians, and such
obstructions or encumbrances shall be carefully guarded and lighted at all times during the night in
a manner satisfactory to the Village Engineer. No person shall otherwise store or keep property in
any street, lane or alley or upon any sidewalk or public ground.
Section Five. Section 197-26 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
to read as follows:
If any such person shall fail to perform and complete such cleaning or repair within the time
specified in said notice, the Village may cause such cleaning or repair to be performed. The
Village shall promptly present to the owner or occupant of each property a bill for the cleaning or
repair as provided herein. The bill will set forth the process for the owner or occupant to appeal the
charges to the Village Manager. If any such bill is not paid within 30 days, the costs set forth
thereon shall be assessed against the property, added to the tax bill for the property, and become a
lien thereon, collectible in the same manner as delinquent Village taxes and assessments. Any
appeal must be filed with the Village Manager within 10 days of the bill and must set forth the
reason why the owner or occupant believes the cost should not be payable by the owner or
occupant under the provisions of this section. If requested, the owner or occupant will be given the
opportunity to discuss their position with the Village Manager. The decision of the Village
Manager shall be made within 10 days after receipt of the appeal or any such discussion and shall
be final.

Section Six. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Seven. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

Local Law Filing
(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto ascribed as local law number 7 of 2025
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on May 14, 2025, in accordance
(Name of Legislative Body)
with the applicable provisions of law.
2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of of the
was duly passed by the on 20 and was
(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on 20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of of the
was duly passed by the on 20 and was
(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
20 .
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the
affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20
(County)(City)(Town)(Village) of of the
was duly passed by the on 20 and was
(Name of Legislative Body)
(approved)(not approved)(repassed after disapproval) by the
on
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
20 . Such local law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition
requesting such referendum was filed as of 20 in accordance with the
applicable provisions of law.
* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there be
none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested
with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Local Law Filing
5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of
the City of having submitted to referendum pursuant to
the provisions of Section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a
majority of the qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
20 became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed thereto, ascribed as local law number of 20 of
the County of of
State of New York, having been submitted to
the electors at the General Election of November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of
section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified
electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county
considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
the paragraph 1 above.

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #94-2025
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2025 has been drafted to make various updates to Chapter
125, Fire Prevention, and Chapter 197, Streets and Sidewalks, of the Village Code; and
WHEREAS, the proposed local law includes revisions to the fire inspection process, billing for
sidewalk repairs and the placing of dumpsters/storage units in the right-of-way; and
WHEREAS, the proposed local law is considered a Type II action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees opened and closed a public hearing on Local Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2025 on May 14, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2025, amending Chapter 125, Fire Prevention, and Chapter 197, Streets and
Sidewalks, of the Village Code, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 7 of 2025.

Dated: May 14, 2025

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State of
New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my office
and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the
14th of May 2025.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 15th day
