---
title: "Local Law 7-2020: THE SEWERS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON THE HUDSON CHAPTER 19"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2020-06-22
---

Local Law 7-2020
Filed: 2020-06-22
THE SEWERS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON THE HUDSON CHAPTER 191, BY AMENDING THE SUBSECTION ON BILLING AND PAYMENTS

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 7 of the year 2020

A local law THE SEWERS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
(Insert Title)

CHAPTER 191, BY AMENDING THE SUBSECTION ON BILLING AND PAYMENTS

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees
of the
of Croton-on-Hudson
as follows;

see attached.

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 7 OF 2020
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND THE SEWERS CHAPTER OF THE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON, CHAPTER 191, BY AMENDING THE
SUBSECTION ON BILLING AND PAYMENTS
Section One. Section 191-31 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby amended
as follows:
§ 191-31 Billing and payments.
A. Sanitary sewer rent charges may be obtained at the Village's administrative offices. The
Village Treasurer may send bills via U.S. Mail or email for sewer rents as an
accommodation to the premises owner, but the failure to send any such statement via U.S.
Mail or email, or the failure of the addressee to receive the same, shall not in any manner
affect the validity of the sewer rent charges or the interest imposed for late payment. If the
premises owner does not receive a bill, it is his or her responsibility to contact the Village
Treasurer to obtain one.
B. Sanitary sewer rent bills shall cover the same billing period as covered by the Village water
bill.
C. All bills for sanitary sewer rents are due and payable to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 7 of 2020
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on June 1, 2020, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of of
was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on , 20
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory) (permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of of
was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on , 20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on , 20, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of , State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November, 20 , pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Clerk of the county legislative body, City, Town or Village Clerk or,
officer designated by local legislative body

Date:

On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye,
Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh
Aye.
Resolution #84-2020
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 191 of the Village Code,
Sewers, to reflect the sending of sewer bills via email; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was held and closed on June 1, 2020,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2020 amending Chapter 191, Sewers, of the
Village Code, which upon adoption becomes Local Law 7 of 2020.

Dated: June 1, 2020
State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)

I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of Westchester, State
of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a copy of an original on file in my
office and has been duly adopted at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held
on June 1, 2020.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the said
Village this 04th day of January 2020.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
