---
title: "Local Law 7-1999: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-08-30
---

Local Law 7-1999
Filed: 1999-08-30

Local Law Filing

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STA,
41 STATE STREET, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

Croton on Hudson

Local Law No. 1. of the year 1999

A local law amending Local Law # 3-1999, as authorized
(Insert Title)
by Chapter 70, Laws of 1999, for the eligible employees
of the Village of Croton on Hudson

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)
of the
Town
Village
of Croton on Hudson as follows:

Sec. 1. The Village of Croton on Hudson hereby elects to provide
all of its eligible employees with a retirement incentive
program authorized by Chapter 70, Laws of 1999.
Sec. 2. The commencement date of the retirement incentive program
shall be October 4, 1999.
Sec. 3. The open period during which eligible employees may retire
and receive the additional retirement benefit, shall be 88
days in length.
Sec. 4. The actuarial present value of the additional retirement
benefits payable pursuant to the provisions of this local
law shall be paid as one lump sum, or in five annual Installments
The amount of the annual payment shall be determined by the
Actuary of the New York State and Local Employees' Retirement
System, and it shall be paid by the Village of Croton on Hudson
for each employee who receives the retirement benefits payable
under this local law.
Sec. 5. This act shall take effect August 16, 1999.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)
DOS-239 (Rev. 2/98)

(1)

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)

1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 7 of 1999 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton on Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on August 16, 1999, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.
(Name of Legislative Body)

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)
disapproval) by the — , and was deemed duly adopted on 19—,
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)
disapproval) by the on 19—. Such local law was submitted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on 19— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the on 19— , and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)
disapproval) by the on 19—. Such local law was subject to
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of 19.— , in
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or Includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a countywide basis or. If there be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village) or
the supervisor of a town where such officer Is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 19
of the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on 19—,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 19
of the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors
at the General Election of November 19—, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit
voting at said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Date: 8/30/99

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK

COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER

I, the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Signature

Village Attorney
Title

Village
Date: 8/30/99 (3)
Croton on Hudson
