---
title: "Local Law 7-1998: "
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 1999-01-11
---

Local Law 7-1998
Filed: 1999-01-11

NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE
162 WASHINGTON AVENUE, ALBANY, NY 12231

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
If text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

Village
Local Law No
A local law

of the year 1998.

relating to helicopters and other aircraft.
(Insert Title)

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees

of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:

§ 1. Operation restricted.

Except as provided in § 2, helicopters or other aircraft shall not take off or land or discharge or take on passengers or cargo within the boundaries of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

§ 2. Emergency landings.

Emergency landings are exempt from this local law. However, in the event of an emergency landing, no movement of the helicopter or other aircraft may be made or permitted until such time as an administrative authority designated by the Chief of Police

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

has approved the movement of the helicopter or other aircraft, except for helicopters landing for medical and/or public safety emergencies.

§ 3. Penalties for offenses.

Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties provided by §§ 1-12 of Chapter 1 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Code.

§ 4. Effective date.

This local law shall be effective immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State of the State of New York.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 7 of 1998 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the Board of Trustees on 12/21, 1998, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval
by the Elective Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
-of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on
19---, and was (approved)(not approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Body)

disapproval) by the

-

and was deemed duly adopted on

19----,

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
--of 19 of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of -—
was duly passed by the
-on
—- 19—-, and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
(Name of Legislative Bodyj

disapproval) by the

-

on

-

19

Such local law was submitted

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*)

to the people by reason of a (mandalory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative vote of a majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at the (gcneral)(special)(annual) election held on 19--- , in
accordance wilh the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting
referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
- of 19
of the (Counly)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by tfae
~
~
on
19— , and was (approved)(nol approved)(repassed after
/Name ofLegislative Bodyi

disapproval) by the

-

-

on

-

- 19—. Such local law was subjeci to

(Elective ChiefExecutive Officer*/

permissive referendum and no valid peiition requesting sucfareferendumwas filed as of
accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

-

19-- , in

* Elective Chief Executive Offlcer means or includes the chief executive offlcer of a county elected on a countywide basis or, if there be none, the chairperson ofthe county legislative body, the mayor ofa city or village, or
the supervisor of a town where such officer is vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.
(2)

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of 19
of the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of
section (36)(37) of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of such city voting thereon at the (special)(general) election held on
-19----,
became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
—
of 19
oflhe Counly of
—
-Statc o f N e w York, having been submitted to the eleclore
at the General Election of November
—
19---, pursuant lo subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the
Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmalive vote of a majority of the qualitied electore oflhe cities of said county as a unit and a majorily of the qualified electore of the towns of said counly considered as a unit
voting al said general election, became operative.
(If any other authorized form offlnal adoption has been foUowed, please provide an appropriate certiflcation.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same
is a correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in paragraph 1, above.

Date:

Village Clerk

(Certification to be executed by County Attorney, Corporation Counsel, Town Attorney, Village Attorney or
other authorized attorney of locality.)
STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF
WESTCHESTER

I , the undersigned, hereby certify that the foregoing local law contains the correct text and that all proper proceedings
have been had or taken for the enactment of the local law annexed hereto.

Village Attorney
Title
City
of
Village
Date:

Croton on Hudson
(3)
