---
title: "Local Law 8-2021: TO DELETE CHAPTER 202 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TATTOOS"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2021-08-12
---

Local Law 8-2021
Filed: 2021-08-12
TO DELETE CHAPTER 202 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON TATTOOS

N e w Y o r k State D e p a r t m e n t of State
Division of C o r p o r a t i o n s , State R e c o r d s a n d Uniform C o m m e r c i a l Code
O n e C o m m e r c e Plaza, 99 W a s h i n g t o n A v e n u e
Albany, NY 1 2 2 3 1 - 0 0 0 1
wv/w. d 0 s. state. n y. us/co rps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not Include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

nCity

nTown

FILED
STATE RECORDS

[xjVillage

(Select one:)

AUG 1 2 2021

of Croton-on-Hudson

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ofthe year 2021

Local Law IMo.

08

A local law

DELETE CHAPTER 202 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON(Insert Title)

'

"

~

~ '

'

'

~ ~

HUDSON, TATTOOS

Be it enacted by the Village Board of Trustees

ofthe

(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

GCity

GTown

(xjVillage

(Select one.)

Of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 8 OF 2021
A LOCAL LAW TO DELETE CHAPTER 202 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON, TATTOOS
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 202 of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is hereby deleted in its
entirety.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification In the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. ^'^'^^
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson
Village Board of Trustees
on ^^9^^^ 2
20£!

of 2o£]
of
^as duly passed by the
, in accordance with the applicable

(Name of Legislative Body)

provisions of law.

2.

(Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
1 hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.
of ?0
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
. .
^
.
on —
70
, and was (approvedXnot approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

on

,

20|

I

I, in accordance w ith the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the {County)(City){Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on

.

20

. 3nd was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

on
(Elective Chief Executive

20

Officer')

Such local lav^ was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
„
20

4.

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of lav/.

(Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)

I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No.

of 20

the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of

of

was duly passed by the
on.^

_20

and was (approved)(not approved)

(Name of Legislative Body)

(repassed after disapproval) by the

on

20

, Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer')

law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20

, in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-Vi'ide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested v/ith the power to approve or veto local \aws or ordinances.

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the City of
having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on.
20
, became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No
of 20
of
the County of
State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November
.
20
, pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority ofthe qualified electors ofthe cities of said county as a unit and a majority ofthe
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and ofthe whole of such original local law, and was finally^^opted-in the manner indicated in
paragraph.
above.
\
C t ^ k ofthe county legjsative bod/TCity, Town or Village Clerk or
-Officer desigfiated.byjjacal legislative body " V f v c L . c . i \ - ^
"S.i.tt^T"'^

(Seal)

-'

DOS-0239-f-l (Rev. 06/12)

'-^

Date:

JT^OZ-I

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees ofthe Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #121-2021
WHEREAS the Village would like to delete Chapter 202 of the Village Code,
Tattoos, so as to allow tattooing within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2021 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
WHEREAS a public hearing was opened on July 19, 2021, and closed on August 2,
2021
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2021 to delete Chapter 202 of the Village
Code, Tattoos, to allow tattooing within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 8 of 2021.

Dated: August 2, 2021

State ofNew York

)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State ofNew York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on August 2"^ , 2021.
IN3VITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
•seai-6SlTe;_said Village this 09^'^ day of August 2021.


