---
title: "Local Law 8-2024: TO AMENDING CHAPTER 108, DOGS, AND CHAPTER 168, PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS, TO P"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2024-04-17
---

Local Law 8-2024
Filed: 2024-04-17
TO AMENDING CHAPTER 108, DOGS, AND CHAPTER 168, PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS, TO PERMIT LEASHED DOGS IN GOUVEIA PARK

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue

Albany, NY 12231 0001

www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not Include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.
•County

DCity

DTown

Village

(Select one:)

of Croton-on-Hudson

Local Law No. 08 of the year 2024

A local law AMENDING CHAPTER 108, DOGS, AND CHAPTER 168,
(Insert Title)

PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS, TO PERMIT LEASHED DOGS IN GOUVEIA PARK.

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees
(Name of Legislative Body)

•County

QCity

GTown

[X]Village

(Select one.)

of Croton-on-Hudson

as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 08-2024
A LOCAL LAW AMENDING CHAPTER 108, DOGS, AND CHAPTER 168,
PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS, TO PERMIT LEASHED DOGS IN GOUVEIA
PARK
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 108-6, Regulations and restrictions, of the Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson is hereby amended to add a new Subsection F. (3) to read as follows:
F. Be on any public park, playground, ballfield, or school property or on the property of another
person without the consent of such other person, whether or not restrained by a chain or leash;
provided, however, that the following exceptions apply:
(3) Gouveia Park: Dog owners may walk their leashed dogs, with a leash no more than six feet
in length, within Gouveia Park only during posted hours that the park is open.
Section Two. Section 168-8, Prohibited acts, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is
hereby amended to add a new Subsection D. (3) to read as follows:
D. Permit or allow any dog or other domestic animal within the aforesaid facilities; provided,
however, that the following exceptions apply:
(3) Gouveia Park: Dog owners may walk their leashed dogs, with a leash no more than six
feet in length, within Gouveia Park only during posted hours that the park is open.
Section Three. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Four. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 8 of 2024 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on April 10, 2024 in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on , 20 .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of
was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on , 20 . Such local
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
, 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

5. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20 of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on , 20 , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1 above.

Date: April 17, 2024

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #69-2024
WHEREAS in accordance with the recommendation put forth by the Recreation
Advisory Committee, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter
108, Dogs, and 168, Parks and Recreation Areas, of the Village Code to permit leashed
dogs in Gouveia Park, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2024, which was opened and closed on April 10, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2024, to amend Chapters 108 and 168
of the Village Code to permit leashed dogs in Gouveia Park, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 8 of 2024.
Dated: April 10, 2024

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on the 10th of April 2024.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said Village this 17th day of April, 2024.
