---
title: "Local Law 9-2022: TO AMEND CHAPTER 135 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING MODIFYI"
source: Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Law
date: 2022-07-14
---

Local Law 9-2022
Filed: 2022-07-14
TO AMEND CHAPTER 135 OF THE VILLAGE CODE, GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND LITTERING MODIFYING ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION OF FEES FOR EXCESS GARBAGE AND RUBBISH

New York State Department of State
Division of Corporations, State Records and Uniform Commercial Code
One Commerce Plaza, 99 Washington Avenue
Albany, NY 12231-0001
www.dos.state.ny.us/corps

Local Law Filing

(Use this form to file a local law with the Secretary of State.)
Text of law should be given as amended. Do not include matter being eliminated and do not use
italics or underlining to indicate new matter.

of Croton-on-Hudson
Local Law No. 09 of the year 2022
A local law to amend Chapter 135 of the Village Code, Garbage, Rubbish and Littering
(Insert Title)

modifying enforcement and collection of fees for excess garbage and rubbish

Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees

of Croton-on-Hudson
as follows:

see attached.

(If additional space Is needed, attach pages the same size as this sheet, and number each.)

Page 2 of 4

VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LOCAL LAW NO. 09-2022
A LOCAL LAW TO AMEND CHAPTER 135 OF THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
CROTON-ON-HUDSON MODIFYING ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION OF
FEES FOR EXCESS GARBAGE AND RUBBISH BY THE VILLAGE
Be it enacted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as follows:
Section One. Section 135-7, Excess garbage and rubbish, of the Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson is hereby amended to read as follows:
§ 135-7 Excess garbage and rubbish.
Garbage and rubbish beyond the limits set by the General Foreman in the garbage and rubbish
regulations may be collected by the Department of Public Works in accordance with a fee schedule
set by the Village Board of Trustees utilizing approved dumpsters. The Village shall forward a bill
for such fees on a monthly basis to the owner and if appropriate occupant of the property. The bill
will set forth the process for the owner and/or occupant to appeal the charges to the Village
Manager. If any such bill is not paid within 30 days, the costs set forth thereon shall be assessed
against the property and become a lien thereon. Any such bill which remains outstanding on April
15 of each year shall be added to the Village tax bill for the property, collectible in the same manner
as delinquent Village taxes and assessments. Any appeal must be filed with the Village Manager
within 10 days of the bill and must set forth the reason why the owner or occupant believes the
cost should not be payable by the owner or occupant under the provisions of this section. If
requested, the owner or occupant will be given the opportunity to discuss their position with the
Village Manager. The decision of the Village Manager shall be made within 10 days after receipt
of the appeal or any such discussion and shall be final.
Section Two. Severability
If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or other portion of this Local Law is, for any reason,
declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
hereof, which other portions shall continue in full force and effect.
Section Three. Effective Date
This local law shall take effect immediately upon filing in the office of the New York State
Secretary of State in accordance with section 27 of the Municipal Home Rule Law.

(Complete the certification in the paragraph that applies to the filing of this local law and
strike out that which is not applicable.)
1. (Final adoption by local legislative body only.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. 9 of 2022
of the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of Croton-on-Hudson was duly passed by the
Village Board of Trustees on July 5, 2022, in accordance with the applicable
(Name of Legislative Body)
provisions of law.

2. (Passage by local legislative body with approval, no disapproval or repassage after disapproval by the Elective
Chief Executive Officer*.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on , 20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
and was deemed duly adopted
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
on , 20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

3. (Final adoption by referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the .
(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)

20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20 .

Such local law was submitted to the people by reason of a (mandatory)(permissive) referendum, and received the affirmative
vote of a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon at the (general)(special)(annual) election held on
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

4. (Subject to permissive referendum and final adoption because no valid petition was filed requesting referendum.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No. of 20
of
the (County)(City)(Town)(Village) of was duly passed by the
on
(Name of Legislative Body)
(repassed after disapproval) by the
on

20 , and was (approved)(not approved)
on

20 . Such local

(Elective Chief Executive Officer*)
law was subject to permissive referendum and no valid petition requesting such referendum was filed as of
20 , in accordance with the applicable provisions of law.

* Elective Chief Executive Officer means or includes the chief executive officer of a county elected on a county-wide basis or, if there
be none, the chairperson of the county legislative body, the mayor of a city or village, or the supervisor of a town where such officer is
vested with the power to approve or veto local laws or ordinances.

Page 3 of 4

6. (City local law concerning Charter revision proposed by petition.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20_ of
the City of having been submitted to referendum pursuant to the provisions of section (36)(37) of
the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of such city voting
thereon at the (special)(general) election held on , 20_ , became operative.

6. (County local law concerning adoption of Charter.)
I hereby certify that the local law annexed hereto, designated as local law No of 20 of
the County of State of New York, having been submitted to the electors at the General Election of
November 20 pursuant to subdivisions 5 and 7 of section 33 of the Municipal Home Rule Law, and having
received the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified electors of the cities of said county as a unit and a majority of the
qualified electors of the towns of said county considered as a unit voting at said general election, became operative.

(If any other authorized form of final adoption has been followed, please provide an appropriate certification.)
I further certify that I have compared the preceding local law with the original on file in this office and that the same is a
correct transcript therefrom and of the whole of such original local law, and was finally adopted in the manner indicated in
paragraph 1, above.

Date: 7/14/22

Page 4 of 4

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #108-2022
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 135 of the Village Code,
Garbage, Rubbish and Littering, modifying enforcement and collection of fees for
excess garbage and rubbish, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2022 has been drafted to reflect such
language, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 10 was opened and
closed on July 5, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2022 to amend Chapter 135 of the Village
Code, Garbage, Rubbish and Littering, modifying enforcement and collection of fees
for excess garbage and rubbish, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 9 of
2022.
Dated: July 5, 2022

State of New York
)
ss:
County of Westchester
)
I, Pauline DiSanto, Clerk of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, in the County of
Westchester, State of New York, do hereby certify that the annexed resolution is a
copy of an original on file in my office and has been duly adopted at a regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees of said Village held on July 5th, 2022.
IN WITNESS WHHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of the said Village this 08th day of July 2022.

Village Clerk
(Seal)
