Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, January 6, 2020 in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

1. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS:
Trustee Simmons made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20192020 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved
with a 5-0 vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$144,925.78
$15,037.45
$2,722.51
$71,507.67
$1,790.00
-

2. PRESENTATION- 2020 Census
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simmons, the
Board of Trustees approved a presentation by Norma Drummond,
Commissioner of the Westchester County Planning Department on the
2020 Census. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
To view the full presentation, log onto the Village’s Web-Site at:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=766
On motion by Trustee Simmons and seconded by Trustee Habib, the Board
of Trustees approved the presentation by Police Chief Harper regarding
the hiring of a new officer. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Police Chief Harper advised that after a lengthy interview process he is
pleased to recommend Edwin Jandres. Mr. Jandres completed the Orange
County Police Academy in September of 2019, he was recently employed
as a Police Officer in the City of Newburgh, New York and already has
many of the certifications that will assist him in his duties as a Croton
Police Officer. Police Chief Harper advised that Mr. Jandres received a

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 2

Bachelor of Science Degree; Magna Cum Laude, in Criminal Justice and is
also bi-lingual in Spanish. Police Chief Harper stated that Mr. Jandres
impressed him with his interactive personality and his ability to
communicate; the Department also conducted an extensive background
investigation, and everyone interviewed gave him an excellent
recommendation. Police Chief Harper asked the Board for their support to
diversify and to continue to improve the Croton Police Department and
looks forward to Mr. Jandres being a part of our Department for many
years to come.
3. PUBLIC HEARINGA motion to open the Public Hearing to amend Chapter 197 of the Village
Code, “Streets and Sidewalks” to reduce the number of hours provided to
property owners to clear their sidewalks of snow and ice and revise the list
of sidewalks cleared by the Village was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion
was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #1 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 197 of the Village Code, Streets
& Sidewalks, to reduce the number of hours provided to property owners to clear
their sidewalks of snow and ice and to revise the list of sidewalks cleared by the
Village; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 11 of 2019 has been drafted for such
purposes; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on January 6, 2020,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 11 of 2019 amending Chapter 197 of the Village,
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 3

Streets & Sidewalks, for the above-stated purposes, which upon adoption becomes
Local Law 1 of 2020.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King explained that this amendment reduces the number of hours
that a property owner has to remove snow and ice from their sidewalks after a
snow/ice event from eighteen hours to twelve hours. Village Manager King advised
that the Village has also established a program where residents can sign up
(https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/node/467/news) to be advised of a
“storm ending time”. Village Manager King stated that she is hopeful that this will
streamline the process and make our sidewalks safer.
4. CORRESPONDENCEa.

Letter from Janet Calano, Attorney representing Mr. & Mrs. S. Grilli of
93 Lexington Drive, requesting a refund for Zoning Board of Appeals
fees.
Village Manager King explained that this issue seems to date back to
1936 and because the house has been sold several times and the files
were in the basement and not accessible, no one had discovered that
the home was not in compliance. Village Manager King advised that
the current homeowners have done everything to get their home back
into compliance and they are requesting that the total fee of $450.00
be waived. Village Manager King stated that the Village Engineer is
recommending keeping the “Certificate of Occupancy” fee of $125.00
but reducing the “Variance Fee” to $100.00.
Trustee Simmons said that in light of the events that have happened
over the years, he believes that we should not penalize the current
homeowner.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that she is surprised that this did
not come up when the current homeowners purchased the home,
normally when someone is purchasing a home there are title searches
that are done on the property which should have brought this issue up
at that time. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the fees are in
part to cover the expenses that the Village incurs in processing this
type of application and is why the Village Engineer is recommending
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 4

not eliminating the fee entirely but reducing it to cover a portion of the
Village’s expenses.
Village Manager King explained that in the previous instances a
“Variance” was not required, but rather it was a “Building Permit
Application” that was never closed, and this is why it would be
appropriate to waive the entire “Variance Fee”.
Mayor Pugh suggested that we waive the “Variance Fee” but keep in
place the fee for the “Certificate of Occupancy”.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that she is concerned that if we do
this, we could be putting the Village in a position of waiving “Variance
Application Fees” on other occasions which could have an impact on
the Village.
Mayor Pugh stated that he believes we can make the case since these
were recently discovered files.
On motion by Trustee Simmons and seconded by Trustee Habib the
Board of Trustees approved allowing a brief comment from the
homeowners. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Mr. & Mrs. Grilli of 93 Lexington Drive, Croton on Hudson, advised that
about a month ago they became aware that there was no “Certificate
of Occupancy” on file for their property, after getting some background
on the property, they found that in 1936 the homeowner did not get a
“Variance” or a “Permit” to build a two-car garage, in 1949 the
homeowner applied to make this a two story/one family home and the
permit was granted, when her parents purchased the house in 1955
nothing was brought up; they had a fire in the house in 1970 and
received a “Building Permit” to repair the damages and again nothing
was addressed, in 2009 when they purchased the home from their
siblings, again they were never told that there wasn’t a “Certificate of
Occupancy” on file. Ms. Grilli said that this goes back almost seventy
years, they had to engage an attorney as well as taking time off from
work and they are out a lot of money for something that happened
seventy years ago and believes that the Village had multiple
opportunities and years to address this.
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 5

Mayor Pugh asked for a motion to waive the “Variance Fee” but to
keep the “Certificate of Occupancy” fee.
On motion by Trustee Habib and seconded by Trustee Gallelli the
Board of Trustees approved waiving the “Variance Fee” and keeping
the fee for the “Certificate of Occupancy”. Motion was approved with
a 5-0 vote.
b. Letter from Village Manager King announcing that she will be retiring
July 6, 2020 and offering her assistance during the transition period
and the search for a new Manager.
Mayor Pugh stated that he is very sorry to see Village Manager King
go and appreciates everything she has done for the Village.
Trustee Gallelli stated that Ms. King has set an awfully high bar and
she has been an outstanding and exemplary Manager.
c. Letter from Diane Alden and Marie Mitchell Considine of the “Friends
of the Croton Gorge Unique Area” dated December 27, 2019
updating the Board on the status of their fundraising efforts for the
2020 “Stewardship Program” and requesting financial support from
the Village of Croton.
5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –
Lindsay Audin, Chair of the Croton Sustainability Committee, stated that
he supports the resolution supporting energy efficiency and renewables
that will reduce Croton’s footprint; this is very important and will result in
Croton getting points towards becoming a “Climate Smart Community”
which will put our community in line for grants from the “Department of
Environmental Conservation”. Mr. Audin thanked Village Manager King for
all her assistance in helping to make the “Sustainability Committee” work
so well.
Diane Alden representing the “Friends of the Croton Gorge Unique Area”
advised that the group has over one-hundred members; they are currently
working on fundraising and program planning with the “New York/New
Jersey Trail Conference” with respect to the “Croton Gorge Unique Area”;
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 6

up to date they have raised $8,659 from donations from the “Friends of
the Old Croton Aqueduct”; the Town of Cortlandt has authorized the
expenditure of $10,000, Teatown has donated $1,915 from the proceeds
of a recent art show, and the Town of Ossining is considering making a
contribution of $2,500 and they are asking for support from the Village of
Croton. To view the complete presentation, log onto the following web
site;
item
c.
under
Correspondence.
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=766
Mayor Pugh asked if there is any concern that private fundraising could
discourage the “Department of Environmental Conservation” from
assuming responsibility.
Ms. Alden stated that it is her understanding that if the Department of
Environmental Conservation” (“DEC”) sees evidence of broad community
support it will encourage them to put money into this project and we are
hoping that they will provide half of the funding that is needed. Ms. Alden
stated that if we end up raising more funds then needed, the money will
be put aside for next year and we are hopeful that the “DEC” will put in
$18,000.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the $36,000 is only for this year and next year
it will have to be done again unless the “DEC” decides to step up. Trustee
Gallelli stated that she has been on the “Croton River Task Force” for a
very long time and believes very strongly in this effort but we have to
recognize that the Village has already invested between seventy and
eighty thousand dollars a year on Croton River supervision/oversight, and
while some very good points were raised, we need to talk about this more
and not make a decision this evening.
Trustee Habib asked what comprises the $36,000 figure and asked if a
detailed budget is available.
Ms. Alden stated that the “New York/New Jersey Trail Conference” has
ascertained that this is the cost to put together this program; it is our
share of the fifteen Stewards and administrative costs associated with
providing the training but will certainly ask for a more detailed breakdown
of costs. Ms. Alden advised that the “Friends of the Croton Gorge Unique
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 7

Area” have guaranteed the funding and they have agreed to move
forward based on this guarantee of raising these funds.
Village Manager King stated that she understands that the first year would
cost the most because they would have to set up the program and gear
the training to the “Unique Area” and it would be good to know if the
$36,000 is just for the first year and the following years it would be less.
Ms. Alden said that she believes they are anticipating that it would be
$36,000 each year but will clarify that.
Mayor Pugh stated that it would be very helpful to have an itemized
Budget as well as a written authorization from the “DEC”.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
appreciates the devotion that Ms. Alden and Ms. Considine have to the
“Croton Gorge”. Mr. Riely stated that this problem has been going on for
many years; and since some of the area is owned by the State, they
should be taking responsibility and the Board should be putting pressure
on them. Mr. Riely stated that the State has closed many areas in an
attempt to protect certain properties because of overuse and suggested
that the State consider closing “Croton Gorge” for at least a couple of
years so that the property can recoup from the overuse.
A motion to take a short break was made by Trustee Habib and seconded
by Trustee Simmons. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
7. RESOLUTIONS Resolution #2 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the Memorandum of Agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
and the Croton Police Association, covering the period June 1, 2019 – May 31, 2024
and authorizes the expenditure of funds consistent therewith.
Resolution #3 of 2020
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 8

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village currently has one open position in the Police Department; and
WHEREAS, Police Chief Russel Harper has conducted an extensive background
check of Edwin Jandres and recommends the hiring of Mr. Jandres for the position of
Police Officer,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that Edwin Jandres is hereby appointed as a
Police Officer in the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department at the salary of
$63,048.28, pending ratification of the new Croton Police Association collective
bargaining agreement; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such appointment is pending approval from
Westchester County Department of Human Resources in accordance with all rules
and regulations.
Resolution #4 OF 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABID, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, in October 2019, storm conditions caused a tree to fall at Sunset Park,
which caused damage to the park fence; and
WHEREAS, the estimated cost of repairs for this damage was $1,400; and
WHEREAS, the village received a reimbursement check from its insurance company
for these repairs in the amount of $1,277.61,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2019-2020 budget in the amount of $1,277.61 as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A1000.2680 – Insurance Recoveries
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A7140.4140 – Playgrounds – Equip. & Grounds
8

$1,277.61

$ 876.21

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 9

A8560.4000 – Shade Trees – Contractual

$ 401.40

Resolution #5 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the climate crisis is causing irreparable harm to our community, nation,
and planet; and
WHEREAS, opportunities exist to reduce our municipal carbon footprint and energy
use; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson will be receiving rent from the solar
power system being installed on the DPW Garage roof in the amount of
approximately $25,000 a year; and
WHEREAS, the Village would like to use a portion of that rent to pay for ways to
reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its energy use;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to place 50% of that rental revenue into a
dedicated capital account; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such revenue will be dedicated to funding
opportunities that will provide the Village with the highest available projected GHG
reduction value, in metric tons (MT) per invested dollar; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that priority will be given to those projects with simple
paybacks of 10 years or less, net of grants and rebates, toward cutting Village
government energy costs; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that if revenue-producing energy systems are installed
elsewhere on Village property (e.g., solar carports at parking lots) in the future, the
same portion of their revenue will be added to the account.
DISCUSSION:

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 10

Mayor Pugh stated that this is a wonderful cycle that Lindsay Audin and the entire
“Sustainability Committee” created and this special “Capital Fund” is a great downpayment for further energy efficient projects that will reduce greenhouse gases.
Trustee Gallelli stated that we are already getting some money from our
energy/greenhouse gas reduction efforts; this is an excellent idea and maximizes
what we are already doing.
Resolution #6 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that
establishes a “property tax cap” on the amount that a local government’s property
tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS, this law became effective for a local government’s fiscal year beginning
in 2012; and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes
charged on the municipality’s taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at
2 percent or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap
to protect the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event that an override is necessary,
the law enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2020 has been drafted to override the
“property tax cap” law enacted by State Legislature if necessary;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Tuesday, January 21, 2020 at 8 p.m. in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2020 to override the “property tax cap”
law enacted by State Legislature.
8. PUBLIC PARTICIPION NON-AGENDA ITEMS –
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 11

Fred Wilhelm, 2 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, explained why he has
been unable to clean up his property and asked the Board for more
consideration. Mr. Wilhelm stated he is also working on installing a fence.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, suggested that any
claims of savings as a result of the Village’s conservation efforts should be
audited by an outside firm to see if in fact there has been savings; State
reimbursements and grants are not a savings, it just comes out of one
pocket and goes into another. Mr. Riely stated that we should also be
very be concerned when Indian Point closes that we have adequate
energy. Mr. Riely stated that he lives on the Croton River, there has been
several drownings on the River and encouraged the Board to
communicate that to the State.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on December 16, 2019 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on January 2,
2020 was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to amend the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on November
18, 2019 that were previously approved was made by Trustee Simmons.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10.REPORTS –
Trustee Habib thanked Village Manager King for her help and assistance;
as a new Trustee her professionalism and effort in getting him up do
speed as soon as possible was greatly appreciated.
Trustee Simmons stated that it has been a pleasure working with Village
Manager King and thanked her for everything she has done for the Village.
Trustee Gallelli stated that Village Manager King has set a very high bar,
but since she will be with us for another six months, she will postpone any
additional remarks at this time.
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 12

Trustee Gallelli advised that she and Mayor Pugh attended the installation
of new Fire Department Chiefs this past Friday and thanked outgoing
Chief, Chris Colombo for his years of service and welcomed new Chief Phil
Dinkler, 1st Assistant Chief, John Munson and 2 nd Assistant Chief Josh
Karpoff.
Trustee Gallelli stated that over the last two meetings the Board has
passed two resolutions having to do with climate change; last month the
Village purchased an electric vehicle and applied for “Silver Certification”,
and this evening the Board created a Capital Account for funding
initiatives that would lower greenhouse gases; the Board is doing things in
a steady progressive way and taking advantage of opportunities as they
arise.
Trustee Gallelli advised that this coming Sunday “Holy Name of Mary” will
be holding their monthly “Sustainable Sunday”; “Croton 100” will be
talking about how it is possible for everyone to help individually to reach a
zero emission/greenhouse carbon initiative, the Board is also discussing
with “Croton 101” an opportunity to hold a joint program on similar issues.
Trustee Horowitz said that she would support a joint program with “Croton
100” and hopes that it could be a catalyst to adopt a climate policy for the
Village.
Mayor Pugh made the following appointments:
Ian Murtaugh
Robert Luntz
John Ghegan,
John Karpoff
Tatyana Polyak
Debi Braddick
Emily Boglioli
Hollis Anzani
Jana Bluestein
Adam Decker
Julie Evans
Greg Maher
Carol Shanesy
Nance Shatzkin
Mayor Pugh &

Marriage Office
Chair, Planning Board
Planning Board
Chair, Advisory Board of the Visual Environment
Advisory Board of the Visual Environment
Recreation Advisory Committee
Recreation Advisory Committee
Housing Task Force
Housing Task Force
Housing Task Force
Housing Task Force
Housing Task Force
Housing Task Force
Housing Task Force
Liaisons to the Housing Task Force
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 6, 2020
Page 13

Trustee Horowitz
Mayor Pugh advised that the Town of Cortland’s “Snow-Flake Program”
remains open for Senior Citizens, they can be reached by calling 914-5288377; Heat Complaints; contact Code Enforcement at 914-271-4783, after
hours Police Department at 914-271-5177.
Village Manager King gave the following overview of the Police Contract
Salary increases over the five year contract : 2% the first two years, 2 1/4%
the last three years; Police officers hired before 2014 will be contributing 10%
of their salary towards the health premium (previously they were paying a
percentage of their salary); Police Officers hired between 2014-2019 will
continue to pay 15%; new hires will be paying 20%.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion seconded by Trustee
Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

13

