MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday Jan. 26, 2020 - 221 Cleveland Drive
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
David Goldman
Len Simon

Joel Gingold
Absent:
Brian Pugh (Board of Trustees Liaison)
Jon Katz
Niall Kelleher
John Habib (Board of Trustees Liaison/new member)

Non-members wishing to attend are asked to RSVP to energywiz@aol.com to verify meeting date,
time, and location, which may be adjusted to meet committee member requests. [Bracketed] text
relates to actions subsequent to this meeting.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Scheduled guest(s): none
Personnel changes: Janine King retires 7/6/20, John Habib replaced Sherry Horowitz as liaison.
Lindsay asked Brian to ensure that Janine’s successor is not a climate change denier, or otherwise
dismissive of the issue.
Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:
- Food scrap recycling issues: The Village decided to postpone development of the facility until
2021. We have until September 2022 to spend DEC’s grant money (~$14,000). The goal had been
to get the scrap recycling process working by the 50th anniversary of Earth Day (i.e., late April), but
CCI’s failure to follow through on its commitment to manage the project forced the postponement.
Two alternatives were researched. First, Jon and Lindsay examined using an anaerobic digester to
process residential food scraps into methane for use at the Metro-North yard to heat water used in
train washing. Under the best conditions, Jon found that the payback period would exceed 20
years. Only with a very large grant (e.g., $200K+) could this concept be worth pursuing.
Second, Niall set up a Green Cone composter, a device for processing food scraps. A recent law in
Vermont mandated it as an option for managing residential scraps. Niall found that the system uses
solar heat from the cone, and adjacent well-drained soil and its microbes, to dry out (but not aerate)
and digest the scraps rather than actually composting them. As a result, there is no control over the
methane that would be emitted as part of that process, making it unacceptable as an alternative.
- EV/EVSE issues: The remaining MPGs for the Village’s vehicle fleet inventory were received or
found via web sites (we thank Dave for his continued work to that end). A review of the
remaining lives of Village trucks (based on odometer readings) indicates that most won’t need to be
replaced for at least several years. By then, affordable EV/PHEV versions of some trucks may be
available. A funding mechanism (see “new business”) will then be needed, in addition to whatever
grants are available, to finance such replacements, as well as chargers to power them.
The Fire Inspector’s car died and was replaced by a fully electric Nissan Leaf, approved by the
Village Board at its 12/16/19 meeting. We now have two municipal EVs. Janine got a $7K discount
at New Rochelle Nissan and Lindsay applied for another $5,000 reimbursement from a State grant.

1

The $7,500 EV tax credit was not renewed in the 2020 federal budget. Existing funds for auto
makers that have not yet hit their 200,000 sales threshold will be allowed to run out. Con Ed raised
the limit on its SmartCharge Rewards from $500 a year to $1,000 a year for off-peak EV charging.
With regard to EV school buses, Len reviewed options for federal funding assistance. He found
that money from EPA’s DERA (Diesel Emissions Reduction Act) is not helpful at this time because:
- we can't get federal money if we take any from the State under the VW Diesel Settlement
- the maximum we could get per bus is only $20K (which is only a small fraction of State grants)
- buses must be 2006 or earlier (only one Croton school bus is that old)
- it's a lottery under which we are competing with all other applicants in NY State
- the earliest we could even apply is next fall.
- DPW solar rooftop: Ecogy’s CESIR interconnection application should be accepted (or denied) by
by Con Ed by Jan. 30. If OKed, roof repair and PV installation could commence as weather allows.
The Village had received a $2,500 signing bonus, and will get another $1,000 if the CESIR is
approved. Once NYSERDA gives its OK (pro-forma if a CESIR is approved), the Village gets
another $1,000. When power starts to flow (hopefully before fall), ~$2,000/ month rent will start.
- Croton Library solar/LED options: At the Library’s Dec. 2019 board meeting, Ecogy’s revised
(rooftop only) proposal was declined. Ecogy had offered ~$3,400 in annual value to the Library. An
additional $2,500 signing bonus would have covered ~50% of the cost of an LED upgrade (after
Con Ed rebate) of Library lighting, which would - by itself - shave ~$3,000 a year off its electric bill.
Reasons for declining included: a non-profit should not “profit” off its assets, disruption of possible
renovations (adding a partial 2nd floor), and the library would rather self-fund the project in 3-5
years and take the power itself. Doing so would cost over $160K, likely requiring mortgaging the
building, which the Board had said was DOA as an option. Due to the Library’s Con Ed electric
rate, taking the power would cut $ savings by ~50%. Lindsay will push ahead on the LED upgrade.
- Other solar issues: NY PSC granted a 1-year reprieve (until 1/1/2021) on net metering for
residential and on-site commercial systems up to 750 kW, though it may also add a ~$1/month/
installed kW fee for the latter. Community solar doesn’t use net metering, so this issue has no
effect on the DPW project. At the federal level, solar’s 30% tax credit was not renewed in the 2020
budget. It will instead drop to 26% in 2020 and 22% in 2021. Starting in 2022, only commercial
distributed solar projects will get a 10% tax credit. The wind production tax credit got a 1-year
extension, to the end of 2020.
On 12/30/19, The Solar Foundation (a DOE contractor) designated Croton a Bronze SolSmart
Community. SolSmart promotes local governments that have performed various solar-related tasks
(e.g., passing the Unified Solar Permit). It has no relation to the Climate Smart Community effort.
SolSmart designation (which cost the Village nothing to achieve) gives Croton some good PR, but
nothing of actual value, e.g., access to grants. Croton will, however, get a free plaque.
- Climate Smart Community (CSC): All available documentation was submitted 1/7/20. All who
helped gather and configure data needed for our submissions are thanked for their untiring
efforts. Actions totaling 328 points were submitted, potentially securing silver certification (i.e., the
highest level). Silver previously required only 200 points, but the threshold was recently raised to
2

300. If DEC does not accept all our submissions, we will instead get bronze level certification
(which requires only 120 points). We should be notified by February 28.
Among the useful things we learned during the CSC submission process:
- our updated municipal GHG inventory (based on 2018 data) showed that (relative to the 2010
inventory), our municipal footprint has dropped by 15%. This is measured - not projected - data.
- DPW needs a work order tracking system (WOTS). Due to difficulty retrieving work orders and
their invoices, we had to forego some actions (and points) because of insufficient documentation.
Brian agreed to seek funding of such software during upcoming VB budgeting discussions.
- many of the Village’s pickup trucks have rather poor MPGs, which significantly contribute to
overall municipal GHG emissions.
- Water pumping kWh consumption and cost: Frank Balbi is still trying to get us interval data from
Con Ed. Janine has yet to provide answers to questions related to how the pumps are dispatched,
and how their VFDs are controlled. We hope to get that documentation when the engineering dept.
has time to respond in February. Brian agreed to pursue that before our next meeting. Research on
pressures of nearby municipal water systems found that some (e.g., NYC) are 50-60 psi. Ours was
measured at 80-90 psi, which may help account for its ~30% higher kWh/CCF.
Recruitment/Outreach:
Schools: Lindsay will attend the 1/28/20 school district’s ESC (Environmental Sustainability
Committee) meeting. At its 11/15/19 meeting, the district’s Steering Committee (above the ESC but
below the School Board) approved benchmarking. We asked that the 1/28 agenda include a status
report on the schools’ new energy performance contract and the benchmarking data being
collected pursuant to it.
In an email to our Committee, school board member Andrea Furey stated: “...To bring you up to
date, the Board had a discussion at our January 16th meeting that is in line with your thinking -that while we recognize the benefits of an energy audit we also recognize that it can be limited in its
scope. We do acknowledge that we are the largest carbon producer due to our identity as the
largest campus in town, and the fact that our work necessitates a large transportation fleet, which
arguably can help to lessen car traffic and emissions. We are developing an annual goal to
investigate the matter and to develop an appropriate strategy to cut emissions.”
In late November, Rochelle O’Mara (school transportation director) agreed to provide diesel and
gasoline usage data. We again asked for it via email on 12/29/19 but have not yet received a
response. Having it will help develop the school district’s full GHG inventory. Pursuant to a solar
evaluation of the garage’s rooftop, she also agreed to provide structural drawings for it.
As per our Committee’s suggestion last spring, the school district has set “sustainability” as the
theme of its “Experience Science 2020” event (May 7). With that suggestion, we had assembled
and given to the ESC a list of ~30 possible projects that students could pursue to that end.
Intern: Alexis Stabulas has finished her GIS analysis of Village tree cover using software from the
Natl. Forest Svc. If it’s correct, Village-owned forests may be a significant carbon sink. Jon and
3

Lindsay will check her work, Alexis will soon be moving to NYC to take a job with its DEP. We will
then need someone in the spring to complete her work.
We discussed how to account for trees along Village streets that are Village property (as versus on
State routes, e.g., Rt. 129, which are State property). We concluded that they could indeed further
lower our footprint, but such analysis was beyond Alexis’ scope of work. John asked about Village
codes on protecting and replanting of trees. Brian said such discussions should be routed to the
CAC since that is in its purview, rather than our committee.
Other: Croton100 continues to develop its programming toward a 20-year zero GHG goal for all of
Croton, based on a 5%/yr reduction process. Joel reported on its 1/12/20 meeting at HNM church.
He and John Habib reviewed other aspects of its efforts, including its Feb. 29 kickoff event at the
high school to encourage participation. Joel reviewed its one-on-one playbook process, which
seeks to inform residents and elicit GHG reductions from them. One of the main goals is to get
carbon footprinting started, toward which Croton100 is developing a phone app to make it easier.
Communications: letter from DEC re: CSC issues, email from Andrea Furey on school GHG issues
New/ongoing business:
- Con Ed rate increases: Under the accepted 3-year hike, a residential electric customer using 600
kWh/month will see an average total monthly bill increase of $5.46 or 4.2% this year, $6.37 or 4.7%
starting January 2021, and $5.65 or 4% starting January 2022. A residential gas heating customer
using an average of 100 therms/month will see an average monthly bill increase of $11.37 in the
first year, or 7.5%, a $14.44 increase in the second year, or 8.8%, and a $12.86 increase in the
third year, or 7.2%. In general, the hikes are about 25-30% of what Con Ed had requested.
- New incentive programs: The Cuomo administration announced $6.8B in spending through 2025
on energy efficiency and renewables programs. That includes $1.5B for NYPA incentives and loans
focused on municipal customers (e.g., Croton). Con Ed will get $2B for programs for its customers.
Once we see the actual programs (e.g., $/ton for GSHP), we can review their local applicability.
Management of many incentive programs administered by NYSERDA is being transferred to DEC
- Solar options at Village properties: Mayor Pugh asked for reviews of solar carport options at
Croton Landing, Senasqua Park, and Vassallo Park (a/k/a Merwin Oak). Each could provide
approximately 200 kWac. The first two appeared feasible to Ecogy, but Croton Landing (due to its
shape) was better. Vassallo is too shaded to work without cutting down trees on others’ property.
Ecogy was concerned about the Landing being in a 100-year flood zone. Based on a review of
DEC and Village regs, that does not appear to be a major issue. Equipment from both Ecogy and
ChargePoint (if EV chargers were installed) are floodproofed.
Jon asked if Ecogy was considering batteries for power storage. Lindsay agreed to ask. The issue
of floodproofing of large batteries would need to be addressed. Ecogy will send us a proposal for
solar carports at the Landing. In Feb, it will report to the VB on status of the DPW solar project.
We again reviewed solar carports at the train station parking lots. Prior approaches from two solar
firms had been rejected (too little $ value to the Village), but subsequent changes to VDER (and
completion of demolition of the old DPW building) should raise that option again. Brian indicated
that a new solar RFP would be needed. There are many new vendors that may then wish to bid.
4

- Use of Croton Point landfill gas as truck or school bus fuel: Such gas is considered a renewable
resource. In December, Joel and Lindsay looked into options for using it as compressed natural
gas (R-CNG), as others have done with their landfills. Due to the age of the Croton Point landfill (it
was closed 34 years ago) Joel found that federal regulations on such emissions don’t cover it. Gas
output from closed landfills drops off after ~20 years, with most of it gone by 40 years. Others
looking into this option at Croton Point had earlier concluded it was not a viable resource.
Funds from the VW Diesel Settlement are available for new trucks using CNG (with no distinction
as to source). None of that money is available for conversion of existing trucks to use CNG, or for
infrastructure needed to compress gas. The only other available option is biodiesel, but it must be
stored below ground or indoors, neither of which is viable for our trucks or Croton’s school buses.
Bottom line: we will need to wait for economically acceptable EV/PHEV versions of our trucks (and
school buses) before pressing to reduce their GHG emissions. Replacements of gasoline-powered
cars with EVs should, however, continue to be pursued as the former age out of service.
- Funding mechanism for energy efficiency and GHG projects: On 1/6/20, the Village Board passed
our resolution to set aside 50% of revenue (not savings) produced by energy projects (e.g., DPW
solar) in a Village “climate change mitigation” account. Those funds would be allocated based on:
- highest available projected GHG reduction value, in metric tons (MT) per invested dollar
- simple paybacks of 10 years or less (net of grants, etc.) toward cutting Village energy costs.
If revenue-producing energy systems are installed elsewhere on Village property (e.g., parking
lots), a similar portion of their revenue would be added to the climate change account.
Other new business:
Jon outlined research he is initiating on the State’s Stretch Code, an existing voluntary and more
aggressive energy code than the NYS Energy Conservation Construction Code (NYS ECCC) that
governs new and modified buildings. Jon will examine how it encourages such facilities to be “solar
ready” to cut the installation cost of solar, and how it may do so for other desirable energy options
(e.g., GSHP). He indicated that upgrades pursuant to it can save 5-10% of a home’s energy
consumption while having a 5-8 year incremental payback. He also agreed to look for a list of
municipalities that have implemented it. Jon will report to us on this at our Feb. meeting. Brian
agreed to look into what types of financial incentives (e.g. temporary property tax abatement or
reduction) could be offered by the Village to help buy down the payback period. Doing so could
help reduce our community-wide carbon footprint.
Lindsay outlined an idea for fundraising to support Croton100’s activities. He agreed to flesh it out
and provide it for online discussion prior to our next meeting. It would take advantage of the
organization’s independent financial and legal position, and would involve Croton’s businesses.
John and Brian provided useful information (e.g., that Croton has 197 businesses) on how this idea
may be pursued. We will develop it further before discussing it with Croton100 or making it public.
John Habib detailed the relaunch of “The Croton Business Council”, which is an unincorporated
division of the Peekskill-based Hudson Valley Gateway Chamber of Commerce, and mentioned its
outreach work with sustainability-focused non-profit organizations such as Croton100, as part of
the Council’s overall emphasis on carrying out Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives in the
community.
5

Our next meeting was set for Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020 at 10:30 AM.

6

