Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, February 3, 2020 in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 8:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS:
Trustee Habib made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 2019-2020
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved with
a 5-0 vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$80,050.77
$10,025.39
$11,048.00
$142,529.18
$1,127.50
-

3. PRESENTATION:
Mayor Pugh congratulated Croton Harmon High School teachers, Tracey Finan
and Joseph Streany for achieving National Certification from the “National
Board of Professional Teaching Standards”.
4. PUBLIC HEARINGS PUBLIC HEARING NO. 1
A motion to open the Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory
No. 2 of 2020 to amend Chapter 197, “Streets and Sidewalks”, to
prohibit signage in the Village’s right-of-way was made by Trustees Gallelli.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager King explained that this Local Law is to clarify and streamline
some of the language in the existing law that was considered ambiguous and
hard to understand.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 2

Village Attorney Whitehead advised that this provision of no signage in the
public right-of-way already exists in the Village Code with one change to
include the word “Handbills. Village Attorney Whitehead explained that there
had been some issues in the past with the language and this law makes it
clearer as to what the law is intended to do which is to restrict all signs of any
kind from being placed within the public “right-of-way”. Village Attorney
Whitehead explained that this regulation must be “content neutral”, which
means that you cannot allow one type of sign and not allow others.
Trustee Gallelli reminded everyone that this does not apply to private
properties.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that people can place signs on their
private properties as long as they are outside the public right-of-way.
Mayor Pugh stated that this is a way for the Village to have a uniform policy
going forward with respect to signage in our public rights-of-way.
COMMENTS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that this law will
make it difficult for minority political parties who need to put out their signs.
Mr. Riely added that many community organizations use the public right-ofway to advertise upcoming events.
Roseann Schuyler, Olcott Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the text in
this law is essentially identical to what was proposed about eight months ago
and in 2017. Ms. Schuyler stated that during the public hearing in 2017,
Village Attorney Staudt made it clear that political signs would not be
removed from the public right-of-way but this evening we are told that no
signage will be allowed and it appears that this law is more restrictive than
the law that was proposed in 2017. Ms. Schuyler also asked how this law is
going to be enforced and what kind of records will be kept when signs are
removed.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that she was not present at that meeting
in 2017 and cannot confirm what Attorney Staudt said, but the law is clear
that it has to be “content neutral”.
Joel Gingold, 55 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, urged the board to leave
things as they are, he does not see the signs offensive, they are useful to
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 3

alert the community to events and is helpful to those that don’t participate on
social media and it is a way to find out what is happening in the village as
well as lending a small-town atmosphere to our community.
Ian Murtaugh, 60 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he considers
the signs litter, he lives in a part of the village that is inundated by signs and
passes hundreds of signs every single day. Mr. Murtaugh used the “Toll
Brothers” signs as an example of a billion dollar operation that is littering our
Village for homes to purchase in communities outside of Croton. Mr.
Murtaugh stated that if someone wants to put a Toll Brothers sign on their
private property, anyone is certainly entitled to. Mr. Murtaugh stated that he
views the Village’s right-of-way as private property and if the residents don’t
want someone putting a sign in front of their yard, we have the right to say
no, political signs can be placed on private property and there are other ways
for community organizations to advertise their events.
Debbie Braddick, 9 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, supported Mr.
Murtaugh’s comments, Benedick Blvd is filled with signs, people do not pick
them up and she has picked up election signs well after election day and
encouraged the Board to pass this.
Sarah Boyce, (no address given), suggested that if people do not remove
signs within twenty-four hours after an event then the Village should give
them a citation. Ms. Boyce stated that she does not know how the Village
would handle signs like the Toll Brothers’ signs, but we should not limit
people who want to put up tag sale signs.
Thomas Prudden, 62 Farrington Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he does
not support the law and is concerned that it has the potential to suppress
political speech, the public right-of-way is a very important platform for
various organizations and small clubs.
Ian Bonnell, 7 Bank Street, asked if this includes signs on the Croton trails, if
so, the village would not be able to post navigational aid signs and could be a
potential problem.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simmons and approve with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #11-2020
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 4

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 3-2, Trustees Simmons and Horowitz voting Nay.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 197, Streets and Sidewalks, of
the Village Code to prohibit signage in the Village’s rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2020 has been drafted to amend Chapter
197; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on February 3, 2020,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2020 amending Chapter 197, Streets and
Sidewalks, of the Village Code, which upon adoption becomes Local Law 3 of 2020.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib thanked the public for their input. Trustee Habib stated that he takes
very seriously the issue of burdening the public with unnecessary laws and
restriction of freedom of speech but hopes the public understands the reason for
this law, it is not about the First Amendment, it has nothing to do with political
advertising, and nothing to do with closing out speech, but rather it is about having
a law that is clear and not subject to guess work to the extent that we cannot even
enforce it. Trustee Habib stated that his goal with this law is to transition the
Village into embracing a trend that is going global and nation-wide of stopping the
abuse of public space with commercial speech and while he probably was the
person who put up the most election signs during this past election, he was the
person who also picked up the most signs the day after the election. Trustee Habib
asked everyone not to omit the environmental issue as well; these signs are not
recyclable and most of them go right into the dumpster. Trustee Habib stated that
by leaving commercial signs on our public right-of-way we are in essence endorsing
that company. Trustee Habib stated that he wants to be a part of the solution in
getting out the word for every non-profit about their events.
Trustee Simmons stated that this is something that he has been arguing against for
a couple of years, as stated by some of the speakers, there is somewhat of an old
charm to it, we do not have the Pennysaver any longer to find out about things
going on, and he is concerned that an event may be missed if it is just on social
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 5

media. Trustee Simmons stated that he likes seeing signs for the Little League and
Tag Sales, and while he agrees that the 1-800 MATTRESS signs are ugly and
disgusting the other information is homey and charming and he supports allowing
signs to be put up.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she did not support it several years ago, but since that
time she has observed that the sign situation has gotten worse in terms of the
nature of the signs and while not all of them are bad, many of them are. Trustee
Gallelli stated that she has also become more aware of all of the alternative
opportunities for the “good messages and good signs” such as bake sales, tag sales
and sign-up for Little League. Trustee Gallelli stated that people can support
whatever they would like to support with a sign on their own private property,
nursery schools, church events, blood drives and Little League all have their own
members and those people who are supporting that should consider putting the
sign on their front lawn. Trustee Gallelli added that there are other ways through
social media, advertising and letters in the local newspaper to get the word out and
she does not believe this is against or for any political party and it is the right law to
pass at this time.
Trustee Horowitz stated that this has nothing to do with politics but feels that signs
in the public right-of-way are a lovely way for the community to talk to each other
and is opposed to the law.
Mayor Pugh stated that since 2017 we established the Village’s free electronic
community calendar that comes out every week listing events sponsored by nonprofits in the community and it is a way that local organizations can reach out to the
public. Mayor Pugh stated that there has been a proliferation of commercial signs
and he does not find them charming or quaint and as Trustee Gallelli stated, our
local community organizations have members in the community, dozens if not
hundreds, and they can have just as much of an impact in getting the word out by
having their membership post those signs on their front laws. Mayor Pugh stated
that there is no reason to put those signs on the public right-of-way especially if the
price of that is to allow other advertisers to take advantage of our community and
use it as a dumping ground for their corporate messaging.
Village Manager King explained that our Code Enforcement Officer will be picking up
signs on a weekly basis; if local organizations want to pick up their sign it would be
available for a short time since we do not have room to store hundreds of signs.

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 6

Village Attorney Whitehead stated that this law exempts “directional signage” and
street signs. Village Attorney Whitehead emphasized that this law exists today, if
the Village wanted to start taking signs down now, it could, we are just cleaning up
the language that already exists.
PUBLIC HEARING NO. 2
A motion to open the Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory
No. 9 of 2019 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning with regards to the Municipal
Place Gateway area and Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2019 to
amend Chapter 230, Zoning, with regards to the North Riverside Avenue
neighborhood was made by Trustees Habib. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that the changes that were made since
the previous public hearings are a result of comments made by the public as
well as the Planning Board and the Village’s Consultant. Local Law No. 9 with
respect to “Municipal Place” focuses primarily on the three properties at the
heart of the “Municipal Gateway”, the feeling that those properties are
different from other properties within this portion of the C2 Zone; the
following are some text amendments made in response to the comments: 1)
provide a fifty-foot vegetative setback to the residential properties on both
Wells and Beekman, 2) at the request of the Planning Board, the Board of
Trustees will have discretion to reduce the public open space below the ten
percent provided the Board of Trustees finds that other public benefits are
being provided, 3) reduce the maximum floor area ratio to 0.5 which
substantially reduces the amount of square footage of development that
could be put on these properties, and 4) cleaning up language recommended
by the Planning Board most of which is to make it clear that an attached
single family home Townhouses would be permitted under these new
provisions and to allow them in a couple of places.
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that with respect to Local Law No. 10 on
“North Riverside” the intent is to try to make the Zoning more consistent with
the existing character and reduce the number of non-conformities within this
area as well as reducing the size of the potential development within the
area, prior to this the maximum floor ratio allowed in the C2 was 2.0, in the
new proposed zones it has been reduced down to 0.8, the Zoning also
creates the new “Riverside Commercial” Zone and the “Riverside Transition”
Zone, those properties that are currently Zoned C1 or C2 that have
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 7

residential uses will be re-zoned to “Residential”. The changes made since
the prior hearings came from recommendations from the Planning Board that
include a fair amount of language clean-up and adding the two new Districts
into a number of relevant sections of the Code, the thirty-foot “rear yard
setback” remain the same and addresses the concerns that the public had,
the maximum building height remains at thirty-five feet.
COMMENTS by Public
Len Simon, Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes
the proposed amendments to the “Municipal Place Gateway” and “North
Riverside” area are consistent with “best practices” he has seen in other
successful communities, the amendments also include guardrails to meet
concerns regarding safety, traffic and greenspace and believes that if
adopted it will be a starting place to what will be a vigorous RFP solicitation,
evaluation and negotiation process. Mr. Simon stated that Croton needs more
housing opportunities for current and new residents as well as growing our
tax base so that we can continue to provide services and amenities to our
residents.
Nancy Heppner, 9 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that the current
“Comprehensive Plan” includes some language stating that new development
and improvements should not obscure views of the river from uphill locations.
Ms. Heppner stated that while she admires the concept of reducing the “FAR”
she is concerned with allowing three floors instead of the current two, it will
make a developer build up and could result in interfering with views and
asked that the language remain in the new zoning proposal that would
preserve river views.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that things like impacts on views is
something that the Planning Board would review when looking at a “Site
Plan” application; just because it is not written in the law, it does not mean
that it would not be considered. Village Attorney Whitehead emphasized that
the law today currently allows thirty-five feet, this is not a change and
directed the community to the web-site to review the Planning Consultant’s
“view shed” analysis to show that even at thirty-five feet, the views from the
residential properties would not be impacted.

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 8

Village Manager King stated that she believes that the “view shed” from Bank
Street does show that if a building goes to thirty-five feet there would be
some impact.
Jonathan Liss, 8 Barton Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that his property
abuts the commercial property of “Croton Hardware” and is glad that the setback has been clarified at thirty-five feet. Mr. Liss stated that he understands
re-zoning from commercial to mixed-use on North Riverside, but he is located
between Brook and Grand and there is no residential and is curious why that
needs to be changed. Mr. Liss also asked what would prevent a commercial
or mixed use property from being built up thirty-five feet when the property
starts at a higher elevation and what protection would there be for trees that
currently act as a buffer between the residential and the commercial
property.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the stretch on “North Riverside” is
currently transitional and allows commercial and residential uses. Village
Attorney Whitehead pointed out that in the Planning Board’s section of the
Code it talks about what the Planning Board is supposed to review with
respect to “Site Plans” approvals, it specifically indicates that the Planning
Board is to consider views and scenic vistas.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Planning Board would do a very detailed review of
each site and it is important to understand that the Zoning, which sets out
the “outer limits” of what could be built, does not mean that everything that
is allowed in the zoning gets built, it is subject to Planning Board review and
the Planning Board takes into consideration a lot of specific factors such as
views or the way a driveway might interact with traffic patterns and other
considerations.
Kathryn Riter, 7 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that if you build up to
thirty-five feet on “North Riverside” it will obstruct her view. Ms. Riter stated
that she is also concerned about parking, there is no parking on South and
North Riverside as well as Bank Street and putting in more residential units is
going to make it worse.
Michael Ribosh, 13 Wood Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
concerned about the impact on school enrollment and asked if there is data
that points to the impact on enrollment.
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 9

Mayor Pugh stated that the school
“Environmental Assessment Form”.

enrollment

is

included

in

the

Trustee Simmons advised that the School District’s enrollment shows that it
has lost about one-hundred students over the last decade and they expect to
lose another one-hundred over the next decade which indicates some
demographic changes.
Joel Gingold, 55 Nordica drive, Croton on Hudson, urged the board not to do
anything to the Zoning that will permit high density residences on the Katz
property, the survey showed that sixty-eight percent of the people who
responded indicated that they do not want any additional housing in this
area. Mr. Gingold stated that that only ten percent of apartments have to be
set aside for affordable housing and with eighty apartments very few will be
affordable. Mr. Gingold asked what the changes do to the density that would
be permitted on the “Katz” property and asked the Board to commit to a
maximum number of housing units. Mr. Gingold also stated that, as a
resident or Nordica Drive, he has very little faith in the Planning Board and
Village Board to control development in this Village.
Mark Alexander, 58 Farrington Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
moved to Croton from Long Island and does not want Croton to become
overcrowded like Long Island where quaint communities have been
overdeveloped and now have over-crowded streets with no parking. Mr.
Alexander stated that his family moved to Croton to avoid that.
Lauren Davis, 14 Hamilton Avenue, stated that she does not believe the
thirty-five foot “Set-Back” will protect us in light of all the trees that will be
cut down and she is concerned about an apartment building being built into
the hillside. Ms. Davis asked how we can trust what the next step is going to
be, while we have been told that the “Set-Back” is thirty-five feet, she would
like to know thirty-five feet from where?
Daniel Bennett, 40 Van Wyck Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
concerned about development on the Katz property; there are so many
different things that can be done on the property without having to develop it
such as a park, consolidating DPW operations, or putting in a new firehouse
and asked that the Board listen to the community’s concerns.

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 10

Jane Kuntz, 40 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is concerned
about losing her view, it is what makes her house special and would hate to
see the view go away for the sake of adding a few more apartments.
Lisa Morsberger, 3 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if the Board had
an opportunity to review the petition that she submitted two weeks ago. Ms.
Morsberger stated that she is also concerned that the community did not
receive more notice about this meeting and asked the Board to take more
time to review the comments made in the petition.
Nancy Ward, 6 Hughes Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she wants to
continue to have the peace and quiet of a small community; tenants do not
pay taxes and is concerned that those families will not contribute to school
taxes and that development will be a total detriment and not give us the
return we are looking for, we are already a commuter-town and a lot of
people do not shop in the area either.
Debbie Braddick, 9 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
believes that if something was built on the Katz property it may have the look
of what was built on the corner of Benedict and South Riverside which is a
very beautiful building with apartments and businesses below which has been
an improvement to that area.
Ms. Braddick stated that it is her
understanding that this is to have a fair guidance how the community will go
forward in a couple of specific areas and is interested in seeing the
community grow like Riverside Avenue has.
Richard Olver, Whelan Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that housing is
becoming less affordable for the middle class and young people, we have a
wonderful Village with a small town feel but we have to adapt within our
margins to make it livable for future generations. Mr. Olver stated that when
the highway came through it destroyed the lower Village and we have not
been able to consolidate a downtown since then, we have tried to encourage
small businesses to come to Croton with small apartments above, but it has
really not worked. Mr. Olver advised that fifteen years ago the Village looked
at what would work and what they came up with is exactly what we see now
at Benedick and South Riverside. Mr. Olver stated that he is glad to see that
the community has been engaged in the process and believes that the
Planning Board will assure decent views, setbacks and other specific
requirements to keep the Village and its neighborhoods the way we want
them to be.
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 11

Andy Philips, 40 Palmer Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
understands that Croton needs revenue but believes that this is going to
force businesses out because multi-family units will add parking at a place
where parking is already unsustainable.
Bob Resnikoff, 27 Van Wyck Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he thinks
the Board is trying to do the right thing, but there is a lot of opposition among
the residents and suggested that the Board put forth a referendum to the
community on this matter.
Marci Cohen, 15 Hillside Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that what the
Board is proposing is extreme and not necessary, it is not what many of the
residents of Croton want and supports putting this up to a vote.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Board cannot choose to put
anything it wants up for a referendum, as per New York State Law there are
legal provisions on what can be put to a referendum and a Zoning issue
would not qualify.
Erik Ferguson, 2 Alexander Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is hearing
some good ideas such as businesses on the first floor with apartments on the
upper two floors, but sometimes set-backs are very often bad because they
can create sprawl. Mr. Ferguson stated that growth is inevitable, there is a
right way and a wrong way to do it and the right way is to find the right place
for each of these pieces.
Kathy Wasik, 50 Irving Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she has heard
the Board speak about the environment, but she is troubled that developing
the “Katz” property would include taking down hundreds of mature trees and
encouraged the Board to consider this.
Fred Tames, 6 Barton Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that his backyard is
directly above Croton Hardware, his view is unobstructed, and while he is not
opposed to more housing he is opposed to a three story structure and
supports the idea of a referendum and asked if there is a way to do it. Mr.
Tames stated that he believes that this will result in minimum taxes collected
vs. more empty commercial spaces.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that New York State Law does not allow
for it; New York State Law sets forth specifically what things can be put forth
for a referendum, a board cannot put forth a question to a referendum.
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 12

John Ghegan, 54 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked the following
questions; can he purchase land as an outsider of Croton and build cheap
apartments, can he build what some might consider gaudy but meet the
present day standards, what does the Village get financially from the
builders, can the Village keep a qualified builder from buying and putting up
apartments and homes on land that they bought and what does the Village
get out of making rules and regulations in regards to building.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that someone cannot come in and just
build anything, “New York State Building Codes” set guidelines and standards
on how buildings can be built and as far as what would be allowed by the
Village would be determined by the Planning Board through the “Site Plan”
approval process. Village Attorney Whitehead advised that the Planning
Board has a list of things to look at that includes aesthetics, parking, the
layout of the parking, how the building is laid out, how it will work within the
property and if it complies with the Zoning.
Steve (no last name given), (no house number given) Grand street, Croton on
Hudson, stated that he is not actually against development, his primary
concern is the compound growth of traffic; in the short time that he has been
in Croton he feels it is getting worse, we also have the unique characteristic
that we draw in traffic from the outside because of our good commuting
situation and feels that the Village will be put under a lot of pressure to put in
more traffic control devices which could increase the time for residents to get
around the Village.
Ian Bonnell, 7 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, suggested building a trail on
the Katz Property so that it goes over to the bus stop which would help to
reduce traffic, with respect to North Riverside, he suggested reducing the
thirty-five foot height along the southern portion of Bank Street to help
reduce the chances of obstruction and is concerned that there will not be
enough places to park.
Steve Varvaro, 1263 Albany Post Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that sixtyeight percent of the people that answered the survey said no, and he has not
heard a compelling reason for the Village to sell the “Katz” property and then
try to develop housing units and is very concerned about traffic.

12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 13

There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the Public hearing was made Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Mayor Pugh stated the following; the proposed Local Law has parking
minimums that vary by zoning, type and usage; under the current zoning, the
“Katz” property is not zoned as a park, it is zoned commercial and could be
developed today as a commercial property, and what has not been
articulated this evening is why the current “C2 Zoning” of the “Katz” property
is in any way superior then what is currently being proposed.
5. CORRESPONDENCEa. E-mail from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated January 29,
2020 advising of membership changes within the Fire Department
b. E-mail from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated January 29,
2020 requesting permission for the Fire Department to hold their “Big
Ticket Raffle” fundraiser.
On motion by Trustee Gallelli, and seconded by Trustee Habib, the
Board of Trustees approved the request from the Fire Department to
hold their “Big Ticket Raffle” fundraiser. Motion was approved with a
5-0 vote.
c. E-mail from Andy Finkelstein, co-chair of the “Diversity and Inclusion
Committee”, dated January 29, 2020, requesting permission to jointly
organize a candlelight vigil with the Croton Harmon High School.
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Habib the
Board of Trustees approved the request from the “Diversity and
Inclusion Committee” to jointly organize a candlelight vigil with the
Croton Harmon High School. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
6. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS Nancy Ward, 6 Hughes Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that with respect
to the proposed Local Laws, she is concerned about traffic especially when
large events are held in the community, and this should be taken into
consideration.
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 14

Ian Bonnell, 7 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is very
concerned about the increase in antisemitism and encouraged the Board
to pass resolution e. this evening. Mr. Bonnell stated that as a twenty-six
year old, he is essentially representing the future generation who may
want to live in croton and understands the need for low income housing,
but at the same time the “Katz” property may not be the best place to put
it.
8. RESOLUTIONS Resolution #12 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003; and
WHEREAS, this Local Law called for the setting of Village Fees through Board
Resolutions; and
WHEREAS, the Village wishes to revise the vendor registration fees for Summerfest
to help cover some of the costs of the event,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees approves the below
fees for Summerfest vendor registration to be added to the fee schedule:

General Vendor
Food/Beverage Vendor
Non-Profit/Civic Vendor

Early Bird
(until May 1)
$75
$125
$50

Regular
(after May 1)
$100
$175
$65

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib asked if we are at market pricing for these booths. Trustee Habib
stated that he would be willing to help in any way to maximize the revenues for
“Summerfest” so that it benefits the Village for next year but at the same time not
out-price ourselves especially for non-profits.
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 15

Village Manager King stated that it is a little low, but it is an increase from last year.
Village Manager King stated that we pretty much sold out Vendor spaces last
summer.
Trustee Habib stated that it is a wonderful event, but the market analysis could
probably withstand a re-look in 2021 and going forward.
Village Manager King advised that we have made a comparison of fees from other
communities and believes it best to raise it slightly this year and then take another
look at next year.
Mayor Pugh stated that historically we had not sold out but under the leadership off
Manager King and the assistance of Brian Healy we added twenty additional
vendors then the previous “Summerfest”. Mayor Pugh stated that he shares
Trustee Habib’s objective of making sure that the Village is not leaving money on
the table, most Vendors make a good amount of money at these events and we
should not be providing a subsidy but at the same time we don’t want to
overcharge to the point where we drive people away and endorses the Manager’s
approach of gradually trying to feel that out.
Resolution #13 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village Fire Department provides fire protection service to the Town
of Cortlandt (“the Town”) for the Mount Airy/Quaker Bridge Fire Protection District
on a contract basis each year; and
WHEREAS, the Town has provided the Village with the 2020 Quaker Bridge Fire
District Agreement between the Town and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the 2020 agreement for fire protection services with the Town; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: the Town shall pay the Village the sum of $347,535,
with $69,507 paid directly to the Fire Council of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and
the balance of $278,028 paid to the Village, for providing fire protection services
within the Mount Airy/Quaker Bridge Fire Protection District during the period from
January 1, 2020 until December 31, 2020.
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 16

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that this is an annual Agreement with the Town for the Village
to provide coverage for this area of Quaker Bridge that is not easily accessible by
any Town Fire Department.
Resolution #14 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, on August 25, 2019, the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department responded
to a fire at 2 Birch Court; and
WHEREAS, due to the severe damage caused by the fire, the structure was
condemned by the Village Engineer; and
WHEREAS, the Village Engineer arranged for WD Excavation & Contracting Inc. to
respond to the scene to demolish the remaining structure for safety reasons; and
WHEREAS, the property owner agreed to be responsible for the cost of the
demolition; and
WHEREAS, as of this date, the invoice, in the amount of $1,400, remains unpaid,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized
to place the past due receivable on the tax bill for 2 Birch Court in the event that
the invoice remains unpaid on the date of the budget adoption for the fiscal year
June 1, 2020, through May 31, 2021.
Resolution #15 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, on March 19, 2018, the Board of Trustees authorized the Village
Manager to sign a lease agreement with New York SMA Limited Partnership d/b/a
Verizon Wireless (“Verizon Wireless”) providing for the rental of Village property
located at 1 Van Wyck Street; and
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 17

WHEREAS, on December 3, 2018, the Board of Trustees unanimously adopted a
resolution to issue a special permit to Verizon Wireless for the construction of a
tower upon which there will be a collocation of a personal wireless facility at 1 Van
Wyck Street; and
WHEREAS, on December 13, 2019, Verizon Wireless submitted revised drawings for
their personal wireless facility, which included the following changes:

1. The height of the lattice mast has been increased 16 inches and the location
of the antennas on the mast, including Town antennas, have been adjusted
as needed with the Town's items above the guy wires shown (see Pages C-3
and C-4 of the 2019 Drawing);
2. The ballast mount for the RRHs on the roof was moved from the east side of
the lattice mast to the north side of the lattice mast (see Page C-2 of the
2019 Drawing);
3. The cabinets in the equipment room were moved toward the center of said
room and different cabinets were used (see Page C-4 of the 2019 Drawing);
4. Cabling details have been added, including number, size and location of
cables, cable rout changed slightly, and cable port added to existing rooftop
doghouse (see Pages C-2, C-2a, C-3 of the 2019 Drawings); and
WHEREAS, upon review of these drawings, the Village Engineer has determined that
the above changes are de minimis changes to the 2018 approved drawings and do
not warrant an amendment to the special permit; and
WHEREAS, paragraph 8 of the executed lease with Verizon Wireless allows for
changes to the drawings upon written approval of the Village,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the proposed changes by Verizon Wireless; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the changes are approved in accordance with the
provisions outlined in paragraph 8 of the lease agreement; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees accepts the Village
Engineer’s recommendation that an amendment to the special permit is not
necessary.
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 18

Resolution #16 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, our nation was founded on the principles of religious freedom and the
right of all people to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness; and
WHEREAS, contrary to those principles there has been a significant increase of
violent anti-Semitic attacks throughout the United States and particularly New York
State's Hudson Valley Region; and
WHEREAS, the Anti-Defamation League states that a preliminary analysis of 2019
data shows that New York will have recorded the most anti-Jewish hate crimes since
1992; and
WHEREAS, recent attacks against the residents of Monsey and Yorktown have
continued this disturbing trend; and
WHEREAS, the residents of Westchester County have a long history of speaking out
and protecting Human Rights,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson are appalled by the anti-Semitic attacks here at home and on its
Rockland County neighbors and stand in solidarity with the people of Yorktown and
Monsey and in rejecting all forms of bigotry, hatred, or discrimination of any kind;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: the Village Board is committed to promoting openness,
inclusion, freedom and mutual understanding by ensuring all people, regardless of
race, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin or immigration
status may live free from violence, harassment or prejudice. The Board will make
every effort to ensure that our community is one where all people are welcome,
included and respected.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that this is something that the County Executive has circulated
County-wide and is being adopted by communities across our region, it is in many
ways symbolic, but believes that symbolism can have a value, unfortunately a lot of
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 19

this criminal behavior is related to extremist rhetoric that has been amplified by
irresponsible media outlets. Mayor Pugh stated that the District Attorney is
scheduled to attend the March 2 nd Board Meeting to give the Board an update about
what the District Attorney’s office is doing to address hate crimes and other
challenges facing our community.
Resolution #17 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS , the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019, the Village Board approved a bond resolution in
the amount of $408,000, for architectural services related to the police department
renovation; and
WHEREAS, the Village has met with a number of construction management
companies to ascertain proposals for the pre-bid work; and
WHEREAS, Chief of Police Russel Harper has recommended the proposal submitted
by Calgi Construction Co. of White Plains, New York, in the amount of $27,300; and
WHEREAS, this proposal includes work to be done in the design development phase
and construction document phase,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the agreement from Calgi Construction Co. of White Plains, New York, in the
amount of $27,300 for design development and construction document work; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that this amount should be charged to capital account
H3120.2102.09193.
9. PUBLIC PARTICIPION NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ian Bonnell, 7 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that there are blind
spots coming out of Bank Street and asked the Board to take a look at this
area. Ian Bonnell also asked the Board to revitalize some of the trails for
students who walk to school and expand trails in other areas to make it
easier for people to walk.
10.APPROVAL OF MINUTES 19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 20

Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on January 6, 2020 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11.REPORTS –
Trustee Horowitz announced that “Eaglefest” will be held this Saturday
sponsored by Teatown, Teatown has set an impressive goal of producing
only one bag of trash during the entire event and encouraged everyone to
help towards that goal; “Croton 100” will be hosting a presentation by
Robert Whittaker from the” Climate Education Project” on February 13 th at
7:30pm at Village Hall, the presentation will be televised for those that
may not be able to attend
Trustee Habib advised that the “Croton Business Council” will be having a
table at “Eaglefest” offering table space to non-profits from Croton and
encouraged everyone to stop by the table.
Trustee Simmons welcomed Nellas to Croton; it opened on Saturday
offering salads and smoothies and many other choices.
Trustee Gallelli advised that Grievance day will be held on February 18 th
from 4:00pm-8:00pm, the Board of Trustees will be sitting as the Board of
Assessors, anyone interested in grieving their taxes can pick up an
application at the Building Department.
Trustee Gallelli advised that last week she attended a meeting at
Westchester County with the “Croton Census Committee” regarding the
upcoming Census, anyone interested in working on the Census can find
information on the Westchester County and Croton websites. Trustee
Gallelli also advised that as a Croton representative on the Westchester
County Senior Council she attended a meeting held by the “Westchester
County Department of Aging” and will be updating the committee on
upcoming events.
Trustee Gallelli also thanked everyone who came out this evening to
comment on the Public Hearings.
Mayor Pugh thanked everyone who came out to speak this evening and to
those who have participated in this process.
20

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 3, 2020
Page 21

Mayor Pugh thanked and expressed his deep appreciation to the Diversity
and Inclusion Committee for their Interfaith Martin Luther King
celebration. Mayor Pugh advised that he and Deputy Mayor Gallelli
attended the Fire Council ‘s last meeting and thanked them for all the
work they do. Mayor Pugh reminded everyone that February is “Black
History Month”, the Diversity and Inclusion Committee will be hosing a
special program on February 24th in conjunction with “Historic Hudson
Valley”.
Village Attorney Whitehead addressed the use of parking spaces for the
Pizza Wagon as well as other events. Village Attorney Whitehead
explained that under “New York State Law”, public streets are held in the
“Public Trust” and a community is not allowed by law to give any
particular person the right to use a portion of a public street greater than
the rights of the general public. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that
allowing resident parking on certain streets is only allowed through special
legislation from the “New York State Legislature”.
Village Attorney
Whitehead stated that she understands that this was done on a trial basis,
but it is something that we no longer can continue.
Village Manager King advised that she has had some discussions with our
Village Engineer to possibly allow them to utilize the realtors private
parking space, a resolution was passed in the early nineties allowing
“sidewalk dining” which the Village Engineer is interpreting would be okay
under that provision. Village Manager King also stated that it would not
put the realtor out of compliance with the number of spaces they are
required to have. Village Manager King stated that if two businesses want
to come to an arrangement, she believes it would be acceptable because
it is not on the public street.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Habib. Motion seconded by Trustee
Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote. 11:01pm
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk
21

