Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Tuesday, January 21, 2020 in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 8:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS:
Trustee Habib made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 2019-2020
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a
5-0 vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$61,984.77
$12,927.27
$2,503.10
$116,821.60
$4,139.31
-

3. PUBLIC HEARING - Overriding the “Property Tax Cap” Legislation
A motion to open the Public Hearing to hear comments as it pertains to
overriding the “Property Tax Cap” was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion
was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this does not mean that the Board is going to
exceed the “Property Tax Cap”; it is just a precautionary measure and is
recommended by the “New York Conference of Mayor” (NYCOM) to
protect the Village from receiving a penalty if some unforeseen
circumstance occurs that may lead us to go over the “Tax Cap”. Trustee
Gallelli stated that this will most likely be rescinded before we approve our
Budget in April.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 21, 2020
Page 2

Resolution #7 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI , seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that
establishes a “property tax cap” on the amount that a local government’s property
tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS, this law is effective for local government’s fiscal year beginning in 2012;
and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes
charged on the municipality’s taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at
2% or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap
to protect the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event that an override is necessary,
the law enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2020 has been drafted to override the
“property tax cap” law enacted by State Legislature if necessary; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 21, 2020,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2020 to override the “property tax cap” law
enacted by State Legislature if necessary, which upon adoption will become Local
Law No. 2 of 2020.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh emphasized that this is just a precautionary measure; the Board has
every intention of remaining under the “Tax Cap” and we will hopefully repeal this
before our Budget adoption.
4. CORRESPONDENCE-

2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 21, 2020
Page 3

a. Letter from Michelle Minoff, Director of Community Engagement at
Temple Israel of Northern Westchester thanking the Village Board
and staff for the community Hanukkah celebration.
b. E-mail from Orietta Trocard, Regional Local Projects Manager of the
New York State Department of Transportation advising that the State
will be giving Croton an additional $750,000 for the “Croton Point
Avenue Traffic/Pedestrian/Bicycle Improvement Project”; this brings
the total amount from the State to $1,000,000.
Letter dated January 17, 2020 from Gabriela Paladino, the lowest
bidder, advising that they have agreed to hold his bid price until
Croton awards the project. Village Manger King explained that the
Village cannot award the Bid until the State approves various
submittals from the Village, but she is hopeful that we will be able to
award the bid sometime in February or early March.
5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - Bob Anderson asked
what the Village’s current Bond Debt is and how much does the Village
pay per year in debt payments.
Village Manager King advised that the current Debt level for all three
funds is $34,675,736.62, current Debt payment and Ban payments for this
Fiscal Year was $3,502,689.00; in 2015/16 it was $3,596,894, and in
2016/17 Debt payments were $4,142,289; the Debt increase in 2016/17
was due to some large water projects that the Village had undertaken.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Lisa Morsberger, 3 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, advised that she is
presenting a petition this evening signed by five hundred residents
indicating that they are against the rezoning of the “Municipal Place
Gateway” area centered around the intersection of Maple Street and
Municipal Place.
7. RESOLUTIONS Resolution #8 of 2020

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 21, 2020
Page 4

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 197, of the Village Code, Streets
and Sidewalks, to prohibit signage in the Village's rights-of-way; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory 2 of 2020 has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on February 3, 2020, at 8:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local
Law Introductory No. 2 of 2020 to amend Chapter 197 of the Village Code.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that this is an amendment to Chapter 197, “Streets and
Sidewalks” of the Village Code that would prohibit signage in the Village’s right-ofway; it changes some of the antiquated language that our Village Justice has
indicated is so vague and basically unenforceable; this amendment will provide
clear language and allow for more consistent enforcement. Mayor Pugh reiterated
that this law does not affect signs on private property.
To view the Local Law, log onto the following web-site:
https://crotononhudson.novusagenda.com/agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx?
ItemID=4822&MeetingID=750
Resolution #9 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, on November 5, 2018, the Village Board approved an agreement with
BFJ Planning of New York, New York, to serve as the Village’s consultant for the
North Riverside Avenue and Municipal Place Gateway Area zoning study; and
WHEREAS, this approval covered attendance at work group meetings, conducting
two public workshops and drafting a final report for the Village Board that will serve
as an amendment to the Village’s Comprehensive Plan; and

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 21, 2020
Page 5

WHEREAS, the Village Board reviewed the draft report at the September 9, 2019,
work session, and provided BFJ Planning with their feedback on the report; and
WHEREAS, based on this feedback, and the final report and Comprehensive Plan
Amendment compiled by BFJ Planning, the Village would like to amend Section 230
of the Village Code, Zoning, in relation to areas located in the North Riverside
Avenue and Municipal Place Gateway Area; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 and Local Law Introductory No. 10
of 2019 have been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened on November 6, 2019, and closed on
November 18, 2019 on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 and Local Law
Introductory No. 10 of 2019; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees considered comments from the public and
recommendations from the Planning Board and requested BFJ Planning prepare a
response and discussion of some of these comments as a supplement to its final
report; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees reviewed the BFJ Planning responses and
recommendations at board work sessions and directed certain changes be made to
each law to address the comments; and
WHEREAS, some of the revisions could be considered substantive and therefore the
Board of Trustees will notice and hold a new public hearing on the amended local
laws as well as the BFJ Planning report as an amendment to the Comprehensive
Plan,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby schedules a
Public Hearing for February 3, 2020, at 8 PM, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider the amendment
to the Comprehensive Plan, Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 and Local Law
Introductory No. 10 of 2019 both as revised to amend Chapter 230 of the Village
Code, Zoning.
8. PUBLIC PARTICIPION NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the proposed
changes to Chapter 197, “Streets and Sidewalks” appears to be the same
law that was voted down and believes that it violates the 1 st Amendment
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 21, 2020
Page 6

and punishes minority political parties. Mr. Riely stated that six months
ago the Croton River was closed down because it was polluted from waste
from too many people in the River and urged the Board to write to our
Governor and elected officials and demand that the River be closed. Mr.
Riely asked what the status is of moving the Kayaks to the Hudson River.
Mr. Riely also asked that the Board look at some of the road signage with
a view towards making our roads safer
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on January 6, 2020 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on January 6,
2020 was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS –
Trustee Habib advised that he recently attended a “Boot Camp/Best
Practices” training program sponsored by the “New York Conference of
Mayor” in White Plains. Trustee Habib stated that he takes resident’s
objections very seriously about over-restrictive legislation concerning
freedom of speech and encouraged more interaction between private
property owners to increase the use of signs if they so desire but opposes the
sea of free advertising all over the Village on our public right-of-way. Trustee
Habib reminded everyone that the “Plastic Bag Ban” will go into effect on
March 1, 2020 for “single use carry out plastic bags” and that Teatown will be
sponsoring their annual “Eaglefest” event on February 8, 2020 at Croton
Point Park.
Trustee Simmons stated that he had opposed making changes to the signage
the last time it was brought up. Trustee Simmons advised that they
addressed the issue with the owner regarding moving the Kayaks to the
Hudson River, but the owner believes that it would be too dangerous for most
people to kayak on the Hudson River. Trustee Simmons advised that
members of “CCI” and “Croton 100” suggested that there are many things
that individuals can do to reduce their own carbon footprint, the following is
their web site for more information: https://croton100.org/events.
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 21, 2020
Page 7

Trustee Gallelli advised that Thursday, February 13 th the Village and “Croton
100” will be sponsoring a presentation by Robert Whittaker, the presentation
will be televised for those that cannot attend. Trustee Gallelli also reminded
everyone that Tuesday, February 18th is Grievance Night, at Village Hall
between 4pm and 8pm.
Trustee Horowitz encouraged the community to come out and see Mr.
Whittaker’s presentation on February 13th; Mr. Whittaker is part of the
“Climate Education Project” and his message is very clear and compelling
and encouraged the community to attend.
Mayor Pugh advised that January 31 st is the last day to enroll in a health care
plan through the “New York State Health Exchange”; earlier today he had the
honor of meeting with members of Cub Scout Pack 28, he also attended a
Diversity and Inclusion’s Interfaith celebration at St. Augustine’s. Mayor Pugh
also thanked the staff for their hard work in clearing the snow during this past
weekend’s snow event, as well as our emergency workers for responding to
many incidents that day. Mayor Pugh also thanked the many residents who
cleared their sidewalks promptly.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Habib. Motion seconded by Trustee
Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote. 8:49pm
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

7

