MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday Mar. 1, 2020 - 221 Cleveland Drive
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
David Goldman

Joel Gingold
Brian Pugh
Niall Kelleher

Absent:
Len Simon
Jon Katz
John Habib

Non-members wishing to attend are asked to RSVP to energywiz@aol.com to verify meeting date,
time, and location, which may be adjusted to meet committee member requests. [Bracketed] text
relates to actions subsequent to this meeting.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Scheduled guest(s): none
Personnel changes: Due to a legal issue raised by the Village attorney concerning the number of
Village trustees that can serve on a committee, Sherry Horowitz will not be re-joining our committee.
Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:
- Food scrap recycling issues: Nothing new on our program, which has been postponed until spring
of 2021. SMM still indicates its composting system will be operational this spring.
In January, Westchester County announced its County-wide food waste study. It plans a 6-week
pilot project (to start this March) that would involve a receiving facility in Yonkers to take scraps
from one community (not named) and truck it to the Ulster composting site. Starting in September,
that program may be opened to all municipalities, with two options on collecting and transporting
the scraps. The better for us (in 2021) would be our present plan for drop-off collection at Municipal
Place, with pickup (at no cost to Croton) by a County-chosen (and paid) hauler. The destination is
still assumed to be Ulster County, but that may be related to when this study was done, and SMM’s
still unclear opening date.
During 2020, Westchester will also set up a scrap drop-off site at its existing Household Material
Recycling Facility (H-MRF) near the County Medical Center in Valhalla. It will take scraps from a
nearby small municipality and be focused on composting education. Its compost will be free to
County residents with any excess to be used by the County Parks Dept.
- EV/EVSE items: As of the end of 2019, our zip code (10520) had 109 EVs (either PHEV or BEV),
which is a 70% increase over 2018. The fire inspector’s new Nissan Leaf is now in service. At
tomorrow’s VB meeting, the Board will vote on a fund transfer to equip two new electric (but not
plug-in) hybrid police vehicles with light bars, car cage, laptops and printers in each vehicle. At the
1/28/20 meeting of the school district’s Environmental Sustainability Committee (ESC), it
announced that it will be replacing its mail delivery van with a Nissan hybrid van (not a plug-in) by
the summer. Via our proposal and Brian’s request, Janine King OKed free charging power to
Village employee-owned EVs working at the Muni. Bldg., using its two public charging ports. At the
Croton100 event, George Latimer (County Executive) announced that the County will be installing
EV chargers at several County-owned train station parking lots.
- DPW solar rooftop: On 1/29/20, Ecogy’s CESIR interconnection application was approved by Con
Ed with a few small changes (a 500 kVA transformer was required instead of the 300 kVA specified
1

by Ecogy). Ecogy stated it will absorb the extra cost with no changes to our bonuses or rent. Ecogy
expects to begin roof repair as weather allows, with work possibly starting by Earth Day (April 22).
During March or April, Ecogy plans to update the VB on scheduling that work.
- Other solar issues: See “new business” for Ecogy’s proposal for solar canopies at 2 Village parks.
On 1/30/20, White Plains (WP) announced its own municipal community solar projects on WPowned properties totaling about 6 MW. Six rooftop and ground-based systems are involved (none
of which are canopies). A different solar vendor was involved, chosen from ~100 bidders. On
3/15/20, Lindsay will attend a conference in Rockland County on solar canopies and batteries.
- Croton Library lighting/solar options: While the Library’s director continues his review of
alternative financing for a rooftop solar system, Lindsay will press for an LED upgrade of the
Library’s interior lighting. That effort has been delayed pending announcement of new Con Ed
incentives to be announced in mid-April, which may help finance that work.
- Climate Smart Community (CSC): DEC delayed its announcement of certifications from last
Friday to this Wednesday (3/6). Last Friday, we learned that 34 (out of 42) of our task submissions
were already approved. They totaled 197 points, far more than the 120 needed for Bronze level
certification. However, 8 others (worth ~120 points) were marked “needing revision”. One of those
8 is a “priority” action needed to grant any level of certification. [On 3/3/20, DEC told us:
“Your local government did not meet the requirements to be designated a certified Climate Smart
Community this round. Please know this is very common – it often takes two (or sometimes three)
attempts before municipalities achieve CSC certification; achieving certification is a high bar. In
your case, the village needs one more approved priority action before it can be certified…We look
forward to reviewing your revised application in April.”]
Many of the cited deficiencies involved public posting and opportunities for public comment on
documents (e.g., GHG inventories). The community gardens, however, were rejected because they
were not accompanied by a VB “policy resolution” on such gardens. If the VB can pass a resolution
addressing those issues at its 3/23 meeting, we will submit such revisions for approval in the next
round. Its deadline is 4/3, with revised certifications to be announced 5/22. Lindsay will develop the
requested revisions, draft the VB resolution, and get the revised submissions to DEC by 4/3.
Recruitment/Outreach:
Schools: Lindsay attended its 1/28/20 ESC meeting. Updates were provided on:
- energy performance contract - ECG was chosen as the energy consultant to handle the RFP,
which should be issued by this July. The winner will then perform an energy audit, develop options,
etc. That process will take 9-18 months (after July), to be completed by (roughly) the end of 2021.
- benchmarking – data being collected for that audit will be used for it. ECG will be asked to format
and enter it into Portfolio Manager (PM) so the 4 school buildings each get a PM score. Andrea
Furey asked that the school buildings’ carbon footprints be developed by an earlier date.
- EV buses – Rochelle O’Mara (school transportation coordinator) reviewed their issues (which we
previously discussed), and announced pending acquisition of a Nissan hybrid van as the district’s
new mail truck. In early February, she received a proposal for an EV bus costing the same as a
2

diesel bus, with the proviso that the seller would supply the charging power at an unstated electric
rate. We offered to review the proposal for her. She has not yet responded on the matter.
Interns: Last month, Joel and Lindsay reviewed Alexis Stabulas’ GIS analysis of Village tree cover.
Alexis responded to our queries, but recently took a job in NYC and has limited time to do more.
Despite initial misgivings on some details, we concluded her bottom line total of avoided GHG may
be reasonably accurate. However, Brian stated that the GIS files provided to her by Cortlandt were
out-of-date. [Lindsay sent them to Brian, who agreed to have Village staff correct them so we may
adjust Alexis’ work.] On 2/6/20, Guy Pardee of CAC (a professional arborist) agreed to help us
refine the default numbers used in the software via on-site tree surveying.
Joel reported on the University Climate Change Coalition (UC3), a new (2018) organization with 2
of its members in our area (SUNY Purchase and Westchester Community College), regarding
possible sources of interns or other possible liaisons. He awaits responses from both colleges.
Much of UC3 action in NY appears to be centered at Stony Brook University in Suffolk County on
Long Island. Joel agreed to review proceedings from UC3’s Atlanta conference.
Others: Joel reported on the 2/29/20 Croton100 kick-off event at the high school. He was quite
impressed with the professional way it was managed. Speakers included County Exec. Latimer,
Sandy Galef, homeowners discussing their own GHG reduction efforts, and others. The graphics
were good, talk was optimistic, and EVs were shown outside in the parking lot. It was announced
that Croton100 has secured 501(c)(3) status, allowing it to seek tax-deductible donations. Its goal
is to make all of the Croton community GHG-free in 20 years. While some committee members
expressed skepticism, all agreed that any step forward at this point is commendable.
On 3/8/20, HNM Church will host a 1-hour event on residential heat pumps. Committee member
Jon Katz will speak on ASHP and Dandelion with review GSHP. As per HNM’s request, a flyer on
the event was sent to Committee members.
Communications: A flyer was received about Sustainable Putnam, which had its first organizing
meeting (held in Mahopac) on 2/8/20. 49 people attended.
New/ongoing business:
Stretch Code analysis: Via email, Jon provided an outline of his research on this State Energy Code
option. Among the Stretch Code upgrades is designing for later installation of solar and EV options.
For new Croton homes, Brian agreed to look into what kind of financial incentive (e.g. temporary
property tax reduction/abatement) could be offered by the Village to help buy down the ~6-year
incremental payback. Doing so could help reduce our community-wide carbon footprint.
Local sustainability efforts by Scouts: At Lindsay’s request, Dave communicated with local Girl and
Boy Scout troops on sustainability activities and merit badges. We were very impressed at the level
and depth of their efforts. See Earth Day discussion for a follow-up action involving scouts.
Solar canopies at Village Parks: On 2/28/20, Ecogy proposed them over portions of the parking
areas at Croton Landing and Senasqua Parks. Vassallo Park had previously been found to be
inappropriate for them. At Croton Landing, Ecogy proposed a 181 kWp system consisting of two
parallel canopies. At Senasqua, it proposed one 106 kWp canopy. It offered a 20-year lease
agreement that would pay the Village $3,471 a year for the two sites together. The extra cost of
3

canopies, setting foundations in beach sand, and other issues result in the relatively low revenue
(compared to the DPW rooftop revenue). The proposal was nevertheless well received. It would
include EV chargers at each site, plus various other perks (a kiosk showing solar output). [Via
subsequent email, we asked Ecogy to draft and send a formal lease agreement to the Village.]
New incentive programs/grants: Specifics on them for both Con Ed and NYPA customers should be
available by mid-April. Via email, Len looked into the new Bezos Earth Fund for grants (scheduled to
be distributed this summer) to see if we (and/or Croton100) may be eligible. His memo says that
Bezos stated he will give “$10 billion to start” to “scientists, activists, NGOs – any effort that offers a
real possibility to help and protect the natural world.” Len said it’s too soon to tell and that he will
check back in a month. Dave mentioned that George Soros was giving (or had given) a lot of money
to solar ventures. Lindsay asked that Dave look into it.
Fundraising idea: Lindsay reviewed his draft proposal, previously circulated to committee members
via email. It could support Croton100’s activities, taking advantage of its independent financial and
legal position. It would involve Croton’s businesses, not residents or the Village. John Habib (via
email) provided details from the Croton Business Council that were helpful on developing this idea.
That group found (via a walk-through) that the Village had at least 180 businesses with street-facing
identifiable business signs. Joel had previously reviewed its possible application at the Half Moon
Bay condos, but found it would not be viable. Various issues were reviewed which could be
stumbling blocks. Joel had briefly raised the concept with David Hemmerling, Croton100’s treasurer.,
Joel will set up a meeting with him, Joel, and Lindsay to assess that group’s possible interest.
Earth Day: It’s the 50th anniversary of Earth Day. We will propose to the Boy and Girl Scouts that
they take a table to show off their sustainability programs, projects, and merit badge options. Niall
mentioned a Boy Scout community garden project he felt would look good at an Earth Day table or in
a poster presentation. Lindsay, Dave, and Niall will coordinate that option with the Scouts and CAC.
Need for another member: Due to our State’s changing energy landscape, there is a need for a new
member with time and knowledge to chase down various issues. Several possible candidates were
discussed. Joel agreed to discuss the matter with three of them, and Lindsay will take the other.
No other new business was raised.

Our next meeting was set for Sunday, March 29, 2020 at 10:30 AM. Carmen Santos (SW
outreach coordinator) and Dan Welsh (SW director) will attend to update us on SW’s 2020 programs,
and to see what we’re up to.

4

