Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, March 2, 2020 in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 8:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS:
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20192020 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved
with a 5-0 vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$77,076.78
$5,622.75
$3,229.88
$25,162.88
$219.00
-

3. PRESENTATION:
Presentation by Anthony Scarpino, Westchester County District Attorney
on recent initiatives pertaining to hate crimes, school safety and Bail
Reform. To view the entire presentation, you may log onto the following
Website:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=774
Presentation on the proposed Zoning regulations in the “North Riverside
Avenue” neighborhood and “Municipal Place Gateway”.
Mayor Pugh stated that this has been a multi-year process in developing
Local Laws Introductory #9 and #10, some of the goals of the “2017
Comprehensive Plan” were to create new housing options and build a
community that was better able to accommodate an active senior
population as well create opportunities for young workers to move to our
community; in 2018-2019 the Board ran a series of workshops specially

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 2

looking at “North Riverside Avenue” and “Municipal Place”; in 2019
Westchester County began a “Housing Needs Assessment” which
highlighted the needs that were already identified in our “Comprehensive
Plan”. Mayor Pugh stated that as reported in the “Housing Needs
Assessment”, Croton has a vacancy rate of about one and a half percent,
Village rents have risen steadily over the years, consistently above the
rate of inflation with over two hundred households spending over fifty
percent of their household income on rent and even a larger share
spending a third or more on rent. Mayor Pugh stated that the Board
contracted with “BFJ” Planning Consultants to make recommendations to
the Board and in response to public comments, the Board revised the
original draft and we are now considering the adoption of the amended
draft Local Laws.
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that “BFJ” and the “Working Group”
came out with the “Municipal Place Gateway” and “North Riverside”
neighborhood “Zoning Study”; that “Study” was a follow up to the
“Comprehensive Plan” that identified these two areas for further study
and to develop a “Land Use Plan” and potential zoning amendments.
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that the planning process and the
public outreach is all described in the “Plan” followed by the goals of the
“Study” and a summary of the existing conditions and land uses in each of
the areas as well as the existing Zoning. Village Attorney Whitehead
stated that the “Study” was to supplement the “Comprehensive Plan” and
to be adopted as an amendment, from that “Study” came two Local Laws,
one to deal with the “Municipal Place” area (Local Law Introductory #9)
and one to deal with the “North Riverside” neighborhood, (Local Law
Introductory #10).
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that the “Municipal Place Gateway”
area is currently Zoned “C2” (General Commercial) with predominately
shopping centers. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that, consistent with
the “Comprehensive Plan”, the decision was to focus on recommendations
for the three parcels that front “Municipal Place” as well as “South
Riverside”, which forms the “Gateway” as you come off of Route 9 and
head into the Village, these three parcels include “Croton Auto Park”, the
“Commons Shopping Center” and the vacant Village owned parcel
commonly known as the “Katz” parcel. Village Attorney Whitehead stated
that these were identified as being important because they are what is
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 3

seen when someone first comes into the Village and due to their size and
location it was felt that they could support a different kind of development
that would show a better face as you come into the community and to
utilize the parcels in a way that fits today’s market. Village Attorney
Whitehead stated that shopping centers are not being developed today,
the retail world has changed, and commercial uses permitted in this Zone
are not likely to get developed. Village Attorney Whitehead advised that
the “C2” Zone currently permits residential use within a mixed use
building; commercial use on the ground floor (of up to 5,000 square feet)
with residential above with a maximum height of 35 feet within two
stories. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that after comments by the
Planning Board it was determined that the maximum height of 35 feet
would remain, but to allow three stories within the 35 foot height in an
attempt to allow more flexibility in design and use. Village Attorney
Whitehead explained that there was also a decision to eliminate the
restrictions on building size and tenancy; those restrictions included that a
building could be no more than 20,000 square feet and a single tenant
could have no more than 8,000 square feet. Attorney Whitehead stated
that specifically for the “Katz” property, a provision was added to allow for
an all residential use that includes “Town Homes” and attached “Single
Family Homes”. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the “Floor Area
Ratio” (“FAR”) of .8 was reduced down to .5 which will allow less
development as well as a requirement that would provide Park space at
the corner of “Municipal Place” and “Maple”, the original plan provided
for a 50 foot vegetative buffer on the “Katz” parcel along the residential
homes on “Wells Avenue” and based on public comments it was amended
to be a 50 foot vegetative buffer against the existing homes both on
“Wells Avenue” and “Beekman Avenue” as well as guidelines for parking.
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that it was found that a residential
use would generate less traffic than commercial use, and after doing an
analysis of the schools, it was found that there would not be an impact on
the schools. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Board and the
“Working Group” felt that this would be a better way for the property to
be developed as opposed to the current Zoning.
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that the “North Riverside” area review
began by looking at the existing land use patterns and existing uses along
“North Riverside” and “Brook Street”, “North Riverside” is currently
Zoned “C1” and “Brook Street” is a very odd mix of “C2” and “RB”.
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 4

Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the “C1” Zone permits mixed use
(non-residential on the first floor with residential above and the
recommendation was to create two new Zoning Districts in the core
commercial area (about two central blocks); one being a “Riverside
Commercial Zone” and at the end of that stretch the recommendation is
for a new “Transitional Commercial Zone”; the proposal will require a
fifteen foot front-yard setback for any new development and not allow
parking within that front-yard setback, the idea is to have a landscaped
front so that it is more transitional towards the residential uses and would
not have such a commercial look, these areas would also continue to allow
“Commercial Uses” in the “Mixed Use” area but would also allow for all
“Residential” which would put those residences that are currently nonconforming to conforming. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that a
couple of commercial ground floor uses would be grandfathered and
parcels on “Brook Street” would also be re-zoned to “RB2”. Village
Attorney Whitehead stated that the current “FAR” in the “C1” Zone along
“North Riverside” is 2.0 and that is being reduced down to 0.8; the
maximum height remains at 35 feet, but similar to the “Municipal Place”
area it would allow three stories within the 35 foot height. Village
Attorney Whitehead stated that by reducing the “FAR”, even if you allow
the three stories, the footprint of the building would be smaller even
though there may be a third story within the same 35 foot height.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
E-mail from Ian Murtaugh stated that he supports the proposed Zoning
changes.
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –
Ellen Hendricks, Assistant Director of “Inter-Municipal Services” for County
Executive George Latimer read a section of a letter from the “Westchester
County Planning Department” advising that they have reviewed the
Zoning changes under consideration for the “Municipal Gateway Overlay
District” and the “North Riverside Neighborhood” and they have found
them to be consistent with the County Planning Board’s long-range
planning policies.
Kathy Wasik 50 Irving Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
concerned that Local Laws 9 and 10 are going to promote development
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 5

and she is not convinced that a high-density residential development will
be good for Croton and believes that Local Laws 9 and 10 seem counter to
the values that she has heard the Board express over the years. Ms.
Wasik stated that she is concerned that these laws may invite big
corporate developers to put a permanent mark on Croton. Ms. Wasik
stated that the “Katz” property and “North Riverside” area are, as the
“Department of Environmental Conservation” put it, substantially
contiguous to a “critical environmental area” and is concerned that these
laws could endanger those areas.
Bruce Kauderer, 6 Georgia Lane, Croton on Hudson, and member of the
Planning Board and Waterfront Advisory Committee stated that he
believes that the concerns that some of his neighbors are expressing are
not well founded and he expects that these Laws will result in very good
things for Croton. Mr. Kauderer stated that it is important to remember
that the current Zoning for the “Katz” property allows development and
the proposed Local Law 9, which was revised after hearing comments
from the public, was written in large part to increase protection for
neighbors and to result in the type of development that was felt would be
most beneficial to this area and to the Village in general. Mr. Kauderer
stated that this new Law does not increase the thirty-five foot height
permitted by existing Zoning, it offers significantly better protection for
neighbors including a fifty-foot vegetative buffer between adjourning
residences. Mr. Kauderer stated that before any development could
happen, Public Open Space requirements and a Traffic Study would have
to be satisfied before any new development would be allowed. Mr.
Kauderer stated that he believes that the opponents to this law are
discounting the many positives that would come from development,
including the chance to recover the $900,000 the Village spent to settle
litigation and purchase the property and a significant increase in both
Village and School District tax revenues.
Len Simon, Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, and member of the
Zoning Board stated that his comments this evening are personal and not
on behalf of the Zoning Board. Mr. Simon stated that he has spoken in
favor of this in the past but there is still a tremendous amount of work to
be done with respect to the design of the “RFP”. Mr. Simon stated that
the Board had set a high standard for public involvement and there should
be every expectation that this will continue. Mr. Simon stated that at the
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 6

“Croton 100” launch, Mayor Pugh spoke about how these amendments
can lead to a more sustainable community and if we work hard in the
coming months we can have good projects and preservation of beautiful
views; there is great talent in Croton and there is a lot of work ahead and
we will need all hands on deck to get it right.
Andy Finkelstein, stated that he supports the Zoning change initiative, it is
clear that the Village made a huge effort to gather a large amount of
comments throughout the community on the matter, ultimately he
believes the changes will provide the flexibility and land use needed to
drive our local economy forward while providing the space for small
businesses to grow in our community and provide for a diversity of living
needs for our residents.
Carol Shanesy, 47 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
believes that most of the fears about this Zoning come from the idea that
this will open up development that couldn’t otherwise happen, but we
need to think about the implications of not replacing the current Zoning
and put that to the same scrutiny. Ms. Shanesy stated that since the main
issue focuses on the “Katz” property, she pointed out that, with one
exception, the new Zoning is much more restrictive then what currently
exists, it imposes requirements for additional parking spaces, sidewalks,
buffer zones; and while it will allow three stories as opposed to the current
two stories, the height remains the same at 35 feet as well as allowing
more space to be used for residential than commercial which, in her
opinion, is a plus. Ms. Shanesy stated that residential use creates much
less traffic than commercial and if Croton is to remain a place where
longtime residents can downsize and remain with us when they no longer
need a big house, we need options so that they can stay in the Village.
Ms. Shanesy stated that Croton loses about $100,000 in taxes annually on
this property as it sits idle.
Ted Brumleve, 10 Munson Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he was
involved in the process of pulling a lot of the material that led to the two
Local Laws and he is very proud that we had a very robust and open
program of community involvement and is very proud of the outcome.
Mr. Brumleve stated that as these potential development sites begin to
move ahead, he encouraged the Board to keep the notion of these
“Special Permits” intact and to review them robustly. Mr. Brumleve stated
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 7

that the DPW site, the old skateboard site, the “Katz” property, and the
hardware store site are areas that are important because they are the
entry to this Village, and they deserve our keen attention. Mr. Brumleve
thanked the Board and other members of the Committee for such a great
program of pulling it all together and he is very proud of the outcome and
encouraged the Board to vote yes.
Gregory Maher, 44 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that both of
the zones that are proposed for modifications are within one-thousand
feet of his home, and understands that if the Local Laws are approved it
will not cause any new development on its own, those changes will be
considered later by the Planning Board. Mr. Maher encouraged everyone
who may be impacted by any new development to be very vigilant and
continue to provide their input. Mr. Maher commended the Board for the
recent changes that were incorporated into the laws that include
reducing the “FAR” to .5 and extending the buffer zone for the homes
along Beekman Avenue. Mr. Maher stated that introducing housing as a
component of a mixed-use seems really smart and a way for restoration of
some of these highly visible parcels. Mr. Maher stated that Croton schools
are not overcrowded by any reasonable measure and while there may be
a bit more traffic if additional development was to happen he does not
believe it will ruin the essential character of Croton and will not result in
“high-rise” apartments on “North Riverside Avenue” or turn the Village
into a mini-Central Avenue which the flyer that he received talked about.
Mr. Maher stated that he is in favor of the proposals because he believes
they have the potential to bring mixed-use revitalization, some new tax
revenue and new vibrancy of housing options for individuals and families
earning a range of incomes and commended the Board for the process, for
listening and making those changes that were recommended by the
community.
Marci Cohen, 15 Hillside Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she does
not believe the Board has listened to what the community has said. Ms.
Cohen stated that a “Letter of Protest” was submitted in the beginning of
February, under New York State Law whenever a change is being made to
a Village Code as substantial as this, the public has the right to require
that a super-majority of the Board vote in favor of it as opposed to a
simple majority. Ms. Cohen stated that she was disappointed when they
had asked the Village for assistance with this process, they were told that
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 8

it was not appropriate for the Village to assist them. Ms. Cohen stated
that she is concerned that these proposals may encourage more
development, and the people living in those areas do not want it.
Kathryn Riter, 7 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that the decision
to allow apartments on “North Riverside” will totally obliterate her view;
she purchased her home because of the view and while it may seem
selfish to the Board it is not selfish to her. Ms. Riter stated that there will
be more cars on the road and more cars parking at the train station and
will add more congestion and does not believe we will get any more stores
in Croton from this change.
Lisa Morsberger, 3 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she had
submitted a Petition with over five hundred signatures asking the Board to
vote no on the proposals. Ms. Morsberger reminded the Board that sixtyeight percent of the people who responded to the survey responded no to
additional housing in the “Gateway” area and last week almost one
hundred percent of the homeowners adjacent to the “Municipal Gateway”
area signed a “Letter of Protest” which was submitted to the Village. Ms.
Morsberger stated that she understands that the amended laws do protect
us by giving us a fifty foot buffer zone but she would have preferred to see
a one-hundred foot buffer that would protect more trees and wildlife and
prevent future erosion on the “Katz” property. Ms. Morsberger stated that
she would support transit oriented housing if this was closer to the train
station; and she would also support development on the “Katz” property if
the development was to be one-hundred percent affordable. Ms. “Katz”
stated that each parcel should be distinctly considered so that we can see
the scope of the potential development in areas such as the “Croton
Commons” and the “Croton Auto Park”. Ms. Morsberger stated that she is
also concerned with health issues once construction does begin due to the
toxic nature of the formally dumped materials and asked the Board to
take into consideration property values.
Robert Luntz, 4 Hugh Street, Croton on Hudson and Chair of the Planning
Board, stated that he appreciates the efforts that went into explaining
some of the mis-information that has been going around the Village. Mr.
Luntz stated that the Planning Board went through a rather exhaustive
review and made recommendations and those recommendations were
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 9

incorporated into the proposed Laws, a lot of the changes are relative to
what could be done, and they are relatively minor tweaks.
David Bogdam, 50 Irving Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that he moved
to Croton because it is a small town and he does not see what problems
the new Zoning and development would fix nor does he see any special
benefit they might bring. Mr. Bogdam stated that documents on the
Village’s Website indicate that a new development on the “Katz” property
would bring an additional $62,000 in annual tax revenue to the Village,
that is equivalent to a tax reduction to Village residents of $1.47 for every
$1,000 of assessed valuation, and asked if this is the tax revenue that
Croton cannot be without. Mr. Bogdam added that this number does not
reflect any of the expenses new residents would create such as the cost of
sending a child to Croton schools. Mr. Bogdam stated that developing
under-developed land is one of the most anti-environmental actions a
community can take even though the plan includes a fifty-foot vegetative
buffer which is very vague and could be interpreted as anything. Mr.
Bogdam stated that he understands that the “Katz” property could be sold
to a developer under its current zoning, but it has not been sold and the
new zoning is clearly designed to make the “Katz’ property and “North
Riverside” area more attractive to developers. Mr. Bogdam stated that
68% of residents who responded to the survey were against this.
Steven Krisky, 49 Sunset Drive, Croton on Hudson, and member of the
Planning Board, stated that there are a lot of pros and cons but believes
that the good it will do for the Village far outweighs the downside of not
moving ahead to improve our Village and believes that change is good in
this case.
Erik Ferguson, 2 Alexander Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that during his
lifetime he as seen three major developments in Croton; but none of those
places brought relief in property taxes; Croton taxes have risen higher
than the rate of wages and regardless of whether these laws pass he
would implore the Board to require more low income and affordable
housing for the residents. Mr. Ferguson stated that he supports
apartments above stores but would only support it if the units are low and
moderate income.

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 10

Michael Ribosh, 13 Wood Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that one of his
concerns is the impact to the schools and how does the Village know how
many residents would move in and possibly impact the schools.
Ian Bonnell, 7 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, asked if “Municipal Place”
and “North Riverside” should have been reviewed separately. Mr. Bonnell
asked if the “FAR” is only for occupied spaces and are areas like
equipment rooms not included. Mr. Bonnell stated that there is no parking
on Bank Street, and he is concerned that there aren’t any bike lanes in
that area as well. Mr. Bonnell also addressed difficulty turning out of Bank
Street and suggested removing a parking space for better site clearance.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the “FAR” is not just occupied
spaces, but the entire floor area.
6. RESOLUTIONS Resolution #27 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees is considering adoption of the Municipal
Place and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning Study as an Amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan, together with Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 (revised)
and Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2019 (revised), collectively the Proposed
Action, making certain revisions to its Zoning Law and Map in the area of North
Riverside and revisions to the Municipal Place Gateway; and
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes for the Proposed Action, determined the Proposed
Action to be a Type 1 Action, and issued and circulated the Full EAF Part 1 and
Addendum, and
WHEREAS, the Proposed Action is comprised of the amendment of a land use plan
and adoption of Local Laws and not any proposed development, and therefore
sections D and E of the Full EAF Part 1 describing project related details were not
required to be filled in; and

10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 11

WHEREAS, the Proposed Action is an adoption of a plan amendment and zoning
changes with no physical changes or projects specifically proposed, and SEQRA
therefore requires the Lead Agency to consider the relative impacts based on the
proposed changes as compared to the existing zoning, and to focus its analysis on
the impacts of the changes and not on potential impacts of potential future
development; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board as Lead Agency has reviewed the entire record,
including the EAF Part 1 and Addendum, the Municipal Place and North Riverside
Neighborhood Zoning Study as an Amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, together
with Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 (revised) and Local Law Introductory No.
10 of 2019 (revised) focusing on the changes from existing zoning, as well as
comments received from the Planning Board and the public comment, and
additional analyses prepared by BFJ, its planning consultant; and
WHEREAS, at its meeting on February 18, 2020 the Village Board reviewed the EAF
Part 2 and verbally answered the questions set forth therein based upon the entire
record, and with specific reference to information in Part 1 as identified in the Part 2
form, and determined that no potential impacts were identified as moderate to
large, and therefore no additional analysis was required in a Part 3, and directed the
preparation of the Part 2 and Part 3 forms and a negative declaration under SEQRA
for adoption; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with
respect to its SEQRA determination of significance as set forth at the February 18,
2020 meeting in written form,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
Based upon the entire record on the Proposed Action and the above, the Village
Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of
Significance attached hereto; and adopts a Negative Declaration under SEQRA in
connection with this action.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that a comment was made that this is listed in
the “EAF” as being adjacent to a “critical environmental area”, the “critical
environmental area” is actually the “Hudson River” and much of the Village is
considered to be adjacent to a “critical environmental area”; the law requires that
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 12

when an actual project is proposed the “Lead Agency”, in reviewing the project
under “SEQRA”, has to determine that the project will specifically not have an
impact on the characteristics identified as being in a “critical environmental area”
and it would still be protected.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this is simply a written compellation of our page by page
review of the “EAF”.
Resolution #28 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees is considering adoption of the Municipal
Place and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning Study as an Amendment to the
Comprehensive Plan, together with Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 (revised)
and Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2019 (revised), collectively the Proposed
Action making certain revisions to its Zoning Law and Map in the area of North
Riverside and revisions to the Municipal Place Gateway; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the Proposed Action the Village Board is required to
make a determination of consistency with the LWRP policy standards and
conditions; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has issued an Environmental Assessment Form Parts 1,
2 and 3 thereto together with a Coastal Assessment Form in connection with the
proposed action; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has duly referred this matter to the Village Waterfront
Advisory Committee which has made and provided in writing to the Village Board a
recommendation of consistency with the LWRP policy standards and conditions; and
WHEREAS, after due deliberation, the Village Board has issued a Negative
Declaration in connection with the proposed action; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has reviewed each of the 44 policies and sub-policies
thereunder set forth in the LWRP and the explanation of each policy as set forth in
the LWRP, and

12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 13

WHEREAS, at its meeting on February 18, 2020 the Village Board verbally made its
findings with respect to each of the policies and sub-policies and adopted a
resolution that, based upon its review of the LWRP, the EAF, the Coastal Assessment
Form, and the Waterfront Advisory Committee’s recommendations, and the review
and discussion undertaken by the Board, the proposed action complies with the
policy standards and conditions and is consistent with the policies of the LWRP; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with
respect to its determination of consistency as set forth at the February 18, 2020
meeting in written form,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board makes the following findings regarding the applicability of the
LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies and
conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 1 - Restore, Revitalize, and Redevelop Deteriorated and Underutilized
Waterfront Areas for Commercial, Industrial, Cultural, Recreational and other
Compatible Uses.
This Policy was determined to be applicable only with respect to Policy 1A discussed
below.
Policy 1A - Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and
amended where necessary to ensure development within the community is
consistent with adopted goals and policies.
The Village Board found that this policy was applicable to the proposed action in
that it is a zoning modification which should be reviewed pursuant to this policy.
The Board found the action is consistent with this policy as the proposed zoning
amendment will result in development which is consistent with the adopted goals
and policies of the Village. The intent of the amendment is to encourage the
restoration, revitalization and redevelopment of properties in this area for
commercial and residential uses.
Policy 5 - Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and
facilities essential to such development are adequate, except when such
development has special functional requirements or other characteristics which
necessitate its location in other coastal areas.
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 14

The Village Board found that this policy is applicable and that the proposed action is
consistent and complies with this policy as it encourages development in the North
Riverside and Municipal Place Gateway areas where public services and facilities are
adequate as has been reviewed and discussed as part of the SEQRA process.
Policy 5A - When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within
the current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity
to areas where distribution lines currently exist.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable and that the proposed action is
consistent and complies with this policy as it directs development within the North
Riverside and Municipal Gateway areas within the service area of existing water and
sewer facilities.
Policy 5C - Limit proposed development within those portions of the coastal zone
boundary area, where traffic impacts such as site distance and carrying capacity of
the roadways are restricted, particularly along Route 9A, Albany Post Road and
Route 129.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable and that the proposed action
will comply with and be consistent with the proposed policy. The law as proposed
gives the Village Board the authority to require applicants to provide for
professional parking and traffic impact studies. The proposed law also allows the
Village Board, as part of its special permit determination, the authority to address
additional parking requirements.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above
were reviewed and found to not be applicable; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, as follows:
Based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its determination that
the Proposed Action, adoption of the Municipal Place and North Riverside
Neighborhood Zoning Study as an Amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, together
with Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 (revised) and Local Law Introductory No.
10 of 2019 (revised) making certain revisions to its Zoning Law and Map in the area
of North Riverside and revisions to the Municipal Place Gateway complies with the
policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP.
DISCUSSION:
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 15

Trustee Gallelli stated that these are the issues that the Board discussed during the
February 18, 2020 meeting and indicates the Board’s answers.
Resolution #29 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
RESOLUTION FOR ADOPTION OF THE MUNICIPAL PLACE GATEWAY AND NORTH
RIVERSIDE NEIGHBORSIDE NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY AS AN AMENDMENT TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
WHEREAS, in 2018 the Village Board formed a working group to develop a land use
plan and potential zoning amendments for the adjacent commercial areas of North
Riverside neighborhood and the Municipal Place Gateway to examine ways to
support appropriate residential development and commercial opportunities to
promote long term stability; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board solicited proposals from planning firms to assist the
working group in undertaking its work and on November 5, 2018 the Village Board
retained BFJ Planning to provide such services, including attending working group
meetings, conducting public workshops, and preparing a final report with the
recommendations of the working group; and
WHEREAS, the final Municipal Place Gateway and North Riverside Neighborhood
Zoning Study (the “Study”) was issued by BFJ Planning in October 2019 after review
by the Village Board, which study was proposed as an amendment to the 2017
Comprehensive Plan, and
WHEREAS, the Village Board thereafter directed the preparation of Local Laws
incorporating the recommendations of the Study, together with a full EAF Part 1with
Addendum and a Coastal Assessment Form, both for the Proposed Action, including
adoption of the Municipal Place and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning Study as
an Amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, together with Local Law Introductory
No. 9 of 2019 and Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2019; and
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019 the Village Board declared itself to be Lead Agency
under SEQRA, and circulated the proposed Local Law, Full EAF, CAF and Study to
various interested agencies including the Village Planning Board, the Westchester
County Planning Board and the Village Waterfront Advisory Committee; and
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 16

WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing on November 6, 2019 which was
continued to November 18, 2019 and closed; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board discussed comments received at the public hearing as
well as comments received from the Planning Board at subsequent work sessions
and requested that BFJ Planning provide further information and review regarding
some of the comments and issues raised; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board carefully considered the comments from the public and
the Planning Board and the additional information provided by BFJ Planning and
directed certain revisions be made to the proposed local laws; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing on the amended local laws on
February 3, 2020; and
WHEREAS, after discussion at its February 18, 2020 meeting the Village Board has
adopted a Negative Declaration in connection with the Proposed Action and
determined the Proposed Action is consistent with the policies and conditions set
forth in the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has considered all comments received both verbally
and in writing as part of the public hearing and throughout this process, together
with all other documents and correspondence which are a part of the record on this
matter.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
The Village Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby adopts the Municipal
Place Gateway and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning Study as an amendment
to the Comprehensive Plan adopted by the Village Board dated July 10, 2017.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that for a long time she has been a strong advocate of
“Comprehensive Plans” and a participant in the development of both the 2003
“Comprehensive Plan” and then the 2017 update to the “Comprehensive Plan”.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this “Zoning Study” is very valuable and a
comprehensive update to the goals that were stated in both the 2003 and 2017
“Comprehensive Plans”, specifically with regard to our commercially zoned areas in
the Village.
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 17

Resolution #30 of 2020
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that with respect to Local Law Introductory #9 a
“Protest Petition” was received by the Village late Thursday, it did not include any
summary of acreage or computations to prove that the requirements were met, she
and the Village Engineer have been reviewing it, and we still need to check some of
the Deeds and confirm some acreages, it is somewhat of a complicated
computation because it is all three lots that are being considered but the
information that was provided was fairly sparse. Village Attorney Whitehead stated
that the Board can go ahead and vote, if it carries by less than a “Super-Majority”,
we will hold onto to the Law and complete our review to determine if in fact the
vote is effective.
Trustee Horowitz asked why are we in such a hurry to vote, why can’t we take our
time to see if the “Petition” is successful and if this is a successful “Protest”, some
on the Board may feel differently about voting because it means that twenty
percent (20%) of the impacted residents are opposed. Trustee Horowitz also asked
why the Village didn’t share what was required on the “Petition”.
Trustee Habib stated that it sounds like a very reasonable argument, but it is not
our place to provide legal counsel to individuals and companies that we do not
represent us, the attorneys who have been retained by these individuals have an
obligation under New York State Bar Association Rules, and if they are not qualified
to represent their clients, they should stand down. Trustee Habib stated that
instead of having a debate on whether to have the vote, let’s take the vote and
freeze the process until we find out if the vote is effective which is the most
effective use of the taxpayer’s dollars.
Mayor Pugh stated that it doesn’t make sense not to vote, more Petitions could be
filed and then we will need additional time reviewing them and we can go through
this every week and it is not the best use of everyone’s time. Mayor Pugh stated
that, in terms of a rush, this process has been in place for over a year, we’ve had
three public hearings, two public workshops and is the outgrowth of a
“Comprehensive Plan” that was adopted.
Village Attorney Whitehead stressed that we are not ignoring the “Petition”, if they
are effective and there isn’t a “Super-Majority” vote, then the Law does not pass.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Village is not obligated to assist the
public in protesting against a municipality.
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 18

Mayor Pugh stated that with respect to “Municipal Place”, and the “Katz” property,
it is very clear that Local Law introductory #9 is superior to the existing Code and
the “RFP” process will be separate and will determine a lot more details. Mayor
Pugh stated that if the Local Law is adopted, he would support placing a cap in the
“RFP” of no more than thirty-three units. Mayor Pugh stated that he understands
that change is uncomfortable, but we must understand that we have a lack of
affordable housing units which has led to huge economic displacement in our
community.
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 4-1, with Trustee Horowitz voting Nay.
RESOLUTION FOR ADOPTION OF LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 9 OF THE YEAR
2019 (revised) TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON,
CHAPTER 230 ZONING TO MODIFY CERTAIN PROVISIONS FOR THE MUNICIPAL PLACE
GATEWAY OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT
WHEREAS, in 2018 the Village Board formed a working group to develop a land use
plan and potential zoning amendments for the adjacent commercial areas of North
Riverside neighborhood and the Municipal Place Gateway to examine ways to
support appropriate residential development and commercial opportunities to
promote long term stability; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board solicited proposals from planning firms to assist the
working group in undertaking its work and on November 5, 2018 the Village Board
retained BFJ Planning to provide such services, including attending working group
meetings, conducting public workshops, and preparing a final report with the
recommendations of the working group; and
WHEREAS, the final Municipal Place Gateway and North Riverside Neighborhood
Zoning Study (the “Study”) was issued by BFJ Planning in October 2019 after review
by the Village Board, which study was proposed as an amendment to the 2017
Comprehensive Plan, and
WHEREAS, the Study recommended amendments to the existing C-2 and Municipal
Place Gateway Overlay District zoning for 3 properties comprised of the Village
owned “Katz” property at 41-51 Maple Street (“Katz Property”), the Croton
Commons shopping center at 171-187 Maple Street (“Croton Commons”), and the
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 19

Croton Auto Park property at 1 Municipal Place (“Croton Auto Park”) as three
important properties in the area with frontage along Municipal Place; and
WHEREAS, the amendments recommended for all three properties include retaining
the existing maximum height of 35 feet but to allow three stories, and also to
eliminate the restrictions on building size and tenancy, and
WHEREAS, for the Katz Property the Study also recommended modifying the
provision for mixed use buildings to eliminate the limit on ground floor retail and to
allow for an all residential building or townhomes, all with a maximum FAR of 0.8,
provided park space is provided at the corner of Municipal Place and Maple Street, a
50’ vegetated buffer is provided to residential properties on Wells Avenue, and
certain design guidelines are adhered to; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board thereafter directed the preparation of Local Laws
incorporating the recommendations of the Study, together with a full EAF Part 1
with Addendum and a Coastal Assessment Form, both for the Proposed Action,
including adoption of the Municipal Place and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning
Study as an Amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, together with Local Law
Introductory No. 9 of 2019 and Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2019; and
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019 the Village Board declared itself to be Lead Agency
under SEQRA, and circulated the proposed Local Law, Full EAF, CAF and Study to
various interested agencies including the Village Planning Board, the Westchester
County Planning Board and the Village Waterfront Advisory Committee; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing on November 6, 2019 which was
continued to November 18, 2019 and closed; and
WEHREAS, on November 1, 2019 the Village Board received a favorable letter from
the Westchester County Planning Board and on November 20, 2019 received a
memo from the Planning Board with comments; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board discussed comments received at the public hearing as
well as comments received from the Planning Board at subsequent work sessions
and requested that BFJ Planning provide further information and review regarding
some of the comments and issues raised; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board carefully considered the comments from the public and
the Planning Board and the additional information provided by BFJ Planning and
directed revisions be made to Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2019 to require the
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 20

vegetated buffer for the Katz Property to extend to the area adjacent to the
residential properties on Beekman Avenue and to reduce the maximum FAR for
residential and mixed occupancy buildings on the Katz Property to 0.5 and to
modify the language relating to the public park area to recognize the potential for
other public benefits, as well as incorporating the changes into other portions of the
Code as highlighted by the Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9
of the Year 2019 (revised) on February 3, 2020; and
WHEREAS, after discussion at its February 18, 2020 meeting the Village Board has
adopted a Negative Declaration in connection with the Proposed Action and
determined the Proposed Action is consistent with the policies and conditions set
forth in the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has adopted the Study as an amendment to the
Village’s Comprehensive Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has considered all comments received both verbally
and in writing as part of the public hearing and throughout this process, together
with all other documents and correspondence which are a part of the record on this
matter,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
The Village Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby Adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 9 of The Year 2019 (revised) to Amend the Code of the Village of
Croton-On-Hudson, Chapter 230 Zoning to Modify Certain Provisions for the
Municipal Place Gateway Overlay Zoning District.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Horowitz asked where the thirty-three apartment cap came from?
Mayor Pugh stated that this is something he would support in an “RFP”.
Trustee Simmons stated that he had concerns about the size of the development on
the “Katz” property with respect to the number of apartments and asked the Mayor
if he would be willing to consider capping it so that it is lower than what would be
currently available now, right now you could build forty to fifty apartments and he

20

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 21

felt it was too much.
everyone beforehand.

Trustee Simmons apologized for not bringing this up to

Trustee Horowitz asked if this would be a guarantee, is it legally binding?
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that it would not be legally binding until the
Board prepares the “RFP” it was just a discussion where the Mayor indicated that
this was something, he would be comfortable putting in the “RFP” .
Trustee Horowitz asked what about the people who would be impacted by this,
would they also be involved in the “RFP” or would it just be the Trustees; it seems
that there are a lot of maybes and not what people can count on.
Mayor Pugh stated that, as he has said before, he would be in favor of developing a
citizens advisory group similar to what we developed for “Gouveia”.
Trustee Horowitz stated that this is one of the most serious issues facing the Village
in years; the “North Riverside Gateway” and the “Municipal Place Gateway” final
Zoning Study Report was prepared by the “BFJ” Planning Consulting Firm and
published in September of 2019, the important role of the community was
repeatedly brought up throughout the final report; community outreach was a
critical component of the “Plan” to insure that the vision of any potential
development meets local needs; a key objective for the “Zoning Study” is to have a
broad and meaningful public engagement process providing residents the
opportunity to voice their opinions, and community outreach serves is an essential
piece of the planning process as it insures the “Plan” addresses and incorporates
local needs within future developments, the “Zoning Study” has incorporated a
variety of public outreach methods to insure that recommendations reflect the ideas
and concerns of Village residents, both public outreach events were to assist the
Village in guiding future development, the intent of the efforts were for the
community members to share their opinions for the two commercial areas, an
electronic survey resulted in 1,437 responses which was considered to be a
substantial response, the purpose of the survey was to gather community input on
what the key issues and priorities were to consider incorporating as part of the
“Zoning Study”; the purpose of the Zoning Study was to examine where
opportunities exist in these commercial areas to support appropriate growth and to
test those ideas with the community, in reference to the “Katz” property, one of the
objectives for this “Zoning Study” was to take a closer look at site specific
constraints, market conditions and determine the best use of the site in
collaboration with the community, the proposed “Zoning Map” would allow
21

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 22

appropriately sized development at a scale that is acceptable to the community and
does not unduly impact the surrounding residents. Trustee Horowitz stated that if
this is not crystal clear in terms of community participation and involvement in this
process, she does not know what is and she feels as though, since the beginning of
the discussions regarding the re-zoning of the two “Gateway” areas, public
opposition has been widespread, loud, continuous and ongoing from the public
meetings at the firehouse; the Village created “Survey” and at the three public
hearings, citizens have been verbalizing their questions and deep concerns and we
are still getting new emails daily and still people’s concerns are not being taken
seriously. Trustee Horowitz read the following remarks taken from the Final Report:
both the 2017 and 2003 “Comprehensive Plans” stressed the need for new housing
options and recommended that the Village continue to identify opportunities for
housing that is more reasonably priced, the “Comprehensive Plan’s”
recommendations for housing in the Village focuses primarily maintaining the scale
and character of the Village and to explore affordable housing opportunities,
although there is a great deal of talk about increasing housing in the two “Gateway”
areas, she does not see any discussion where reasonable priced or affordable
housing opportunities are recommended, this is a goal but it is not addressed
anywhere. Trustee Horowitz said that just stating the goal does not bring us closer
to the reality, and just building more units does not necessarily guarantee the
production of reasonably priced or lower income options for our aging Croton
residents, young couples and Village personnel. Trustee Horowitz stated that we
have seen apartments go up in our Village that are not reasonably priced, and they
are market value apartments and there is no reason why these will be any different
because we have not addressed that.
Trustee Habib stated that if anyone thinks that someone on this Board is
intentionally disrespecting their views or the ability to give input into this process,
he respectfully will tell anyone they are wrong, every Board member gives a darn
about the residents in our community and he will oppose any “RFP” that brings any
kind of “Toll Brothers” type of development anywhere near these sensitive areas.
Trustee Habib said that he respectfully requests that anyone who ever says no to
the future of this Village, to please come up with an alternative plan because we
need housing of a sensible nature and he will steadfastly oppose anything in the
“RFP” that does not protect that area, we will have very significant constructive,
respectful dialogue taking the data of these visionary residents who have good
points, we want to protect Croton, but we want to move it forward and while he is
not an expert on low and medium income housing he knows someone in the
community who is and is also supporting this as well. Trustee Habib stated that he
22

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 23

has heard his colleagues on the Board, residents in the community as well as his
friends and he is not disrespecting anyone’s views about no change to the Zoning,
he is saying no change to the Zoning that could destroy Croton and hurt people and
he will work as hard as he can to make that pledge come true.
Trustee Gallelli stated that Local Law Introductory #9 is an improvement to the
existing Zoning in this area, and as she has said before, it provides for the
possibility of more greenspace preservation, a smaller building footprint, and public
amenities than what the current Zoning does. Trustee Gallelli stated that some of
the changes made to the original proposal were a result of public input which has
actually improved the proposed Zoning over the initial proposal. Trustee Gallelli
stated that if and when we get to an “RFP”, these changes, that are incorporated in
Local Law Introductory #9, will make the “RFP” a better document.
Trustee Simmons stated that this Village has a big problem that has bothered many
of us for years, we are a hodgepodge of disconnected business zones, and even
though our Village is small, they are not linked and to do so is through a concept
called “Walkable Communities”, the idea behind these communities is that we just
don’t make it easier to walk throughout Village, but we make it so you want to walk,
you want to get out of your car, you want to stroll or jog from one end of Village to
the next, you want to visit parks and shops, you want to stop and greet a fellow
walker and you do that through traffic calming measures, adding and fixing
sidewalks, making the walk more attractive and interesting and by building housing
near the center of the Village so that people are not spewing pollution as they drive
into our community. Trustee Simmons stated that the “Katz” property fits all the
criteria because it is ideally situated between two malls and a mini-mall with a
market, a drugstore, restaurants and a Post Office and right near the “Upper
Village”. Trustee Simmons stated that our Village is a chopped up mess, and this is
the beginning of knitting it back together. Trustee Simmons advised that the
Croton School System has lost one-hundred students over the past ten years and
expects to lose another one-hundred within the next decade. Trustee Simmons
stated that it is also important to note that the new building in the “Harmon” area
where “Baked by Susan” has moved to, has rented all of its eight studios and one
bedroom apartments on the second and third floors. Trustee Simmons stated that
ten years ago opposition to “Harmon” rezoning was strident, like it is today with the
chief objection that the schools would be overrun and that there would be
corporatization, the fact that those apartments rented out so quickly made it clear
to him that there is a need for housing, the vacancy rate is very low and college
grads would like to return to the area, young couples want to move into Croton and
23

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 24

eventually move into a house and seniors would like to be able to downsize; all of
these things will make our community more vibrant and help our local businesses
without burdening our schools and infrastructure.
Mayor Pugh stated that as a matter of law, any housing development of ten units or
more is subject to our “Fair and Affordable Housing” Ordinance which was adopted
by this Board in 2018, ten percent of the units must be affordable as defined as
affordable for people earning sixty-percent of the areas medium income for rental
units and eighty-percent of the areas medium income for ownership units. Mayor
Pugh stated that through the “RFP” process we can require more and would prefer
to see more. Mayor Pugh stated that at past meetings people have been dismissive
of the potential number of affordable units we could add, but if we could add
something even as small as three to five additional affordable units to this
community it would be the first affordable housing we would have added in a
decade and it would be a twenty-percent increase in the total affordable stock in
Croton.
Resolution #31 of 2020
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Board received additional signatures on
the “Petition” for the “North Riverside” Local Law Introductory #10 this morning, we
are in the process of reviewing the deeds and acreages but the Board can vote and
if it is carried by less than a “super-majority” we can complete the review to
determine if the vote is effective.
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 4-1, with Trustee Horowitz voting Nay.
RESOLUTION FOR ADOPTION OF LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 10 OF THE YEAR
2019 (revised) TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON,
CHAPTER 230 ZONING TO MODIFY CERTAIN PROVISIONS FOR THE NORTH
RIVERSIDE AREA OF THE VILLAGE
WHEREAS, in 2018 the Village Board formed a working group to develop a land use
plan and potential zoning amendments for the adjacent commercial areas of North
Riverside neighborhood and the Municipal Place Gateway to examine ways to
support appropriate residential development and commercial opportunities to
promote long term stability; and
24

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 25

WHEREAS, the Village Board solicited proposals from planning firms to assist the
working group in undertaking its work and on November 5, 2018 the Village Board
retained BFJ Planning to provide such services, including attending working group
meetings, conducting public workshops, and preparing a final report with the
recommendations of the working group; and
WHEREAS, the final Municipal Place Gateway and North Riverside Neighborhood
Zoning Study (the “Study”) was issued by BFJ Planning in October; 2019 after
review by the Village Board, which study was proposed as an amendment to the
2017 Comprehensive Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Study recommended reinforcing the existing character of the area by
the creation of two new zoning districts for the areas identified as the core
commercial area along North Riverside Avenue between Farrington Road and Brook
Street and the transitional areas along North Riverside Avenue north of High Street
and south of Brook Street and further recommended rezoning of existing residential
properties in commercial zones to RB residential zoning; and
WHEREAS, the amendments recommended that each of the new zones include
retaining the existing maximum height of 35 feet but to allow three stories within
the 35 feet, and to significantly reduce the maximum FAR in these zones from the
existing 2.0 to 0.8, and in the transitional area a front yard setback of 15 feet was
recommended; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board thereafter directed the preparation of Local Laws
incorporating the recommendations of the Study, together with a full EAF Part 1
with Addendum and a Coastal Assessment Form, both for the Proposed Action,
including adoption of the Municipal Place and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning
Study as an Amendment to the Comprehensive Plan, together with Local Law
Introductory No. 9 of 2019 and Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2019; and
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019 the Village Board declared itself to be Lead Agency
under SEQRA, and circulated the proposed Local Law, Full EAF, CAF and Study to
various interested agencies including the Village Planning Board, the Westchester
County Planning Board and the Village Waterfront Advisory Committee; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing on November 6, 2019 which was
continued to November 18, 2019 and closed; and

25

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 26

WEHREAS, on November 1, 2019 the Village Board received a favorable letter from
the Westchester County Planning Board and on November 20, 2019 received a
memo from the Planning Board with comments; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board discussed comments received at the public hearing as
well as comments received from the Planning Board at subsequent work sessions
and requested that BFJ Planning provide further information and review regarding
some of the comments and issues raised, including a review of viewshed studies of
the impact of a 35 foot building, even though 35 feet is already permitted and not a
change from current zoning; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board carefully considered the comments from the public and
the Planning Board and the additional information provided by BFJ Planning and
directed revisions be made to Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2019 to incorporate
the new zoning districts into other portions of the Code as highlighted by the
Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 10
of the Year 2019 (revised) on February 3, 2020; and
WHEREAS, after discussion at its February 18, 2020 meeting the Village Board has
adopted a Negative Declaration in connection with the Proposed Action and
determined the Proposed Action is consistent with the policies and conditions set
forth in the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has adopted the Study as an amendment to the
Village’s Comprehensive Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has considered all comments received both verbally
and in writing as part of the public hearing and throughout this process, together
with all other documents and correspondence which are a part of the record on this
matter,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
The Village Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby Adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 10 of The Year 2019 (revised) to Amend the Code of the Village Of
Croton-On-Hudson, Chapter 230 Zoning to Modify Certain Provisions for the North
Riverside Area of the Village.
DISCUSSION:
26

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 27

Mayor Pugh stated that people have voiced concerns about impacts on views and
on the neighborhood, but as the Village Attorney pointed out, this Law is protective
of the neighborhood, people need to look very carefully at the existing Code, many
parcels are Zoned “C1” and everyone should understand carefully what that would
include such as a “FAR” (Floor Area Ratio) of 2.0, which is two-hundred percent of
the area of the parcel, this Local Law shrinks it down to .8. Mayor Pugh stated that
some of the opponents of the Law say that market demand right now will not build
at 2.0, but those people are betting their neighborhood on that and are those
individuals going to be accountable to their neighbors if something like that were
ever to be developed in the neighborhood, this is the Board being proactive and
attempting to address that issue. Mayor Pugh stated that in terms of the view, as
pointed out by our Village Attorney, the three stories does not change the overall
allowable height, the height maximum remains at thirty-five feet and combined with
the shrinkage in the “FAR” this actually provides greater protection for views
because a .8 three story building is going to take up less than twenty percent of the
coverage and can be positioned in such a way as to minimize any possible impact
on the views. Mayor Pugh stated that this is something that the Planning Board has
the authority to enforce and demand consistent with reasonable use of the property
as stated in Chapter 230 of the Village Code under “Planning Board Review”. Mayor
Pugh stated that any proposal would be a “Special Permit” and would require a
notice requirement and not only a review by the Planning Board but also ultimately
reviewed by the Board of Trustees in a public meeting, there are many checks and
balances, and a process that is more accountable to the public and more responsive
to public needs then what exists on the books today. Mayor Pugh stated that he
has tried to respond to every contact he has had on this topic, and at the end of the
day he understands that we can’t all agree, but he believes we can sometimes have
to agree to disagree and thanked the public that participated in this process.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she believes that this is an improvement over the
existing Zoning, the reality of what exists in this area is that we have a lot of nonconforming uses; residences in “C1” and commercial uses in residential and this
Local Law adjusts and improves on that and reduces the density as well as
providing for parking solutions. Trustee Gallelli stated that she believes this is an
overall improvement to the current situation and that the Village and the owners of
the properties will benefit who are currently in non-conforming uses now.
Trustee Habib thanked the residents for their input and guaranteed that the Board
will be watching any proposals very carefully.
27

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 28

Trustee Horowitz stated that there are many problems with going to three stories,
such as overcrowding, visual impairments, excess traffic, and parking. Trustee
Horowitz stated that we should encourage developers to make specific proposals
which can then be reviewed rather than give them a blanket green light to three
stories in the entire re-zoned area, the housing stock, abandoned commercial space
and empty lots are all crying out for projects, but we should see the specifics rather
than give blanket approval for three story buildings throughout the zone.
Mayor Pugh stated that the new Local Laws have requirements for off-street parking
and is something that we would insist on for new developments.

Resolution #32 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, on June 18, 2019, the welcome sign located along Route 129 was
damaged; and
WHEREAS, the total cost to replace the sign is $4,200; and
WHEREAS, the Village has received a reimbursement check from its insurance
carrier in the amount of $4,200,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2019-2020 budget in the amount of $4,200:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A1000.2680-Insurance Recoveries

$4,200

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A8510.4200-Beautification - Supplies

$4,200

Resolution #33 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
28

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 29

WHEREAS, Cablevision of Wappingers Falls, Inc., has entered into a franchise
agreement with the Village to provide cable services to residents; and
WHEREAS, as part of this franchise agreement, Cablevision is obligated to provide a
grant in the amount of $5,000 for public access television; and
WHEREAS, the Village has received a check from Cablevision in the amount of
$5,000,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2019-2020 budget in the amount of $5,000:
CAPITAL REVENUE
Increase
H1000.2770 – Unclassified (PEG Capital Grant)

$5,000

CAPITAL EXPENSE
Increase
H6410.2000.20376 – Equipment Upgrade

$5,000

Resolution #34 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMOBS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees recently agreed to lower the speed limits
along Benedict Boulevard and Oneida Avenue to 25 MPH; and
WHEREAS, new speed limit signs will need to be erected along these roadways to
inform drivers of the lower limit; and
WHEREAS, the Village has received a quote for these signs from Glenco Supply of
Oakhurst, New Jersey, in the amount of $1,370; and
WHEREAS, funding for this expense was not included in the 2019-2020 General
Fund Budget,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $1,370 from Contingency Account #A1990.4000 to the
following account:
A3310.4200 – Traffic Control – Supplies:
29

$1,370

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 30

Resolution #35 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, replacement police electric hybrid vehicles were included in the 20182019 and 2019-2020 Capital Plans: and
WHEREAS, due to increased costs associated with the purchase of these vehicles,
additional funding is necessary to install needed equipment such as lightbars and
the car cage; and
WHEREAS, the police department will also be including tablet computers and
printers in each of these vehicles; and
WHEREAS, funding for these expenses were not included in the 2018-2019 and
2019-2020 capital accounts,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $18,000 from Contingency Account #A1990.4000 to the
following accounts:
H3120.2010.19358:
$ 6,000
H3120.2010.20372:
$12,000
Resolution #36 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMOBS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 145-2019 on
September 3, 2019; and
WHEREAS, this resolution awarded a bid for concrete curb work to Con-Tech
Construction Technology Inc. (Con-Tech), of Carmel, New York, in the amount of
$297,500; and
WHEREAS, the Village will be having Con-Tech do less curb work than originally
budgeted; and
WHEREAS, due to this reduction, no CHIPS funding will need to be used for this
project,
30

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 31

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized
to reduce purchase order 2000262 payable to Con-Tech in the amount of $47,000.
Resolution #37 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 140-2019 on August
12, 2019; and
WHEREAS, this resolution broke down the funding sources available for street
resurfacing in the Village; and
WHEREAS, Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, has recommended
changing the amount of funding being used from CHIPS for the resurfacing; and
WHEREAS, the increase of funding from CHIPS has been made available due to the
Village reducing its concrete curb work,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby adopts the
following revision to Resolution 140-2019:
A5110.4000 (Con Edison portion):
H18339:
H19350:
H20364:
CHIPS:

$
39,351
$114,190.23
$ 99,520.48
$ 9,252.35
$187,685.94

Resolution #38 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village is desirous of replacing the existing Engine 118, which has 25
years of service for the Croton-on-Hudson Volunteer Fire Department; and
WHEREAS, on December 17, 2018, the Village awarded the bid for one 2018 Triple
Combination Pumper (Bid #06-2018) to Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the amount of $829,885; and
31

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 32

WHEREAS, continuing discussions with the manufacturer has led to Change Order 2
being drafted, with a contract change amount of $1,326.17; and
WHEREAS, as this is the fifth change order to date on this purchase, the change will
result in a net total credit of $6,483.83 to the Village,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to sign Change Order 2 with Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the amount of $1,326.17.
Resolution #39 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Town of Cortlandt has presented an Inter-Municipal Agreement to
the Village to permit the sharing of equipment and vehicles among various
municipalities; and
WHEREAS, the Village has shared or loaned equipment and vehicles over the years
with the City of Peekskill, Towns of Cortlandt and Philipstown and Village of
Buchanan; and
WHEREAS, such an agreement allows the Village to save on costs that would occur
from the purchase and/or rental of equipment and vehicles; and
WHEREAS, the Village would like to extend this Inter-Municipal Agreement for
another year,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the Inter-Municipal Agreement with the Town of Cortlandt for shared
equipment and vehicles; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the term of this agreement shall be from January 1,
2020, until December 31, 2020.
Resolution #40 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
32

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 33

WHEREAS, the Town of Cortlandt has presented an Inter-Municipal Agreement to
the Village to allow the inclusion of the Village when advertising for bids; and
WHEREAS, the Village has utilized the Town’s purchasing services over the years by
using Town bids to purchase supplies and materials; and
WHEREAS, the Village would like to extend this Inter-Municipal Agreement for
another year,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the Inter-Municipal Agreement with the Town of Cortlandt for purchasing
services; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the term of this agreement shall be from January 1,
2020, until December 31, 2020.
Resolution #41 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS , the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village Treasurer has compiled a list of properties on which the taxes
for the fiscal year 2019-2020 of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson are unpaid,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby gives notice
to these property owners about their unpaid tax balances; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that in accordance with Article 14, Title 3 of the Real
Property Tax Law (Section 1455), the advertisement of this notice shall be published
in the official newspaper(s) of the Village.
Village of Croton-on-Hudson Delinquent Tax Report 2019-2020
VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
DELINQUENT TAX REPORT 2019-2020

Bill Name

Property ID
33

Tax

Penalty

Current

Charge

Charge

Balance

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 34

A&I MARINA LLC

078.16-001-001.025

64.90

7.79

72.69

A&I MARINA LLC

078.16-001-001.03

64.90

7.79

72.69

ADAMS POND VT LLC 2

078.16-001-001.026

64.90

7.79

72.69

AVON DEVELOPMENT ENTERPRISES

078.16-001-001.061

64.90

7.79

72.69

AZZARO AMANDA

078.16-001-004.00

1,135.94

136.31

1,272.25

BELADINO MARC

079.09-009-005.00

2,522.11

302.65

2,824.76

CAMPBELL DONALD D

067.19-002-027.00

480.23

57.63

537.86

CHOW RICHARD

078.16-001-001.04

64.90

7.79

72.69

CRISPI ROBERT

079.09-007-020.00

389.37

46.72

436.09

HALLE ROBERT

078.16-001-001.132

64.90

7.79

72.69

HORTON ROBERT

068.17-003-034.00

2,161.03

259.32

2,420.35

ISAACS DAVID

078.16-001-001.128

64.90

7.79

72.69

JORGENSEN DONALD

078.16-001-001.143

64.90

7.79

72.69

KOZIEN MARCUS

078.16-001-001.108

64.90

7.79

72.69

KWEI ELEANOR

067.20-003-013.00

3,729.20

447.50

4,176.70

LASALLA FRANCIS

079.09-002-076.00

2,141.56

256.99

2,398.55

LASALLA FRANCIS

079.09-002-079.00

207.67

24.92

232.59

LEECH JAMES

067.10-003-017.01

5,236.18

628.34

5,864.52

LEO 1 LLC

078.08-006-029.00

10,451.9
7

1,254.23

11,706.20

MCCABE WILLIAM E II

079.09-001-063.00

2,633.50

316.02

2,949.52

NAPOLITANI MARY A

079.13-002-078.00

5,253.96

630.48

5,884.44

NAPOLITANI RONALD

078.16-001-001.014

64.90

7.79

72.69

NRECA ZEF

079.13-001-077.00

220.65

26.48

247.13

34

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 35

PEREZ MARCUS

078.08-004-056.00

402.35

48.28

450.63

PLOTKIN SAMUEL ZACHARY

078.16-001-001.046

64.90

7.79

72.69

REDDING ARTHUR

068.18-001-024.00

3,530.33

423.64

3,953.97

SCHILK JO ANN

079.09-006-032.00

480.23

57.63

537.86

SHAPIRO CARON

078.08-005-047.00

3,326.10

399.13

3,725.23

SILVER NATHANIEL R

067.19-002-002.00

11,317.0
0

1,358.04

12,675.04

SILVER NATHANIEL R

067.19-002-001.00

1,194.08

143.29

1,337.37

SKYVIEW ARCHITECTURAL

078.16-001-001.083

64.90

7.79

72.69

SPNY DEVELOPMENT LLC

067.14-001-001.00

350.44

42.05

392.49

SPNY DEVELOPMENT LLC

067.14-001-002.00

635.98

76.32

712.30

UJLAKI NAGY ARTHUR

067.19-002-020.01

519.17

62.30

581.47

VENTURE FAMILY LP

067.15-001-008.00

15,586.9
9

1,870.44

17,457.43

VENTURE FAMILY LP

067.15-001-008.01

480.23

57.63

537.86

WILLIAM STREET ESTATES LLC

078.16-001-001.101

64.90

7.79

72.69

75,229.9
7

9,027.61

84,257.58

7. PUBLIC PARTICIPION NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ian Bonnell, 7 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he feels better
knowing that the “FAR” includes all the space and not just occupied
space.
Mr. Bonnell asked the Board to bring back the two story
requirement just for that one tiny section in front of Bank Street, under
the current new Zoning someone can build three stories and if placed just
right it could potentially block views and to improve the site distance to
make it safer for drivers leaving Bank Street.
35

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 36

8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on February 19, 2020 was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9. REPORTS –
Trustee Gallelli thanked the Croton Fire for responding to a large brush
fire on the property between her home and Route 9, the response from
our Fire Department and the Montrose Fire Department showed how well
we are covered and how well our neighboring Fire Departments work
together and to remember to appreciate how lucky we are to have this
kind of valuable volunteer service in our Village.
Trustee Gallelli advised that a dinner was held honoring outgoing Chief
Chris Columbo and acknowledged his service as Chief over the past two
years.
Trustee Horowitz advised that Temple Beth El in Chappaqua will be
holding a program called “Protect our Courts” on Tuesday, March 10 th at
7:30pm.
Trustee Simmons thanked “Croton 100” for putting on a fantastic
presentation this past Saturday, it was inspiring, and encouraged
everyone to get their home audited.
Mayor Pugh thanked Chief Columbo for his service as Chief. Mayor Pugh
also advised of the passing of Gerald Paul Quinn, Mr. Quinn was a former
Captain and Lifetime Member of the Croton Volunteer Fire Department’s
Hook and Ladder Company. Mayor Pugh thanked County Legislator Borgia
for arranging for March 5th to be designated “Gerald Quinn Day” in the
County of Westchester.
Mayor Pugh advised that New York State has established a COVID-19
Hotline to call for information and questions at 888-364-3065; the
information has also been posted on the Village’s website.
Mayor Pugh advised that Saturday, March 7 th will be the grand opening of
the new “Baked by Susan” location at 375 South Riverside Avenue.
36

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 2, 2020
Page 37

Village Manager King advised that we received fifteen “Summerfest”
Vendor Applications and the permit for the “Solar Array” at DPW has been
submitted to the Town of Cortlandt.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote. 11:26pm
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

37

