MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday Mar. 29, 2020 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
David Goldman
Len Simon
John Habib

Joel Gingold
Brian Pugh
Niall Kelleher
Jon Katz

Absent:

Non-members wishing to attend are asked to RSVP to energywiz@aol.com to verify meeting date,
time, and location, which may be adjusted to meet committee member requests. [Bracketed] text
relates to actions subsequent to this meeting.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Scheduled guests: Carmen Santos and Dan Welsh of Sustainable Westchester (SW) and other SW
staff members. They presented SW’s new and ongoing programs.
SW’s two Carmens, Dan, and Michel updated us on existing programs (e.g., CCA and community
solar [CS]) and several new efforts. SW’s EV efforts are now being handled by Seth Leitman (who
replaced Ron Kamen). We know Seth from his work with Sustainable Hudson Valley.
Carmen described SW’s Clean Heating & Cooling and HeatSmart programs that promote heat
pumps. They are presently focusing on commercial and multi-family buildings rather than single
family homes. To that end, they recently met with Croton100 folks.
Dan described their community solar (CS) work, wherein ~500 people (total in Con Ed + NYSEG)
are signed up. One of the CS sites (at Mt. Kisco’s landfill) will produce ~600 kW. Its output will first
go to Mt. Kisco residents. As of Jan. 1, 2021, CS bill credits will be handled through consolidated
billing, thus eliminating the existing byzantine “give you 100% and take away 90% of it” process.
Michel described a power storage project planned for its headquarters, which moved two months
ago to the Mt. Kisco police station building. Supported by Canadian power storage firm Ecamion, it
would include a rooftop CS system, flow and lithium-ion batteries, and a 50 kW DC fast EV
charger. He also described a plan for “direct CCA” that would wheel ~1,000 MW of green power
from western NY via the proposed Empire State Connector transmission line. A solicitation seeking
large end user customers in NYC is underway, supported by the Related Companies, a large real
estate management firm. Rather than bundling CCA power with RECs, this process would provide
actual renewable power to CCA participants.
Dan (and others) described two other programs not related to energy. The first is a phone app for
recycling that directs callers to local municipal programs (in 7 languages), but is not otherwise
involved in recycling. 12-13 municipalities had signed up as a way to help steer their residents to
their local programs. Handled by a private firm, the app does not charge residents, but does charge
participating municipals $3,000 to $5,000 a year. Dan also briefly discussed several promotional
efforts involving composting and renewable landscaping, focused on muni DPW participation. He
mentioned a 2018 workshop held by SW that included “electric landscaping” (i.e., use of electric
lawn mowers, leaf blowers, etc.). Len asked for details, and was directed to the American Green
Zone Alliance (www.agza.net), which supports that effort.
1

Dan mentioned that SW was considering holding a workshop on the updated NYS Stretch Code
sometime later this year. See Jon Katz’s commentary below for more on the Stretch Code.
Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:
- Food scrap recycling: Nothing new to report. Our DEC-granted project is on hold until 2021.
Sustainable Materials Management Inc. (commercial composter in Cortlandt) has not posted any
updates since last August, so it’s unclear when it would be open to receive Croton’s food scraps.
- EV/EVSE: At the Croton school board’s March meeting, MothersOutFront was pushing purchase of
2 EV buses but asking for help in figuring out how to fund them.
Len reviewed CMAQ (Congestion Mitigation for Air Quality), a federal program to reduce noncarbon emissions. It was started in 1991 under the Federal Highway Trust Fund via the Federal
Highway Administration. It will cover 80% of the cost of a vehicle (e.g., EV school bus) with the
non-federal share being 20%. He found no limitations on the composition of that share such as a
prohibition on the use of VW settlement funds. He is determining if such funding could be used in
conjunction with vouchers available through an existing NYSERDA program. It works with the State
DOT to administer part of New York State’s allocation of funds via its CMAQ Improvement
program. Since the CMAQ money goes to the states and is then distributed to groups of counties,
we may need to work with the County Executive. Len agreed to dig deeper to clarify those issues.
- Solar projects: Work on our DPW community solar rooftop project awaits good weather. An
updated proposal from Ecogy for solar parking canopies at Croton Landing and Senasqua Park
was reviewed. Larger systems were proposed totaling over 700 kWp DC (~600 kW AC). About a
dozen trees would need to be re-located and one or two cut down to install the systems. Lindsay
was to meet with CAC tree people at the sites, but that was postponed due to the COVID outbreak.
Jon asked if a separate bid would be needed. Brian did not think so, but we are still too near the
start of this process to deal with that issue. We are still at the general design stage.
Recruitment/Outreach:
- School district: The 3/17/20 meeting of its Environmental Sustainability Committee was cancelled
due to COVID. It may not meet again before the end of the school year.
- Intern: Alexis Stabulas’ Village forest carbon sequestration map data was corrected by Dan
O’Connor, our Village Engineer. Over the years, nearly all properties she had assessed as carbon
sinks had been sold. O’Connor provided a new list of 84 properties that will now need to be
reviewed for their forest covering. Many are small plots, including several single-family homes. We
will wait on this until we can have a face-to-face meeting to sort it out.
- New committee members: Joel and Lindsay queried several people as possible new members. The
three contacted by Joel were already committed to other actions, or had moved out of Croton. In
the case of Cara Politi (who had previously asked to join), she could not commit to regular meeting
attendance but did agree to instead become a committee “ally” that would take on specific tasks.
We continue to look for new members willing to work on projects and tasks.
- Others’ efforts: Joel reported on his research into the University Climate Change Coalition (UC3).
It’s primarily active at SUNY at Stony Brook (on Long Island) and does not offer anything of value
to our work. He also reported on Sustainable Putnam, a nascent group forming in that county,
following C100 as a model. Jon Katz reported on his 3/8/20 heat pump talk at the Holy Name of
Mary church. Jon has 2 years of direct experience with ASHP in his home (which is otherwise
heated by gas). He has solar panels that provide free power to his ASHP. He noted that, without
that free power, the heat from the ASHP would be more expensive than that from his boiler.
2

Communications: none
New/ongoing business:
- Climate Smart Community (CSC) certification: On 3/16/20, the Village Board passed a catch-all
resolution that will hopefully satisfy all qualms expressed by DEC reviewers in our first submission.
A corrected version was submitted on 3/28/20 (deadline was 4/3/20), including a new task
submission that (if accepted) could bring our point total to 301 (which could qualify us for silver
certification instead of bronze). Responses from DEC are tentatively scheduled for May 22, though
it is unclear how COVID issues may affect that date.
- 2020 Stretch Code: Jon Katz reported on his analysis of that more stringent energy code (recently
adopted by New York City) which would affect new construction and major renovations (e.g., home
additions or gut rehabs). An improvement over the existing State’s Energy Conservation
Construction Code (NYECCC), it calls for: better envelope and window insulation factors, HVAC
ductwork within conditioned spaces (to cut distribution losses), various DHW measures (e.g.,
shorter pipe runs), energy recovery, and higher efficiency built-in lighting. Together, such changes
would improve energy efficiency by ~20% compared to the NYECCC. It also calls for making
buildings over 1400 SF both solar and EV ready/capable through (e.g.) dedicated 40 amp breakers
and other measures. NYSERDA estimates that the increased cost of such measures would
average about $2,000, with a ~6-year payback (i.e., would cut energy costs by ~$340 a year).
Carmen suggested checking with Pelham regarding its adoption of the Stretch Code. She agreed
to provide contact info to that end.
We discussed the Village Board’s ability to make such a code upgrade optional with a tax incentive
to encourage its use, rather than making it mandatory. Suffolk County already does so for buildings
following LEED standards. Brian agreed to ask the Village’s attorney to clarify the matter.
- Croton100 (C100) fundraising idea: Joel had an extensive email dialogue with C100 personnel
regarding the viability of a commercial-level opt-in aggregation group that would provide it with an
ongoing source of revenue while encouraging use of renewable power in non-residential facilities.
Much of the dialogue involved correcting misconceptions and misinformation on commercial energy
aggregations. The ball was left in C100’s court to respond.
- Croton Library lighting/solar options: We continue to await announcement of Con Ed’s new
incentives, originally scheduled for mid-April, before re-engaging with Library personnel.
- prepping for next Earth Day: Due to COVID issues, that event is unlikely to occur. As a result, we
do not plan to participate or improve on our existing displays for such events. Our previous idea for
getting the local Scouts to participate by showing their sustainability projects was dropped.
We thank SW for utilizing its Zoom account to allow us to hold this online meeting.

Our next meeting is now scheduled for April 26, 2020 (hopefully, in person).

3

