VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES FOR THE MEETING OF THE PLANNING BOARD FOR
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2020
PRESENT: Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
Steve Krisky
ABSENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
1. Call to Order 8:00 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a. Amicola, Leonard -- 119 Grand Street (Sec. 67.20 Block 3 Lot 24) -- Final
Approval of signage for approved Change of Use retail store (Croton Running
Company).
The Planning Board noted that the Advisory Board of the Visual Environment had emailed its
recommendation to the Planning Board and had written that the Advisory Board was satisfied
with the proposed signage as submitted by the Croton Running Company. The Planning Board
agreed that no further changes were needed and the sign was approved.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to grant final approval for the signage, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and
the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Chairman Luntz absent).
3. NEW BUSINESS
a. Owens, Matthew and Jessica -- 56 Beekman Avenue (Sec. 78.08 Blk. 6 Lot 88) - Application for minor site approval for construction of new single-family
dwelling.
PRESENT: Mr. Dan Ciarcia, Engineer, representing MAF Realty (Mr. Franzoso, the developer
of this property), and Mr. and Mrs. Owens, applicants.
Mr. Ciarcia distributed copies of the proposed slope analysis, and proposed utility connections
for this property. He explained that the lot is oversized for the house, and the construction will
stay clear of the 15% slope. He further explained in more detail the utility connections and the
proposed drainage for the site. The Village Engineer recommended that Mr. Ciarcia review the
inverts and confirm that there is gravity flow.
After a brief discussion about the proposed modular house, the garage, and the placement of
windows, the Planning Board requested that for the following meeting, the applicant submit the

exterior colors and materials of the house, a rendering that is consistent with the submitted
architectural plans, a basement plan as requested by the Village Engineer, and a landscape
plan. In addition, the Planning Board would like Mr. Ciarcia to finalize the engineering work with
the Village Engineer. Because there had been a discussion about the proposed easement, it
was recommended that the utility easements (storm drain and sanitary sewer) potentially be
shifted a little bit so there would be no potential encroachment issues on the neighboring
property.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the minutes of January 14, 2020, seconded by Mr.
Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Chairman Luntz absent).
5. DISCUSSION OF NON-AGENDA ITEMS
●

Discussion of Proposed Landscape Plan for Piney Point properties

The proposed landscape plan will be sent to Chazen Engineering for their landscape architect’s
comments. Staff will send the Planning Board members the previous landscape plan so they
can compare the most recent proposal with the original one. The Planning Board noted that
there needs to be submitted a real-time rendering of the landscape plan. Also, the Planning
board would like an opinion from Chazen’s landscape architect regarding how long one can
expect a newly planted tree to survive on this property. The Planning Board’s concern is what
happens if the trees and plantings die quickly and there is no viable plan to replace them.
The Village Engineer expressed concerns about the two existing trees on the property line side
(on the left) and whether planting additional trees might do more damage to the existing trees.
The Planning Board had other questions for Chazen which concerned what deer protection
there should be, and whether the new trees will survive under the taller tree canopies.
● Follow-up information regarding 3 Arrowcrest Drive retaining wall
The Village Engineer summarized briefly the history of the retaining wall at this property, and
stated that Chazen had deemed the wall safe per the resolution by the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The Village Engineer explained to the board that the application for the retaining wall
will need to be submitted to the Planning Board for a modification of the building envelope (as
part of the subdivision plan).
The Planning Board inquired about whether the conservation easement was settled (the pool
encroached in a conservation area), and the Village Engineer stated the Village Attorney wrote
up an agreement which included payment to the village. He will follow up with the Village
Manager about whether the village signed the encroachment agreement with Mr. Fallacaro.

2

The Planning Board ultimately will need to review the application for modification of the building
envelope in the subdivision (which includes the retaining wall), and once this has been
approved, the applicant will need to submit a building permit and obtain the Certificate of
Occupancy. The current violations still remain on the property until the process is complete.
● Signage
There was a brief discussion about the new signage law that was recently approved by the
Village Board which will allow signage to be on private property but not in the Village Right of
Way. There was a brief discussion about whether the sign on the corner property at Croton
Point Avenue could be considered a billboard.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

