VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
AGENDA FOR THE MEETING OF THE PLANNING BOARD FOR
TUESDAY, JANUARY 14, 2020
PRESENT: Rob Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
Steve Krisky
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee Liaison
Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney
1. Call to Order 8:00 p.m.
Chairman Luntz called the PB meeting of January 14, 2020 to order at 8:00 p.m. and welcomed
Mr. John Ghegan, the newly appointed Planning Board member, to the board.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a. Amicola, Leonard -- 119 Grand Street (Sec. 67.20 Block 3 Lot 24) -- Application
for Change of Use from Professional Services Use to Retail Use (Running Store).
Ellen Brecher, prospective tenant and owner of the Croton Running Company, stated that she
used to work part time at Run on Hudson running store. Although she has had her own real
estate appraisal business for the past 15 years, she has enjoyed the running shoe business and
felt it was a good opportunity to open this type of business in the upper village. She will be the
full-time employee and will have one part-time person. Her goal is to start a new business that
attracts a community of runners and also participates in running events in the Hudson Valley.
She will be closed on Mondays and will operate at various times the rest of the week. She
shared her sign logo which will be forwarded to the Advisory Board of the Visual Environment.
The Planning Board agreed that it was nice to have a retail store in the upper village.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to grant the Change of Use permit and to refer the signage to the
Advisory Board of the Visual Environment for its review and recommendations, seconded by Mr.
Kauderer and the motion was carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
3. OLD BUSINESS
a. Boulos, John -- 30 Piney Point Avenue (Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot 44) -Amendment of minor site plan approval for single-family house construction to
modify tree removal permit and to apply for steep slope permit. Public hearing for
steep slope permit application.

b. Franzoso, Mark -- 32 Piney Point Avenue (Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot 45) -Amendment of minor site plan approval for single family house construction to
modify tree removal permit and to apply for steep slope permit. Public hearing for
steep slope permit application.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion
carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
PRESENT: Mr. Matthew Acocella, Zarin and Steinmetz, Bob Simpson of Carlin-Simpson
Engineering, Tim Cronin, P.E., Ms. Katie Arbusto, Ed Gemmola, AIA and John Imbiano,
Landscape Architect from I Q Landscaping.
Mr. Acocella, attorney at Zarin and Steinmetz, stated that Ms. Cross unfortunately had a conflict
and was unable to attend tonight’s meeting. He stated that the plans that had been reviewed by
the Planning Board on December 10, 2019 have been revised and the updated plans (90%
steep slope stabilization) have been submitted for tonight’s meeting. They will wait to hear
comments on the plan from Chazen and will then incorporate any revisions as necessary.
The Village Engineer gave a brief history of the two minor site plan applications, and the
construction to date. He explained that the applicants have been ordered to return to the
Planning Board to amend the site plan and tree removal plan. He was at the site today and
took pictures for the Planning Board to see. The concrete pier footings have been completed
and the sites are being cleaned up and being prepared for the installation of erosion control
blankets and mesh mats. Mr. Haynes noted that the board had been told that this would be
completed at the end of December and it was lucky that there hadn’t been any extreme
weather.
The temporary stabilization plan had been sent to Chazen and they had recommended using a
different make and model of erosion blankets. The 90% steep slope stabilization plans just
submitted will be sent to Chazen for their review on the permanent stabilization along with the
landscape plans which is also included in the Chazen proposal. The landscaping plans shall
include plans for re-vegetation of the site and specify which plants are appropriate for the site.
Mr. John Imbiano, landscape architect from I Q Landscaping, presented a preliminary
restoration landscape plan which included the two lots with steel mesh stabilization. He
stated that they were very open to revisions and any changes.
He proposed adding a synthetic fiber mesh system where Mr. Simpson had proposed
permanent stabilization and a permanent conservation meadow mix that would naturalize the
area. He included reforestation but at the same time did not want to compromise the permanent
stabilization in the area. The meadow grasses are low maintenance and drought tolerant, with a
mix of fast and slower growing timeframes. in addition to those areas, he noted the different
colors of various native tree species (Oaks, maples, and tulip trees) supplementing 18
2

evergreen trees, adding 50 native shrubs on top of the wall between the two buildings and
dispersed along the woodlands. Below the decks they are proposing indigenous stone.
The Planning Board members agreed that it would be helpful to see a rendering, with the size of
the trees listed and get an idea of what the neighbors will see. The Planning Board also agreed
that the trees weren’t tall enough to screen the house from the neighbors and it seemed that the
large trees needed to be significantly larger. Mr. Imbiano stated that some of the 14 ft high
trees could be upsized but he had some concerns with the installation of the trees. Mr. Acocella
stated that they will take a look at this suggestion. The Planning Board agreed that Chazen can
also give some idea about how high the trees could be and what is viable.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the public:
Mr. Tim Robinson, 15 Nordica, asked that the trees should be as tall as possible. He expressed
concerns that the low growing grasses might be invasive and wanted to make sure they didn’t
spread to other properties. He requested that the porta san be removed.
The Planning Board noted that a maintenance and management program can be part of the
condition of approval.
Mr. Max Shaukut, 28 Piney Point, stated that he had wanted to be as cooperative as possible,
but was concerned about the stability of his house during the drilling and stated that his house
had not been considered in this project. Furthermore, he stated that the tractors were causing
further instability of the site.
To the first concern, the Planning Board encouraged him to discuss any concerns about
damage to his house with his insurance company and to speak with an attorney if he chose to.
Regarding the second concern, Chairman Luntz emphasized that the easement was not
proposed to the Planning Board nor approved by the Planning Board and that Mr. Shaukut was
the one who had given permission for the easement which effectively changed the strategy of
the drainage. Mr. Shaukut stated that he had been given the impression that the change had
been approved. Chairman Luntz reiterated that in the original approval the sewage and water
would be pumped up to Piney Point and that the easement that Mr. Boulos and Mr. Franzoso
had entered into with Mr. Shaukut was not part of these approvals.
Steve Kaplan, 29 Piney Point, made the following comments:
1. Because of heavy equipment, one of the contractors broke a storm drain.
2. A cement truck blocked the street for hours at a time, and ran into a car parked on the
street.
3. A truck knocked a cable down at 5:00 p.m. and no one came to him to let him know that
this had happened.
4. Both village engineers were on site taking pictures today and did not take photos at the
top of the site or around the neighbors’ property.
3

5. He questioned who the Village Engineers worked for?
6. He asked what size trees will be in the back and what happens if these trees die.
Joel Gingold, 55 Nordica Drive, stated that he was pleased to see that 38 Nordica Drive had
been winterized. He made the following points:
1. He urged the Planning Board to suspend any permits and stop all work because the
initial permits were violated.
2. He wants a full accountability and believes that no one is accepting responsibility.
3. He had requested that the Planning Board chairman and the village officials meet with
the residents to explain what had happened, but this meeting did not happen.
4. The modified work order was supposed to stabilize site but it seems to him it is more
construction.
5. He stated that the neighbors had been told that there was a village monitor on site all the
time and he does not see one.
Russ Davies, 27 Nordica, stated his concerns were technical. He is concerned about soil
stabilization and asked that the Planning Board consider stabilization of the entire site. He
would like to see a rendering of the landscaping plan that is more realistic and in real time (not
in future years), and suggested that a site safety plan and means and methods plan be required
as this would have described what trees were to be removed and prevented an easement from
being created. He acknowledged that at this point he agrees that the projects should be
completed.
Mr. Davies summarized his main issues:
1. He believes there should be bracing on the pier heads.
2. He believes that the easement should be reversed and that the landowner should
have the sewage pumped uphill as stated on the original site plan. He believes
that a private easement agreement needs to be approved by the Planning Board.
3. He strongly encouraged the Planning Board to consider the Piney Point sites with
respect to soil excavation, elevations, tree removals and the topography if and
when a minor site plan application for Lot 64 Nordica Drive is submitted.
Chairman Luntz stated that the public hearing will be held open because they are still waiting to
hear back from the consulting engineers and when that does come in there may be more
comments from the public.
The revised landscape plans will be submitted in approximately a week and then these will be
sent to Chazen for their review and comments.
Chairman Luntz stated that there will be no more action taken tonight and thanked the public for
their comments and attendance.

4

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of December 10, 2019,
seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0-2 abstentions (Mr. Ghegan
is a new member and Mr. Krisky was not present at the December meeting).
5. FURTHER DISCUSSION:
Mr. Kauderer reiterated that he believes it would be a good idea in the future for the Planning
Board to have a discussion about how to prevent the Piney Point situation so that this doesn’t
happen again. The Planning Board members agreed.
There was a discussion about the easement and whether or not it would be a good idea to
reverse the sewer drainage plan. It was generally agreed that the money probably would be
better spent on extensive landscaping of the sites instead of reversing the flow of sewer
drainage to go uphill instead of downhill.
The Village Attorney reminded the Planning Board that the lots were not clear cut-- there had
been 20 trees approved to be removed on the site plan resolution. One tree that had not been
approved was removed on the Franzoso lot, the other unapproved 7 trees were cut down for
access.
The Village Attorney also pointed out that the Planning Board had in fact approved of a
construction sequencing plan and methodology as well as a tree removal plan (referencing the
lack of a “means and methods plan” cited by Mr. Davies); these plans had not been followed by
the applicant. The court date for the tree removal violations was adjourned to March.
The Planning Board members agreed that a site safety plan (OSHA) is the responsibility of the
contractor to ensure the safety of the employees. The Village Attorney noted however that the
village had ordered air sampling immediately after reports of dust from drilling. She explained
that the Village has the right to monitor a construction site but there has to be justification for
that decision.
6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:15 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

