Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, March 16, 2020 in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Trustee Simmons

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz

The following officials were absent:
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 8:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS:
Trustee Habib made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 2019-2020
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved with
a 5-0 vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$106,139.17
$3,444.45
$1,553.30
$37,918.32
$6,156.47
-

3. CORRESPONDENCE –
a. E-mail from Quinn Simmons, Croton on Hudson High School Senior,
advising that the “Take Back the Night March and Rally” is scheduled for
April 24th.
Village Manager King stated that at this time the event has not been
cancelled but believes that it will and suggested waiting to see what
happens before the Board approves it.
Trustee Gallelli stated that Quinn has been very active in this program
for several years and she has been a mover and shaker in the “Take

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 2

Back the Night” movement and while she understands if the event has
to be cancelled it would be very unfortunate.
b. Letter from Daniel Boglioli, Treasurer of the “Croton Caring Committee”
dated March 7th acknowledging the Village’s contribution as well as
enclosing their February Newsletter highlighting what the Committee
has done this year.
c. Letter from Dan Lambe, President of “Tree City USA” acknowledging
Croton’s status as a “2019 Tree City USA”.
d. Letter from Kelly Turturro, Regional Director of the “New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation” dated March 6 th discussing
the proposed “Stewardship” program at the “Croton River Gorge Unique
Area”.
Village Manager King advised that she received an e-mail from Diane
Alden advising that there will be “Trail Stewards” at the “Unique Area”
this coming season; Ms. Alden also advised in her e-mail that local
community members have banded together to form the “Friends of the
Croton Gorge Unique Area” and did fundraising and provided the
required financial guarantee to the “Trails Conference” and along with
funding from the “DEC”, it generated a firm commitment from the
“Trails Conference” to put the “Stewardship” program in place this
coming season, Ms. Alden also advised that the “DEC” will fund half of
the $36,000 needed for the program, the Towns of Cortlandt and
Ossining have also provided funding along with the $12,500 from the
“Friends of the Croton Gorge Unique Area” and they are requesting
$5,500 from Croton to complete the funding needed for this coming
season.
Village Manager King explained that a meeting was held last week with
Hank Osbourne to discuss the “Stewardship” program, and it was clearly
stated that the “Stewards” would remain in the “Unique Area” and not
access the Island. Village Manager King stated that if Croton funds this,
we will be in essence funding “Stewards” who are not going to be within
the Village’s boundaries; the Village pays for Police overtime to patrol
the River as well as “Silver Lake’, “Nordica”, and “Truesdale” and one
weekend alone last summer it cost Croton over twelve thousand dollars
in overtime and we do not get any support from the other municipalities
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 3

to help pay for those overtime costs. Village Manager King stated that
based on the fact that Croton is probably paying over $100,000 in
overtime she does not see the need for Croton to also support this and
feels that it makes more sense to put that money into hiring additional
“Park Rangers” so that we can control “Truesdale” , “Nordica”, “Mayo’s
Landing” and “Silver Lake”.
Mayor Pugh stated that he believes the Village Manager has made an
excellent point on how Croton has been carrying more than its fair share
of the burden when it comes to the Croton River especially in the last
two years, the majority of the issues are related to an outgrowth of
visitors on the “DEC’s” “Unique Area” and the problem will exist until the
“DEC” corrects the issues in the “Unique Area”. Mayor Pugh stated that
people will continue to gain access to the River from that point and we
are very fortunate that over the last two summers there hasn’t been any
fatalities on the River. Mayor Pugh stated that if people are going to
access the River from that point without any real education or
preparation of what they are facing down there, he fears that something
is going to happen and the burden will fall on Croton since we provide all
the emergency services. Mayor Pugh stated that he is in favor of
contributing the $2,500, the same amount that the Town of Ossining
contributed.
Village Manager King stated that one of the “Stewards” will be at the
parking area where you can access the “Unique Area” and is concerned
that this could actually encourage people who are turned away to go to
the Croton side and we may need more “Park Rangers” in that area.
Trustee Habib asked if we are putting a band-aid on this that will not
even stop the bleeding, do we need to look at something more
emergent, and requested another all hands on deck meeting.
Mayor Pugh stated that we’ve had quite a few “River Task Force”
meetings, and while we can meet with other municipalities, we cannot
make the State of New York do what they should, they have been
massively negligent and the next person that dies in the River will
almost certainly have come through the “DEC’s” “Unique Area” and
that will be the responsibility of the State of New York and specifically
the “DEC”. Mayor Pugh stated that the “DEC” is very much aware of the
risks that are going on, they’ve had multiple conversations with our
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 4

State elected officials and the “DEC” has to step up and do the right
thing and if they do not then there is not a lot that we can do since it is
their property and totally outside the jurisdiction of the Village of Croton.
Mayor Pugh stated that this is not going to be a permanent solution, and
the Village will not permanently commit to funding the management of
State property but believes that for at least this summer we do
something to address it.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she is a regular attendee at the “Croton River
Task Force” meetings and thinks that we need to keep in mind that
whatever we do tonight is just for one year. Trustee Gallelli stated that
at the last meeting there were representatives from the “DEC” and the
“New York/New Jersey Trails Conference” but there still are a lot of
unknowns in terms of exactly what they are going do, how they are
going to do it and where they are going to be. Trustee Gallelli stated
that she does recognize that this is outside the Village of Croton and that
we are providing over $100,000 a year to provide protection but as a
“coming together” with our fellow municipalities (Town of Ossining and
Town of Cortlandt) she would be agreeable to putting up the same
amount of money as the Town of Ossining and she would also be willing
to put in an additional $2,500 towards our own “Park Ranger” account.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she was under the impression that we were
waiting for the “DEC” to jump in and provide funding and now that they
have done that, are we backing out.
Trustee Habib advised that in the March 6 th letter it indicated that the
“DEC’s” intent is to provide up to $18,000 and asked if that means they
are going to give that funding.
Village Manager King stated that she believes that the word “intent”
means that they are going to give the $18,000 and with the $12,500
from the “Friends of Croton River” and the additional fundraising funds,
she believes that they actually have the $36,000 this year but they are
still requesting a commitment from the Village. Village Manager King
stated that this is the “DEC’s” property and they should pay for it and
feels that the Village should not be funding “Stewards” that will not be
located on Village property.

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 5

Trustee Horowitz stated that she thought that we would not even
consider going forward until the “DEC” agreed to fund it, and believes
that the decision the Board made a couple of weeks ago to limit the
traffic on the “Croton River” is one step that we have taken and now it
looks like we are trying to address the other concerns about garbage,
noise, and invasion of private property and is in favor of giving it a really
good shot to see if we can cover all of our bases.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she does not think we have to decide about
the “Park Rangers” this evening, it can be part of the discussion during
the Budget process, but she is in favor of contributing the $2,500.
Trustee Horowitz asked if there is a way that we can speak to these folks
to advise them what our concerns are in terms of the fact that they may
not be targeting exactly the area that we are concerned with.
Village Manager King advised that we have met with them and they
have clearly said that they were going to stay on the “Unique Area” for
this summer. Village Manager King stated that they have indicated that
because it is not safe for them to go from the “Unique Area” to the
island and because this is the first year and there are a lot of unknowns
and they do not know how confrontational it is going to be they are
going to remain on State property.
Trustee Simmons stated that Croton is the most affected by this whether
they are on State property or not and we are the ones who bear the
brunt of it and is fine going ahead with it.
Trustee Gallelli made a motion that the Village contribute the $2,500
towards the “Stewardship” program. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
E-mail from Diane Alden asking for funding from the Village towards the
“Stewardship” program.
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none
6. RESOLUTIONS Resolution #42 of 2020
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 6

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village has received an application for a special use permit from
Victor Conte to convert the first floor of the property located at 34 Brook Street from
office space to two apartments, and
WHEREAS, the property is currently zoned as RB: Two-Family Residence District,
which does not permit such use under the zoning code; and
WHEREAS, the existing office use by Conte Electric is also a non-conforming use
under the zoning code; and
WHEREAS, under Section 230-53A(2) of the Village Code, a non-conforming use
shall not be changed to another non-conforming use without a special use permit;
and
WHEREAS, the Village Engineer has determined that the above is a Type II Action
under SEQRA,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers
the special use permit application to the Planning Board for comment back to the
Village Board of Trustees.
Resolution #43 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, Sections 5-504, 5-506, and 5-508 of New York State Village law set forth
certain procedures and dates for the adoption of the annual Village budget; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 5-504 the Village Manager, as Budget Officer,
will file the tentative budget in the office of the Village Clerk on or before the
twentieth day of March; and
WHEREAS, Section 5-508.3 provides that a public hearing shall be held upon the
tentative budget, as changed, altered or revised, on or before the fifteenth day of
April,
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 7

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that a Public Hearing is hereby called on the
2020-2021 Tentative Budget for Monday, April 6, 2020 at 8 PM in the Georgianna
Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building.
Resolution #44 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the State Legislature and the Governor have enacted legislation that
establishes a “property tax cap” on the amount that a local government’s property
tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS, this law has been effective for local governments since 2012; and
WHEREAS, under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes
charged on the municipality’s taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at
2 percent or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS, the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap
to protect the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS, state legislation requires that in the event that an override is necessary,
the law enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law No. 2 of 2020 to override the “property tax cap” law was
adopted by the Board of Trustees on January 21, 2020; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is not anticipating adopting a budget
exceeding the property tax levy cap; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory 3 of 2020 has been drafted which will repeal
Local Law No. 2 of 2020,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on April 6, 2020, at 8 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local
Law Introductory No. 3 of 2020, to repeal the prior tax cap override Local Law 2 of
2020.
Resolution #45 of 2020
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 8

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
Authorizing the implementation, and funding in the first instance of the State-aid
Program eligible costs, of a capital project, and appropriating funds, therefore.
WHEREAS, a Project for Croton-on-Hudson Parking Facility Pedestrian and Bicycle
Enhancements, PIN 8780.41 (“the Project”) is eligible for funding under a New York
State Program administered by the New York State Department of Transportation
(NYSDOT); and
WHEREAS, a sum not to exceed $1,000,000 in Program Funding is available to
progress the project.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to advance the Project by
making a commitment of 100% of the State share of the costs of the construction
work.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Board of Trustees, duly
convened does hereby resolve that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Board of
Trustees hereby approves the above-subject project; and it is hereby further
RESOLVED, that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to pay in the first instance 100% of the
cost of construction work for the Project or portions thereof; and it is further
RESOLVED, that the sum of $1,000,000 is hereby appropriated from the Capital and
made available to cover the cost of participation in the above phase of the Project;
and it is further
RESOLVED, that in the event the full state share costs of the Project exceeds the
amount appropriated above, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Village Board of
Trustees shall convene as soon as possible to appropriate said excess amount
immediately upon the notification by the Village Manager thereof, and it is further
RESOLVED, that the Village Manager of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson be and is
hereby authorized to execute all necessary agreements, certifications or
reimbursement requests for State Aid on behalf of the Village of Croton-onHudson
with the “New York State Department of Transportation” in connection with the
advancement or approval of the Project and providing for the administration of the
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 9

Project and the Municipality's first instance funding of project costs and permanent
funding of the local share of federal-aid and state-aid eligible Project costs and all
Project costs within appropriations therefore that are not so eligible, and it is further
RESOLVED, that a Certified Copy of this resolution be filed with the “New York State
Commissioner of Transportation” of the State of New York by attaching it to any
necessary Agreement in connection with the Project between the Village of Crotonon-Hudson and the State of New York; and it is further
RESOLVED, that this Resolution shall take effect immediately.
Resolution #46 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson seeks certification as a Climate Smart
Community under the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
(DEC) program of that name; and
WHEREAS, the DEC certifiers requested revision and re-submission of documents
and information that, if accepted, could secure that certification; and
WHEREAS, some of that information involved acceptance and affirmation of various
studies and actions already received, accepted, and posted on the Village’s website
but lacking official resolutions to that effect,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the following documents developed at the
behest of the Village and posted on the Village website are hereby formally
accepted,
- Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory of December 2009
- February 2012 Community and Government Operations Climate Action Plan
- 2019 Appendix to the February 2012 Climate Action Plan (addressing only Crotonon-Hudson)
- 2018 Municipal Greenhouse Gas Inventory

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 10

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village adopts and has already pursued
recommendations for greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction actions set forth in the
February 2012 document,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that, by an article in its April 2020 Village
newsletter, the Village will create a 20-day period for comments by the public on
the above-named document,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village will seek to reduce its municipal
GHG emissions by 20% between 2010 and the end of 2025, and its community GHG
by 10% between 2010 and 2030,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that it is Village policy to encourage proposals for
community gardens on Village-owned property other than its existing parks and
forested areas, and community gardens on private property within the Village, if
accepted by its owners.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King read an e-mail from Lindsay Audin encouraging the Board to
pass the “CSC Certification” resolution, Mr. Audin stated that he wrote the
resolution to comply with comments from the “State Department of Environmental
Conservation” that they received in response to their first “CSC” submission; it
reflects the minimum steps needed to overcome concerns expressed in that review,
nothing in the resolution commits the Village to any action that would cost money
and thanked the Board for all their help in getting Croton certified as a “Climate
Smart Community”.
Mayor Pugh thanked Lindsay Audin for all the work he has done for the Village and
with the passing of the “Climate Protection Act” and other legislation that will
position the Village very well in the future.
Resolution #47 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was put forth for adoption.
WHEREAS, the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee has requested that the Village study
ways to improve the safety at the intersection of Grand Street and Old Post Road
South by obtaining a greater understanding of traffic patterns in the area; and
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 11

WHEREAS, on October 30, 2018, a Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued to traffic
consultant engineering firms; and
WHEREAS, on March 4, 2019, the Village Board approved the proposal from
Provident Design Engineering (PDE) of Hawthorne, New York, to conduct a traffic
study in the above-mentioned area; and
WHEREAS, the results of this traffic study were presented and discussed at Village
Board work sessions on September 23, 2019, and March 9, 2020; and
WHEREAS, at these work sessions, five concept plans for the intersections were
proposed, and
WHEREAS, the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee has endorsed Concept Plan No. 4,
which would make the intersection an all-way stop intersection; and
WHEREAS, Provident Design Engineering (PDE) has provided a new proposal to
develop design drawings to implement Concept Plan No. 4 at a cost of $6,000,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby endorses Concept
Plan No. 4, as recommended by the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Manager to approve the proposal from Provident Design Engineering (PDE) in the
amount of $6;000 and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for this engineering design proposal is
available in the following account: Traffic Control – Contractual: A3310.4000
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simmons stated that he has mixed feelings about this, he agrees that
something needs to be done, but the Chief has never shown us that it is a very
dangerous area. Trustee Simmons stated that we also discussed taking the slow
route and to do it incrementally and is wondering if we do the lines and bump-outs
as they suggest, square out the corner to make drivers slow down, put in the
textured intersection that will also cause traffic to slow down and then we wait to
see how that works and if we are not satisfied then we can go ahead with the stop
signs.
Trustee Horowitz stated that we tried a blinking light, and it really didn’t work and
while she respects the “Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee” and their commitment
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 12

to make the Village safer she believes that this idea makes it less safe for kids
crossing in that location; there is nothing that would tell you when you are safe to
go into the intersection; at least with a green light it tells you when it is your turn
and without any lights there is no way that they can figure out when it is their turn
to cross. Trustee Horowitz stated that the only place in the Village where there are
multiple stop signs is the five corners and that is another place that is very
confusing because even if you know who has the right of way, that does not mean
that everyone else knows, but at least there is a crossing guard at that location to
help kids cross the street during those times when children are going to and from
school.
Trustee Gallelli stated that when it was just a blinking light she had serious
concerns, but the addition of the significant stop signs is what makes the big
difference along with the lines on the street and the squaring off of the corner and
believes that they all have to happen together.
Mayor Pugh stated that we hired a “Traffic Engineer” to provide us with a menu of
options, and we should choose from those options, it is not the role of the Board of
Trustees to modify the plan.
Trustee Habib asked if there was public opinion of this being a burden on
commuting down from Mt. Airy.
Mayor Pugh stated that no one has raised the commuting issue. Mayor Pugh stated
that the Chief provided us with a comparison of different intersections in the Village
that showed that this area had substantially more accidents.
Trustee Habib stated that he sees no reason not to proceed if the professional
assessment is that stop signs would provide a safer environment.
Trustee Gallelli stated that stops signs are black and white, they provide clarity and
it is what is missing there right now. Trustee Gallelli stated that she thinks this is a
good concept but suggested that, if we choose to proceed, that we get back to the
“Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee” to put some thought into how to educate
walkers all over the Village and referred to the “Safe Routes to School” program
that was endorsed by the school and the “Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee” and
suggested going back to that and enhance the education.
Village Manager King stated that we had two work sessions with the consultant to
explain their thought process and she was under the impression that there was
consensus to go forward; the “Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee” also endorsed
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 13

this plan and it is what the “Traffic Consultant” recommended and what our
Superintendent also believes is the best concept plan so we either go with this or
table it.
Mayor Pugh stated that further deliberation is fine, and we can certainly table this.
Resolution was tabled.
Resolution #48 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village has been working with WSP Sells Consulting and the
Westchester County Department of Health to complete the design for
improvements of the existing water infrastructure along Cleveland Drive and Old
Post Road North; and
WHEREAS, this project is part of the Village’s ongoing goal of improving and
maintaining its aging infrastructure; and
WHEREAS, on February 13, 2020, the Village issued an invitation to bid; and
WHEREAS, on March 13, 2020, two bids were received and opened, and
WHEREAS, Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer, has reviewed the bids submitted and
is recommending the low bidder, Michels Pipe Services; and
WHEREAS, Michels Pipe Services now owns the former Heitkamp company, which
has successfully completed all previous water main relining in the Village,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is authorized to accept
the bid from Michels Pipe Services in the amount of $1,224,666 to complete this
work.
7. PUBLIC PARTICIPION NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES -

13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 14

Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
March 2, 2020 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Executive Session held
on March 9, 2020 was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Executive Session held
on March 12, 2020 was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9. REPORTS –
Trustee Simmons encouraged everyone in the Village to seek out
restaurants in the Village that are doing take-out to help them out during
this very difficult time and also suggested putting up a list of Croton
restaurants on our Web Site for people who may be interested in
purchasing gift cards to use in the future.
Trustee Habib thanked the Village Manager and the staff for making these
very hard decisions in conjunction with our Police Chief and County Officials.
Trustee Horowitz agreed that we need to support our local restaurants and
stated that the Village has done an excellent job of communicating to the
public.
Trustee Gallelli stated that these are unprecedented times with things
changing hour by hour and we need to follow those regulations as they are
offered to us even though they may change from day to day. Trustee
Gallelli sent kudos to Village Manager King and our staff on how they have
kept everyone informed and managed all of the various requirements
coming down on an hourly basis. Trustee Gallelli stated that as we move
ahead there will be a lot of closings and urged everyone to keep on top of it
by going onto the Village’s Web Site.
Mayor Pugh reiterated all the praise for the Village staff, they have been
very flexible and creative in what is an ever changing unprecedented set of
challenges. Mayor Pugh thanked out first responders and all those working
at the supermarkets that have been supplying residents with necessities as
they prepare to self-quarantine. Mayor Pugh directed everyone to the
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 16, 2020
Page 15

Village’s Web Site: Crotononhudson-ny.gov for ongoing information, anyone
with more specific questions they are encouraged to call 211 in
Westchester County, or the State Department of Health 888-364-3065.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Village Board will be working on long term
strategic issues that will be addressed as part of the Budget Process. Mayor
Pugh also encouraged everyone to complete the Census, it is incredibly
important for the next decade and as stressful as the next few weeks will
be, it is very important to complete the forms.
Village Manager King advised that the Municipal Building is closed to the
public, we have mailed out utility bills today and we strongly encourage
people to pay them online or mail in the check because we will not be
accepting in-person payments for the next few weeks. Village Manager King
advised that some of the parks have been closed but the trails and “Croton
Landing” currently remain open. Village Manager King encouraged residents
to sign up to receive e-mails and we are currently working on how to do the
Budget Work Sessions so that the public can be involved.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote. 9:12pm
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary

__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

15

