Special Meeting and Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, NY was held on Monday, April 27, 2020 via ZOOM and WebStreaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Village Clerk DiSanto
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons
Administrative Assistant Brian Healy

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2.

SPECIAL MEETING RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #59 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Habib Aye,
Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
BUDGET ADOPTION
A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR COMMENCING ON JUNE
1, 2020 AND ENDING MAY 31, 2021 MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE CONDUCT
OF THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON GOVERNMENT AND ESTABLISHING THE
RATES OF COMPENSATION FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES FOR SUCH PERIOD.
WHEREAS, this Board has met at the time and place specified in the notice of public
hearing on the preliminary budget and heard all persons desiring to be heard
thereon,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the preliminary budget as amended and
revised and as hereinafter set forth is hereby adopted and that the several amounts
stated in column titled “Adopted” in Schedule
Al - General Fund,
F1 - Water Fund,
G1 - Sewer Fund,
HN1 – Capital Fund
Schedule 7 - Debt Service,

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 2

be adopted and hereby appropriated for the objects and purposes specified and the
salaries and wages stated in Schedule 5 of such budget shall be and are hereby
fixed at the amounts shown therein effective June 1, 2020.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King advised that this resolution reflects the alternative “Capital
Fund” Proposed Plan that was distributed to the Board; the initial “Capital Budget”
for the “General Fund” was at $9,676,275 and is now set for $4,974,600; the
following changes were made to the “Tentative Budget”; decrease in
“Appropriations” of $415,387.81, decrease in “Non-Tax Revenues” of $909,000,
increase in “Appropriated Fund Balance” of $285,000, bringing the new “Tax Levy”
to $11,929,350. Village Manager King advised that even though the “Tax Levy” is
higher than the “Tentative Budget”, it is still $152,222 below the “Tax Levy Cap”,
the Tax Rate increase is 1.98 percent.
Mayor Pugh stated that this has been a whirlwind of a month trying to deal with a
dramatically different economic environment from when the “Tentative Budget”
was prepared and thanked the staff for a tremendous job in helping us to find
economies. Mayor Pugh stated that we will have to continue to be creative because
it will be a struggle to see the revenues we’ve seen in the past; we may see
increases in our pension contributions due to decreases in the Stock Market and
does not believe this will be our last austerity budget. Mayor Pugh stated that we
will continue to review some of the savings we’ve made and while it could be
repeated, skipping things like training could degrade the quality of the services that
we are able to provide and we will continue to work throughout the year to make
our operations more efficient.
Trustee Habib thanked the staff for the tremendous teamwork in tightening their
belts, this is the best of the best of a bad situation that we hope will not be
misinterpreted as cutting the fat or an overdue hatchet of expenditures and, like the
Mayor stated, we get excellence in government when we train our employees and
our Village elected officials.
Resolution #60 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 3

BE IT RESOLVED, the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to place the following
past due receivables from fiscal year 2019-2020 for the general fund on the tax bills
for the fiscal year June 1, 2020, through May 31, 2021:
GENERAL FUND
SNOW REMOVAL

$334.86

ALARM FEES

$2,525.00

COMMERCIAL GARBAGE

$3,894.65

PRIVATE PROPERTY CLEAN UP

$3,900.00

TOTAL

$10,654.51

WATER and SEWER FUNDS
UNPAID WATER AND SEWER
CHARGES

$104,846.80

BE IT RESOLVED, the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to place the following
past due receivables from fiscal year 2018-2019 for the general fund on the tax bills
for the fiscal year June 1, 2019, through May 31, 2020:
Resolution #61 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003; and
WHEREAS, this Local Law called for the setting of Village Fees through Board
Resolutions; and

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 4

WHEREAS, it is to the benefit of both the Village and the general public to have all
fees conveniently placed in one schedule, which may be amended from time to
time, and
WHEREAS, a master fee schedule was adopted on October 7, 2003 and has since
been modified a number of times,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
the attached updated master fee schedule effective June 1, 2020.
Resolution #62 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye,
Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
TAX WARRANT
BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor is hereby authorized to sign the Tax Warrant for the
collection of taxes for the period beginning June 1, 2020 through May 31, 2021, and
FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is hereby commanded to receive
and collect from the persons named in the tax roll hereunto annexed, the several
sums stated in the last column hereof opposite their respective names, being a total
of $12,053,334.31.
For the current budget
For Supplemental Tax Bills
Sub-total
For Unpaid Water Rents
and Charges
For Snow Removal

$11,929,350.00
$ 8,483.00
$11,937,833.00
$104,846.80
$334.86

For Alarms

$2,525.00

For Commercial Garbage

$3,894.65
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 5

Private Property Clean up
TOTAL

$3,900.00
$12,053,334.31

and FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is hereby commanded to
receive and collect such sums without additional charge until July 1, 2020, and
thereafter to collect such of the sums as have not been theretofore collected, an
additional charge of five per centum for the first month or fraction thereof and one
percent for each month or fraction thereof thereafter until paid, and
FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is commanded to return the tax roll
and warrant to the Village Clerk on or before the first day of March, 2021, and to
deliver to the Board of Trustees at the same time an account of the taxes remaining
unpaid: describing each parcel of real property upon which taxes are unpaid,
showing the person or persons to whom the parcel is assessed and showing as to
each parcel the amount of tax unpaid.
REGULAR MEETING
3. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS:
Trustee Simmons made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 2019-2020
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with the
following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$76,728.16
$7,790.24
$3,567.58
$300,883.43
-

4.

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none

5.

CORRESPONDENCE

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 6

a. Letter from Marie Therese Dominquez, Commissioner of the New York
State Department of Transportation dated April 16, 2020 advising that
the fence located along Route 9 in the Village of Croton will be
repaired.
Trustee Gallelli asked if this includes the fencing to the north on North
Riverside or is this just the area near South Riverside.
Village Manager King advised that we sent photos of all the damaged
sections, but it remains to be seen what they will actually repair.
6.

RESOLUTIONS

Resolution #63 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from David M. Christensen, owner of 85-87 Grand Street, for a non-conforming use
in a residential zone, and
WHEREAS, the property is currently a legal non-conforming use in the RB TwoFamily residential district; and
WHEREAS, under Section 230-53A(2) of the Village Code, a non-conforming use
shall not be changed to another non-conforming use without a special use permit;
and
WHEREAS, this action is a Type II action under the New York State Environmental
Quality Review Act, which does not require an environmental review,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
refers the special permit application to the Planning Board for a recommendation
back to the Village Board of Trustees.
Resolution #64 of 2019
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 7

New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the CARES Act was signed into law by President Trump on March 27,
2020; and
WHEREAS, included in this law was the CARES Act Provider Relief Fund, which
provides for $100 billion in relief funds to hospitals and other healthcare providers
on the front lines of the coronavirus response; and
WHEREAS, these funds are payments, not loans, to healthcare providers, and will
not need to be repaid; and
WHEREAS, the Village has received a payment of $6,151.28 in recognition of the
work provided by Croton Emergency Medical Services (EMS),
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the acceptance of these funds, and any subsequent funding from the
CARES Act; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
deposit said funds into the appropriate revenue account(s).
DISCUSSION:
Village Treasurer Bullock explained that our third party billing vender (Pro-Claim)
who bills Medicare and Medicaid on behalf of the Village prepared and submitted
the paperwork for these funds.
Village Manager King advised that the money will be used to purchase additional
“PPE” for our emergency medical service (EMS) workers.
Resolution #65 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on April 6, 2020, the Village Board approved the proposal from Kevin
Dwarka, a land use and economic consultant, to assist in the marketing and
branding of the Village-owned parcel known as the Katz Property; and
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 8

WHEREAS, Mr. Dwarka has since put the proposal in the form of a contractual
agreement; and
WHEREAS, the cost of the work included in this agreement shall be $5,000,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute the agreement with Kevin Dwarka in the amount of
$5,000; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for this proposal is included in the following
account: A8020.4000.
7.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on April 16, 2020
was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Special Meeting held on April 13, 2020
was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
8.

REPORTS

Trustee Simmons asked the community to continue supporting our local
restaurants.
Trustee Gallelli reminded everyone to complete the 2020 Census. Trustee
Gallelli advised that she and Trustee Horowitz have gotten involved with the
School District to take some steps to insure that there will be a proper
acknowledgement of the “2020 Class” so that we make it special for them
even if school is not back in session. Trustee Gallelli asked everyone to
continue to support all aspects of our Village.
Mayor Pugh appointed Tsui Yuen Pappas and Maria Modica Snow to the
Diversity and Inclusion Committee, and Leo Wiegman to the Business
Development Committee.
Mayor Pugh advised that the three municipal executives of the jurisdictions
along the Croton River (Croton-on-Hudson, Cortlandt and Town of Ossining)
as well as Assemblywoman Sandy Galef will be submitting a letter to the
“New York State Department of Environmental Conservation” requesting that
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 9

they insure that the “Croton Gorge Unique Area” be closed for the duration of
the pause. Mayor Pugh stated that he believes this is a prudent “social
distancing” measure in light of the many issues we have historically seen in
the warm weather as well as the site not having any sanitary facilities.
Mayor Pugh advised that the “New York Conference of Mayors” has requested
that the Governor issue a local option to give Villages and Cities the authority
to waive late property tax penalties in certain circumstances as they have
done for Westchester County. Mayor Pugh advised that penalties are set out
in State Law and we are not at liberty to waive them on our own.
Mayor Pugh announced that Ballot request applications are going out in the
mail for the June 26th Primary and encouraged residents to be on the lookout
for them, this is being done so that voters can vote in a safe manner.
Mayor Pugh encouraged everyone to keep up the good work and continue the
social distancing/mask wearing protocols and to continue to support Croton’s
local businesses and people in need in our community.
Village Manager King advised that last year the Board approved the purchase
of two six-wheel dump trucks with spreaders at a cost of $500,000. Village
Manager King advised that the Department of Public Works was able to
purchase these vehicles at approximately $50,000 less than the budgeted
amount; the Department of Public Works is able to use this surplus funding to
purchase an additional pick-up truck which will have a dump insert and
spreader which will give them an additional dump truck for snow removal; it
also allows them to give the Police Department the vehicle that
Superintendent Frank Balbi currently drives. Village Manager King stated
that she reached out to our Bonding Counsel to make sure that we can do
this, and they recommended that we bring this up in a public meeting so that
it is on the record.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting and enter into an Executive Session to discuss the
proposed acquisition, sale or lease of real property on Hollis Lane was made
by Trustee Horowitz; the motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and
approved with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
Respectfully submitted
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 27, 2020 Budget Adoption and Regular Meeting
Page 10

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

10

