Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, April 6, 2020 – VIA ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Village Clerk DiSanto

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 8:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS:
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20192020 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved
with a 5-0 vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$180,722.30
$18,612.79
$8,110.42
$24,755.21
$3,725.04
-

3. PRESENTATION: Croton Point Avenue Traffic, Pedestrian, and Bicycle
Improvement Project
Superintendent of Public Works Frank Balbi advised that the project started
last Tuesday installing curbs and sidewalks on the southside of the
eastbound lane and that he and the General Foreman have been making
inspections and the necessary reviews and documentations required by the
State. Superintendent Balbi stated that because of the current
circumstances, traffic has been way down in that area and they have been
able to keep one lane closed without any issues.
Trustee Gallelli asked Superintendent Balbi to speak to how the contractors
are meeting the State’s requirement for “social distancing”.
Superintendent Balbi stated that as part of the State’s Health and Safety
requirements, the State has submitted an addendum to those requirements
that include wearing masks, gloves, and staying six feet apart; the

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 2

contractors are not interacting with each other and they are keeping away
from each other as best they can.
Mayor Pugh asked Superintendent Balbi if they have been able to expand
construction times and whether these changes will have an overall impact
on the timeline of the project.
Superintendent Balbi advised that the contractors have been able to start at
7:30am as opposed 8:30am and while we are seeing some benefit to the
lighter traffic, he gets the sense that there might be some delays in
deliveries from the vendors, it hasn’t happened yet but we will know better
in a couple of weeks.
Mayor Pugh asked Village Manager King if she has any updates with regards
to the “NYS Department of Transportation’s” finalization of their
commitment to the Village.
Village Manager King advised that when she spoke with the “NYS
Department of Transportation” the Friday before the project began, they
advised that the contracts were in Albany; they suspected things to move
slowly because many people are working from home but that eventually the
contracts will make it back down to the “Local Projects Unit” and then back
to the Village.
Mayor Pugh thanked Superintendent Balbi for staying on top of this project
and for all the good work the Public Works Department is doing.
4. CORRESPONDENCE:
a. Letter from Woody Pascal, Deputy Commissioner of the “NYS Department
of Housing and Community Renewal” dated March 11, 2020 updating the
Board on the “ETPA’s” fee increase.
b. Notice from the “NYS Department of Environmental Conservation” dated
March 12, 2020 advising that they will be resuming the “Hydrilla
Treatment” on the Croton River beginning June 1 st. Village Manager King
stated that she believes it is unlikely the treatment will start June 1 st and
we should be receiving an amended letter.

2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 3

c. Letter from William R. Spade, of Sasaki & Spade Architects dated March
31, 2020 asking the Board to amend a “Site Plan” approval from 1972 for
the property located at 40 Prospect Place.
Village Manager King explained that this property has three Town Homes,
the owner lives in one and rents out the others; the owner is asking for the
Board to remove the restriction on the “Site Plan” so that he can expand
the unit that he lives to add another first floor bedroom and bathroom and
a new family room. Village Manager King stated that she is recommending
that the Board refer this to Village Attorney as well as the Planning Board.
Village Attorney Whitehead recommended that before it goes to the
Planning Board, she would like to have the opportunity to look at it to see
exactly what approvals are required.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simmons and seconded by Trustee Gallelli the
Board of Trustees approved referring the “Site Plan” amendment request
from the property owner of 40 Prospect Avenue as detailed in a letter
from Sasaki & Spade Architects dated March 31, 2020 to the Village
Attorney and the Planning Board. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none
7. RESOLUTIONS Resolution #50 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, Westchester County has commenced the construction of a multimillion
dollar radio replacement project in an effort to enhance the emergency services
communications systems used by the fire, EMS, Public Safety Answering Points
(PSAPs) and Hospitals in the county; and
WHEREAS, this system is used daily for primary emergency radio communications
to coordinate emergency responses and to support the coordination of the heavily
used fire and EMS mutual aid system; and
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 4

WHEREAS, new system enhancements include improved system coverage, including
on-street portable radio coverage, upgraded system reliability, redundancy and
interoperability; and
WHEREAS, one component of the system upgrade will be the replacement of the
current outdated trunked radio equipment the County provided in the past for first
line emergency response apparatus, and
WHEREAS, Westchester County has provided an intermunicipal agreement for the
Village to enter into to provide this new equipment,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute an intermunicipal agreement with Westchester County
to replace the trunked radio equipment for first line emergency response apparatus.
Resolution #51 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program was
approved by referendum in 2003; and
WHEREAS, Article 11-A of the New York State General Municipal Law requires that
the list of Fire Department members indicating those who earned a year of service
credit during the calendar year, those that did not earn a year of credit, and those
who waived participation must be certified under oath by the Fire Department; and
WHEREAS, once certified, this list must be approved by the Village Board and
posted for 30 days,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the list for 2019 and authorizes its posting for 30 days.
Resolution #52 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 5

WHEREAS, in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture
that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees; and
WHEREAS: Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world; and
WHEREAS, trees provide an abundance of environmental and aesthetic advantages
to citizens and wildlife, wherever they are found; and
WHEREAS, trees in our Village increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community; and
WHEREAS:
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been recognized as a Tree City
USA by the National Arbor Day Foundation since 1984 and desires to continue its
tree-planting program,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: The Village of Croton-on-Hudson, on behalf of
the Village Board of Trustees, does hereby proclaim April 24, 2020, as “Arbor Day”;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that all residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson are
urged to support efforts to preserve our urban forests, cool our streets, clean our
air, reduce our carbon footprint and improve our overall state of wellbeing.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib advised that the Arboretum is open and urged people to maintain
social distancing but to enjoy the beautiful walk.
Resolution #53 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the mild winter this year has left the Department of Public Works (DPW)
with funding in the snow removal budget; and
WHEREAS, the DPW has been performing more roadway/drainage improvements
throughout the Village due to the mild conditions; and
WHEREAS, the Superintendent of Public Works has asked to transfer funds from the
snow removal budget to the street maintenance budget to continue this work,
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 6

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2019-2020 budget in the amount of $10,000:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A5110.4200 – Street Maintenance - Supplies
GENERAL EXPENSES
Decrease
A5142.4200 – Snow Removal – Supplies

$10,000

$10,000

Resolution #54 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWIZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, along with the rest of New York and the
country, is currently experiencing the coronavirus, or COVID-19, pandemic; and
WHEREAS, non-essential businesses have been ordered closed and many thousands
of individuals have been furloughed or fired from their places of employment; and
WHEREAS, the quarterly utility bills were mailed to all residents on March 17, 2020,
and are due on April 15, 2020; and
WHEREAS, due to the extraordinary circumstances, the Village would like to assist
those residents who are in need by waiving penalties on the March 15, 2020, utility
bills; and
WHEREAS, this would apply for any utility bill payment which is received after the
due date of April 15, 2020,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: The Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of
Trustees does hereby authorize the Village Treasurer to waive any and all penalties
that would be accrued for late payment of the March 15, 2020, utility bills through
June 12, 2020; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such grace period shall extend to those accounts in
Tiers 1 through 4 of the water-rate schedules, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that penalties will begin accruing on June 15, 2020.
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 7

DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King explained that June 15 th is the next billing cycle and we are
looking to have all payments cleared up so that we start fresh with the next billing
cycle.
Mayor Pugh encouraged the community to use the “Direct Payment” method which
does not carry fees; the Village cannot waive credit card fees because those fees
are charged by the credit card companies and the Village is not in the position to
cover those costs.
Resolution #55 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, on January 18, 2020, the Village’s mini-excavator was damaged while
performing work at Veterans Plaza; and
WHEREAS, a claim was submitted
reimbursement of the damage; and

to

the

Village’s

insurance

carrier

for

WHEREAS, the Village has received a reimbursement check from its insurance
carrier in the amount of $5,303.73,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2019-2020 budget in the amount of $5,303.73:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A1000.2680–Insurance Recoveries

$5,303.73

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A5110.4700–Street Maintenance– Equip. Repair

$5,303.73

Resolution #56 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 8

WHEREAS, on March 2, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees approved Local Law
Introductory No. 9 of 2019 to change the zoning of certain parcels in the Municipal
Place Gateway Overlay Zoning District, which upon adoption became Local Law 4 of
2020; and
WHEREAS, the Village has received a proposal from Kevin Dwarka, a land use and
economic consultant, to assist in the marketing and branding of the Village-owned
parcel known as the Katz Property; and
WHEREAS, the proposal also includes a provision for Mr. Dwarka to assist in the
drafting of an RFP for the purchase and development of this property; and
WHEREAS, the cost of the work included in this proposal shall be $5,000,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to accept the proposal from Kevin Dwarka in the amount of $5,000;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for this proposal is included in the following
account: A8020.4000.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib stated that this is a step forward that was discussed at length at
several meetings and the benefits in the description of services are rather broad for
the fee which seems reasonable.
Mayor Pugh advised that he has been forming a “Municipal Place Advisory Task
Force” to provide the Board with input and feedback on the “RFP” as well as any
proposals that we receive and has reached out to Kate Bellingham, Geoffrey
Haynes, Bruce Kauderer, Gregory Maher, Janet Monahan, and Jean Shaw to serve.
Trustee Horowitz asked if there is a plan of how this group will get together and how
they will work with the consultant. Trustee Horowitz also asked if it was possible for
her to sit in on that meeting.
Mayor Pugh advised that they will be getting together via “Skype” to discuss their
thoughts and provide their suggestions to the consultant. Mayor Pugh stated that
there will be Trustee Liaisons and asked Trustee Horowitz and Trustee Gallelli to
serve as Liaisons.
Village Manager King stated that she was under the impression that this group
would be helping to review proposals once they were received; if the group is going
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 9

to be involved with the drafting of the “RFP”, she does not believe the $5,000 is
going to be enough because she does not see anywhere in Mr. Dwarka’s proposal
envisioning public meetings on the drafting of the “RFP” and it would be best to
keep it to the professional to prepare it.
Mayor Pugh stated that he does not see that public meetings are necessary, but
rather a memo from the group with their suggestions and possibly a follow up
phone call.
Trustee Gallelli suggested that Mr. Dwarka be allowed to draw up the “RFP” which
should include what he perceives as being the needs of the community and what
the market is for properties like this, and then, as a group, we can address some
actual concrete language that he has suggested.
Trustee Horowitz agreed that his proposal does not say that there will be any
community input and is probably why he was able to give us a price of $5,000, but
she recalls that we did say that the “RFP” would be the place where we would allow
the community to have input.
Trustee Simmons stated that he agrees with Trustee Horowitz that it would be good
to have the input first and then put that input into the proper language.
Trustee Habib stated that his understanding is the opposite, we would get a well
written draft based on our expectations of the kind of limited burden development
we want on this unique property and then we would have a comment period.
Trustee Simmons asked how Mr. Dwarka would know this without having a list of
what we want and believes that the committee should have the opportunity to
share those ideas and thoughts with him.
Trustee Horowitz stated that the number one goal is community input, and this
would be the place to share our thoughts and aspirations and believes it is not
going to come from a consultant but rather from our community.
Mayor Pugh stated that according to Mr. Dwarka’s contract we would have one to
two weeks to review the draft and our comments could be included at that time.
Trustee Habib recommended expanding that time-frame.
Village Manager King stated that she was under the impression that the idea was to
get a wide variety of proposals that we could then review; the “RFP” should be
drafted so that we are soliciting a lot of good projects.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 10

Mayor Pugh asked if the price would be affected if we extended the time-frame
between the delivery and the return of our comments and suggested that we have
a four to five week period in order to review the draft.
Village Manger King said that she does not believe so and will have a discussion
with Mr. Dwarka.
Trustee Horowitz recommended five weeks.
The Board agreed to approve the proposal based on expanding the time-frame to
return comments to the consultant to five weeks.
Resolution #57 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following vote: 5-0.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from John Roper, of Amelia JT LLC, located at 1 Niles Road, for a non-conforming use
in a residential zone; and
WHEREAS, an existing special permit for this property has been issued by the
Village Board to General Splice Corporation as of November 8, 2019, and is set to
expire on November 7, 2024; and
WHEREAS, under Section 230-53A(2) of the Village Code, a non-conforming use
shall not be changed to another non-conforming use without a special use permit;
and
WHEREAS, this action is a Type II action under the New York State Environmental
Quality Review Act, which does not require an environmental review,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
refers the special permit application to the Planning Board for a recommendation
back to the Village Board of Trustees.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King explained that according to the application they want to be
able to store personal motor vehicles as well as being able to do some hobby work.
Village Manager King stated that this needs some scrutiny because we do not want
this to turn into an automotive service station.
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 11

Village Attorney Whitehead stated that when we receive more information and at
such time when the Board is ready to approve it, there is going to be some strict
conditions to make sure that what they are representing is what it is going to be.
8. PUBLIC PARTICIPION NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
March 16, 2020 was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on March 30, 2020
was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS
Trustee Horowitz advised that tomorrow evening is April’s “Super Pink” full
moon.
Trustee Gallelli reminded everyone to respond to the “2020 Census”, while
she understands this is a very difficult time to be conducting a nationwide
Census, it is very important, and we must continue to remind everyone to
respond.
Trustee Gallelli stated that as the Croton Point project moves along, we will
be insistent that all construction workers continue to observe all of the
requirements that have to do with the Corona Virus. Trustee Gallelli said that
when this project is completed, we will all benefit from it and be very happy
that we got it done.
Trustee Simmons stated that the restaurants are very appreciative of
everyone’s businesses and encouraged everyone to continue to help the
community in any small way that they can.
Mayor Pugh advised that in light of the circumstances, he has asked Village
Manager King to withdraw her retirement and is pleased to advise that
Village Manager King has agreed to stay until the remainder of her contract
which is through August 2021. Mayor Pugh stated that not only will Village
Manager King get us through this year’s Budget, but she will also be here
through the 2021 Budget. Mayor Pugh stated that if the past is a prologue,
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 12

the 2021 Budget will also be a tough Budget based on our experiences during
the 2008 recession when “Sales Tax Revenue” didn’t reach pre-recession
margins and the collapse in the stock market and investment returns resulted
in higher pension contribution rates
Mayor Pugh encouraged residents to subscribe to the Village’s on-line
newsletter and the Village’s Web Site to keep up on all developments.
Village Manager King stated that she is concerned that kids are climbing over
the fence at “Sunset Park” and using the playground as well as a lot of people
congregating at “Croton Landing”, we need to take social distancing very
seriously and asked the community to please be compliant.
Village Manager King stated that some communities are banning leaf-blowers
which Croton can do under the “Emergency Order”. Village Manager King
stated that she is not suggesting that leaf blowers are blowing the Corona
Virus around, but if it is adding to the stress level of residents since we are all
working from home, she sees no reason why we could not do this. Village
Manager King said that the Village can send out e-mails, post it on Facebook
and reach out to local landscapers to alert them if the Board chooses to do
this.
Village Manager King advised that she is officially cancelling “Summerfest”.
Mayor Pugh thanked members of the Croton EMS, Croton Fire Department
and Croton Police Department for their services during this very difficult time.
Mayor Pugh also sent out a special thank you to “OVAC” (Ossining Volunteer
Ambulance Corps) for making their decontamination services available to
help clean some of our equipment. Mayor Pugh also thanked some of the
local organizations such as the Croton Caring Committee and the
Croton/Cortlandt Foodbank for their outstanding work helping people that are
being affected by the economic consequences as well as a volunteer group
from Croton who are making protective masks.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion seconded by Trustee
Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote. 9:16pm
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 6, 2020
Page 13

__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

13

