VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES FOR THE MEETING OF THE PLANNING BOARD FOR
TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2020
PRESENT: Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
Steve Krisky
Robert Luntz, Chairman
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference meeting to order at
7:07 p.m. The Municipal Building has been closed to the public due to public health
reasons during the Coronavirus pandemic.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Owens, Matthew and Jessica -- 56 Beekman Avenue (Sec. 78.08 Blk. 6 Lot 88) - Application for minor site approval for construction of new single-family
dwelling.
PRESENT: Mark Franzoso, Ed Gemmola, Dan Ciarcia, Jessica and Matt Owen
Mr. Gemmola presented the site plan for the proposed new house: the proposed house is a little
over 5000 square feet on a 15,993 sq. ft. lot. He also pointed out the architectural features and
exterior and interior layout. He noted that an arborist had reviewed the trees that are to be
removed on the property.
The Planning Board asked about the removal of the trees. Mr. Dan Ciarcia, P.E. responded that
two street trees will remain and they are adding three new trees. Some of the trees are a falling
hazard and are leaning against each other, some trees are being removed because the roots
will be impacted by the foundation. The applicant also would like to carve out a little backyard.
Mr. Haynes pointed out that 12 trees were being removed and 10 out of the 12 trees are
healthy, but the applicant is only replacing three of them. The Village Engineer noted that the
site was heavily encumbered by the existing easement and that the village would probably not
want a lot of planting in the easement. Mr. Ciarcia pointed out that many of the trees were
leaning against each other because of the steeper slope, were unsightly, and may be
dangerous to the neighbor next door.

2
Chairman Luntz confirmed that the easement area seemed limited for planting trees and for the
construction of the house and the creation of a small backyard. The Village Engineer noted that
there are still some small trees on the site that provide some canopy.
MOTION: The Planning Board discussed the draft resolution and Mr. Kauderer made a
motion to approve the minor site plan, as amended, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the
motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Wilson, Ryan -- 38 Nordica Drive (Sec. 79.14 Block 1 Lot 5) -- Application for
amendment to Approved Minor Site Plan and application for Steep Slopes permit
for single-family dwelling.
Mr. Jim Moore, and Ms. Christine Hobson, of Jim Moore Associates, Engineering firm, were
present and explained that they had revised the plan from when they had presented previously
since they had seen a lot of boulders on the site. Instead of using reinforced concrete they will
use a redi-rock system.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board’s main concern is to get a construction logistical
sequencing plan that describes the way the construction is going to be done in a way that
protects the neighborhood and the environment, and without major disruption to the neighbors.
Mr. Moore explained some of the construction sequencing based on the recently revised site
plan (S-102) of the overall site plan that had been submitted.
Mr. Kauderer stated that it would be important to obtain a bond for overseeing the construction
so that someone could be on site if the Village Engineer or the Assistant Village Engineer were
not able to be there for several hours a day. The Village Engineer stated that the current bond
does not cover an outside inspector and he and the Assistant Village Engineer have other
inspections and work and would not be able to supervise for several hours a day. The Planning
Board agreed that there should be someone supervising at least at the beginning of the
construction.
Mr. Moore agreed that money put aside in escrow or a bond in case the village needed to have
someone supervise was not an unfair request. He stated that his firm would be present when
they start each phase but were not planning to be there for many hours. He would talk with the
client to see if they are interested. So far the firm has done three inspections of 15 site visits
that are built into their proposal.
The Planning Board members requested that Mr. Moore have a logistical plan in place for the
next meeting. The Planning Board felt that a logistical plan could inform a decision on how
much oversight might be needed by the village at certain points in the construction.

3
Mr. Haynes asked if there was a landscape plan for this site. Mr. Mastromonaco, P.E. stated
that they didn’t have a landscaping plan although he will have a revegetation plan for the next
meeting. Mr. Moore stated that no more trees were being removed, that everything that was
to be cleared had been cleared.
Chairman Luntz stated that a public hearing was not required for the steep slopes permit, and
asked the Planning Board if they wanted to call for a public hearing. Mr. Moore and Ms. Hobson
stated that the lines of disturbance would probably be greater than what had originally been
proposed and agreed that they would revise the plan to reflect this greater disturbance.
After a brief discussion, the Planning Board agreed that asking for a public hearing would not
set the applicant back given that any construction could not really start until mid-May or June.
The Planning Board agreed that a public hearing should be held.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing for April 28th, seconded
by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor by 5-0.
b) Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association--Half Moon Bay Condominiums-Application for Wetlands Permit for proposed Promenade and Revetment
Stabilization plan. Declaration of Lead Agency and referral to Water Control
Commission and the Waterfront Advisory Committee for its review and
recommendation.
Mr. Mastromonaco, P.E. stated that part of the revetment wall was disturbed when the walkway
was being repaired and the HMB HOA needs to re-stabilize the revetment as a result. A
wetlands permit is required for the revetment stabilization plan. It is Mr. Mastromonaco’s
understanding that this repair to the promenade and the revetment is a maintenance project.
The length of the repair runs approximately 600 feet. The type of stone that was originally used
on the promenade is being replaced with the same type of stone.
The Planning Board discussed at length their concern for replacing the stones on the
promenade with the same stones instead of using asphalt/macadam. The Planning Board
pointed out that the Village granted an easement to HMB with the condition that it is open to
village residents. The Planning Board expressed concern that the stones on the promenade
discourages, intentionally so, the use of the walkway by village residents. The Planning Board
members agreed that it is difficult to walk, run and bike on these stones and they should be
replaced with blacktop.
The Village Engineer noted that biking is prohibited on this walkway, it is solely for walking or
running. The key issue is that a change from stone to asphalt for a walking surface is
considered an architectural change that requires a vote from shareholders and it required 70%
of these shareholders to pass it. The Planning Board would need to get a response from the
Half Moon Bay Board to see if this is possible. The Village Engineer also noted that it is not a

4
requirement that the village easement is paved as the HOA is responsible for maintaining the
walk for walking. The stone detail is on the original plans for Discovery Cove.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that the HOA just wanted to put back the stones that were disturbed.
He said he would bring the Planning Board’s request for paving back to the HOA but he thought
the HOA would want to put back the stone because it looks better. The Planning Board would
like to hear what the HOA says in response to the Planning Board’s suggestion for asphalt
paving.
The Planning Board agreed to wait before they referred this Wetlands permit application to the
Waterfront Advisory Committee and the Water Control Commission until the Planning Board
had a better understanding of what the HOA’s response is to the paving idea. Mr. Krisky made a
motion to declare the Planning Board as Lead Agency, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the
motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
Although not a public hearing at this time (a public hearing will be required for the wetland
permit), Chairman Luntz allowed Mr. Doherty, a resident of Half Moon Bay to speak on this
subject. Mr. Doherty stated that his main concern is the Revetment repair. He stated that the
contractor who was repairing the promenade had changed the shape of the riprap and he
expressed concern whether this repair was going to stabilize the riverbank. He wondered aloud
whether the Army Corps of Engineering permitting might be required and questioned whether
the DEC properly looked at the rocks that were pulled up out of the water. He stated that there
had been a substantial amount of erosion this past winter and this erosion occurred with the
stabilization installed. He believes that the paving is a secondary issue.
The Planning Board stated that they did not want to delay the revetment work but they still
wanted to wait to obtain a response from the HOA about the Planning Board’s interest in paving.
4. REFERRALS
a)

34 Brook Street LLC -- 34 Brook Street (Section 78.08 Block 5 Lot 32) -- Referral
from Village Board of Trustees to review and make a recommendation on Special
Permit application to change the non-conforming use on the first floor of the
Property located at 34 Brook Street from office space to two apartments.

Mr. Conte, property owner, stated that Conte Electric had been in this location for many years,
and but the current company that has since owned it has moved. Mr. Conte explained that he
wanted to create two apartments on the first floor that had previously been office space. He
planned to clean up the building and the site so that it would be more attractive and in keeping
with the neighborhood. The parking plan shows 7 parking spaces, with on street parking in front
of the building offers 10 parking spaces, only six are required for a RB district.
Chairman Luntz agreed that residential was a better use but that the building appeared to be in
poor shape and the site could be improved. Mr. Conte stated that he will be cleaning it up and

5
would like to make it more attractive. The Planning Board discussed a few of the items that they
wanted to see addressed (the signage removed, the mold and mildew removed from the
exterior, trash bins relocated, a more orderly parking lot) and the Village Engineer stated that he
was planning to meet with Mr. Conte at the site the following week to discuss a more extensive
list for cleaning up the site.
The Planning Board agreed that the residential use was a more appropriate use in this
neighborhood.
The Planning Board reviewed the goals and objectives as specified in Section 230-53 of the
Village Code. See attached memo which addresses the issues discussed at the meeting.
b) Amelia JT LLC (contract vendee) – 1 Niles Road (Section 68.14 Block 5 Lots 4
and 5) – Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review and make a
recommendation on Special Permit application to change the nonconforming use
from an office/warehouse/garage for conveyor belt repair parts company to a
Motor Vehicle storage workshop with light auto repair of stored vehicles and
office use.
Dan McCarthy, attorney representing John Roper, (Amelia JT LLC, contract vendee), explained
that this location has housed a commercial non-conforming use for over 100 years, and for the
past 40 years, General Splice has been conducting business as a conveyor belts parts
business. Mr. McCarthy asserted that Mr. Roper’s business was a less intense and more
restrictive use than General Splice. He explained that the motor vehicle storage in the garage
would be for Mr. Roper’s antique car collection with light repairs on his vehicles only and the
vehicle storage bays would be for rent. Mr. Roper clarified that it was not his intention to
conduct auto repair, or restoration, just “light repair”. He also maintained that there would be no
storage outside the building.
The Planning Board acknowledged receipt of the letters of support written to the Planning Board
in favor of this application.
The Planning Board however raised some concerns associated with a motor vehicle storage
use, such as: in-ground hydraulic lifts, painting, oil tanks and oil waste, environmental impacts to
the wellfield, and monitoring and enforcement issues especially with bay rentals.
The Planning Board asked if there were any manufacturing equipment left behind. Mr. Roper
said that there was not much left in the buildings except an office. Mr. McCarthy noted that the
contract was subject to an environmental review and the property received a good bill of health.
This report will be forwarded to the Village Engineer.
The Planning Board reviewed the application according to the following goals as stated in
Section 230-58 of the Village Code. See the attached memo which addresses the issues raised
in the meeting.

6

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of February 11, 2020, seconded by Mr.
Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 to 0 (Chairman Luntz abstained as he was not
present at the meeting.)
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

Chairman
ROBERT LUNTZ

Planning Board

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

TO:

Members
BRUCE KAUDERER
STEVEN KRISKY
JOHN GHEGAN
GEOFFREY HAYNES
Attorney
JAMES STAUDT
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees

FROM: Robert Luntz, Chairman of the Planning Board
RE:

34 Brook Street – Special Permit Application

DATE: April 21, 2020
At its regularly scheduled meeting on April 14, 2020, the Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson reviewed the referral from the Village Board regarding the special permit
under section 230-53A(2) of the Zoning Code to change the non-conforming use on the first
floor of the property located at 34 Brook Street from office space to two apartments.
The Planning Board reviewed the application according to the following goals as stated in
Section 230-58 of the Village Code:
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
Brook Street is a village street and therefore this property has been and will be accessible to
fire and police protection.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties
in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The Planning Board agreed that an all-residential use of this building is more in keeping with
the residential nature of the neighborhood than with a commercial business on the first
floor. The Planning Board agreed that a residential use would be an improvement in the
neighborhood. It is also noted that the Village Board recently re-zoned some lots on lower
Brook Street from C-2, General Commercial to RB Two-family residence.
C. The safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of
the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular
account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in
or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The Planning Board noted that lower Brook Street can be problematic with limited traffic
flow due to the narrow road width and cars parked on the street. The proposed use for
residential might make the traffic situation less intensive and may somewhat improve the
traffic situation with less work vehicles in the area.

RE:

34 Brook Street – Special Permit Application

Page 2

D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of
walls and fences and the nature and extend of landscaping on the site with adjacent land
and buildings and their appropriate development.
The Planning Board agreed that the current building is compatible in terms of location and
height; however, the Planning Board recommends that the building and the site be
improved as currently the building appears to be in a deteriorated condition and the site
needs to be cleaned up.
Although the applicant has verbally made it clear that he intends to make improvements,
the Planning Board recommends that the applicant submit a written plan which will outline
the proposed improvements. These improvements shall include but not be limited to:
•
•

•
•
•
•
•

Removal of the conduit storage unit and other debris from the site.
Removal of unsightly trash bins and relocation of the trash/recycling area to the area
that was previously used for the conduit storage rack with a sufficient number and
type of trash/recycling containers (90 gal wheeled) meeting the satisfaction of the
Village Engineer and Superintendent of DPW.
Installation of a chain link fence between the parking and trash/recycling container
areas and the stream channel to prevent litter from entering the stream channel.
Striping of parking layout as per the parking layout diagram included in the
application.
Removal of the current “Conte Electric” signage on the front of the building.
Exterior maintenance to the building which will include removal of mold/mildew,
repainting of building and repairs to gutters.
Repair/replacement of damaged sidewalk sections and repair of wood planter
adjacent to sidewalk.

E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board discussed the stream channel that goes underneath the building and
discharges into the Hudson River. A headwall with trash rack is located adjacent to the
parking area: The trash rack is designed to prevent large debris from entering the culverts
under the buildings however will allow smaller debris to pass through and enter the Hudson
River. Good housekeeping of the parking area and trash and recycling area is required to
prevent litter, floatables and other debris from entering the stream channel and being
discharged into the Hudson River. A chain link fence between the parking area and trash
and recycling area and stream channel is recommended to prevent/reduce litter from
entering the stream channel.
Based upon its review, the Planning Board recommends granting the special permit, with
conditions that address the above-mentioned items, under section 230-53(A)(2) to 34 Brook
Street LLC to convert the commercial space on the first floor into two two-bedroom apartments.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

Chairman
ROBERT LUNTZ

Planning Board
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

TO:

Members
BRUCE KAUDERER
STEVEN KRISKY
JOHN GHEGAN
GEOFFREY HAYNES
Attorney
JAMES STAUDT
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees

FROM: Robert Luntz, Chairman of the Planning Board
RE:

1 Niles Road

DATE: April 17, 2020
At its regularly scheduled meeting on April 14, 2020, the Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson reviewed the referral from the Village Board regarding the special permit
under section 230-53A(2) of the Zoning Code to change from one non-conforming use (General
Splice) to another non-conforming use (vehicle storage/office) in a residential zoning district.
The Planning Board reviewed the application according to the following goals as stated in
Section 230-58 of the Village Code:
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
This property is located on Niles Road, a village street, and is therefore is accessible to
fire and police protection. A fire hydrant connected to a 12” water main is located
directly in front of the property.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties
in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The previous owner of General Splice had a special permit to operate a non-conforming
use in this residential zoning district for many decades; the new proposed nonconforming use is described in the application as:
•
•
•
•
•

Motor vehicle storage of the applicant’s personal vehicles.
Rental of vehicle storage bays on a general long term/seasonal basis to
customers.
Workshop within the garage with light repair of stored vehicles.
Office use, only for applicant’s business activities.
Accompanying general uses consistent with previously permitted activities and
uses

During the Planning Board’s discussion with the applicant and his attorney it was stated
that vehicle repair work would only occur on the applicant’s vehicles and the work

RE:

1 Niles Road

Page 2

would not be major or of any magnitude. The garage bays would be rented to owners of
collectible cars. In the main building there is storage available for 8-10 cars and 4 cars in
the detached garage. There are currently two 275-gallon fuel oil tanks inside the main
building. The building will not be used as a residence.
It was also stated that the use would be for motor vehicle storage of applicant’s
collectible cars and garage bay rentals for other vehicle storage is a less intensive use
than the previous use as a warehouse/garage/office of conveyor belt repair parts
company. The rental bays are solely for automobile storage.
The Planning Board noted that they had received several letters (attached) of support
from neighbors near 1 Niles Road which attested to the character of the applicant and
supported the proposed use.
C. The safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of
the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular
account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in
or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The applicant stated that there would be very little traffic generated in the
neighborhood given that the proposed use is for storage of motor vehicles and light
auto repair. The applicant provided specific business times (Monday through Friday, 9
A.M. to 5 P.M.) which is the same as the hours of the previous owner’s business
(General Splice). Any light auto repair work would be conducted within the interior of
the buildings. The Planning Board agreed that outside storage of vehicles or other
materials would not be permissible under the special permit. The applicant also agreed
that if a tenant wanted to retrieve his vehicle from storage outside of business hours,
being that the applicant lives nearby, he would drive to the site and make sure that the
tenant quickly removed the vehicle. The applicant reiterated that the use is less
intensive and more restrictive than General Splice’s operations.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of
walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land
and buildings and their appropriate development.
The Planning Board agreed that there are no changes in the location or height of
buildings nor are there any changes being proposed for the landscaping or to the site.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board noted that the location of the buildings is near the Village of Crotonon-Hudson’s wellfields and adjacent to the Croton River, and therefore there is to be no
storage of solvents, paint sprays or any other materials in tanks, drums or other
containers greater than approximately five gallons that might impact the land around
the building or the river nearby. The applicant noted that the rental bays are for the
sole purpose of storage of vehicles. There is no manufacturing equipment remaining
Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

RE:

1 Niles Road

Page 3

from the previous owner. The applicant also stated that the contract with the owner
was subject to an environmental review and the property received a good bill of health.
The Planning Board requested that this report be forwarded to the Village Engineer.
The special permit is being requested under section 230-53A(2) of the Zoning Code which
states,
“[Any nonconforming use, except those nonconforming uses specified in Subsection
E may be continued indefinitely, but:] Shall not be changed to another
nonconforming use without a special permit from the Village Board of Trustees and
then only to a use which, in the opinion of said Board, is of the same or a more
restricted nature.”
The Planning Board recommends that a special permit for the requested use could be granted if
sufficient conditions are established to ensure the proposed use is of the same or more
restricted nature. The following conditions are recommended for the Village Board’s
consideration:
1. That, there will be no outside storage, this includes vehicles and any other materials or
items.
2. That, parking for visitors and employees is allowed.
3. That, no below ground hydraulic lifts will be installed, however, above ground lifts inside
the building are permitted.
4. That, any vehicle repair work be limited to “light work” and only on the applicant’s
vehicles.
5. That, any waste oil from oil changes and light repair work will be quickly disposed of and
brought to an approved location such as a service station.
6. That, no spray painting is allowed.
7. That, the use is not for a body shop nor heavy repair work or complete restoration of
cars.
8. That, no storage of any solvents or paints or any other substances/materials that would
impact the land or river nearby are allowed in quantities of greater than five gallons.
9. That, the lease/rental agreements for the garage bays include a restriction that vehicle
repair and maintenance work is not allowed.
10. That the garage bay rentals be for a minimum of approximately 6 months or longer to
avoid issues with short term rentals which would produce a higher turnover and more
disruption to the neighborhood.
11. That the building or any part of it is not to be used as a dwelling.
12. That the “General Splice Corporation” sign be removed within a set time and any new
sign conform to the sign regulations for the RA-25 district.
13. That owners of vehicles renting a bay must make an appointment to pick up their
vehicles during normal business hours Monday – Friday (9-5) unless an emergency.
14. That, the garage bay rentals be limited to non-commercial vehicles, which would
prohibit rental for commercial vehicles and general storage of items or materials.
15. That, no other business other than the applicant’s business operate on the property.
Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

RE:

1 Niles Road

Page 4

It is also recommended that the Village Attorney develop the final wording for any conditions
made part of a special permit.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790


