FINAL Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, January 28th, 2020

Roll Call: P. Dinkler (150), J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), J. O’Leary (231), D. Bennett
(506), M. Feminella (162), J. Streany (275), H. Lockwood (210), D. Vlad (318), R. Cusano
(141), W. Skiba (267), A. Conti (135), K. Goldstein (576)
Department Members: F. Pusatere (248), B. Powers (474), E. Conti (137), J. Donnelly (516),
W. Cerrato (128), R. Capellazzi (126), B. Flynn (173), J. Ghegan (183), F. Streany (274)
Others in Attendance: Mayor B. Pugh, Trustee A. Galelli
Meeting Called to Order by President Dinkler at 20:06: with the Pledge of Allegiance
and a Moment of Silence for Deceased Members.
Special Orders of Business:

None

Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
CARRIED.

Motion: J. Streany/2nd D. Bennett -

Bills and Communications:
•
•
•
•

•
•
•

Letter received from Washington Engine Co. #2 listing elected Officers for 2020
(attached).
Letter received from Columbian Hook & Ladder Co. #1 reporting Richard Leach has
completed school and is no longer on School Leave, effective 1/21/2020 (attached).
Letter received from Columbian Hook & Ladder Co. #1 with minutes of their
10/28/19 Special Meeting, as requested by the Fire Council (attached).
Letter received from Columbian Hook & Ladder Co. #1 inquiring the status of water
cooler installation (attached). Chief Dinkler reports paperwork in process to hire
vendor to complete the work.
Application received from Croton Fire Patrol No. 1 for Active Membership from
Katrina Tucci. Motion D. Vlad / 2nd R. Cusano to approve – CARRIED.
Letter received from Harmon Engine Company No. 3 indicating Spencer Grant
changed his status from Active to Social as of 12/9/19.
Letter received from Ossining FD with information about 2020 WCVFA Convention
they are hosting. Motion J. Streany / 2nd R. Cusano to purchase an ad in the amount
of $150.00 – CARRIED.

Reports of the Chiefs
P. Dinkler (2081)
- Thank you to everyone for their support during the past year, and he looks forward to leading
the department in 2020.
- Thank you to everyone for their participation in recent alarm responses and training.

FINAL Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, January 28th, 2020

J. Munson (2082)
- Thank you for the response to alarms over the past few weeks, it’s been busier.
- T10 is currently at HVFE for routine maintenance and repairs. E119 will go next, followed by
U14, other apparatus to be scheduled following that.
- All apparatus and/or equipment repair requests are to be emailed to him or a Service Request
Ticket can be completed on Department Website. Captains, Lieutenants and Engineers are to
be reporting all issues to him electronically, however urgent matters require a phone call to
him.
- Training in 2019 went well, the Training Division has a lot planned for 2020. Wednesday
evenings will be a department training night each week, as well as periodic weekend and
Monday evening sessions.
- Ice Rescue Class planned this Saturday 2/1, please contact him if attending ASAP.
- Reminder that CO w/ No Symptoms, Water Conditions and a number of other non-emergency
incidents call for a non-emergency response.
J. Karpoff (2083)
- Also thanked members for their support and ongoing efforts.
- Elevator at Station 1 was repaired today.
- Electrical cords in Station 2 Bay were repaired.
- New door being installed at E118’s bay Friday, so E118 & U208 will be relocated.
- Exterior lights and doors repaired at Station 3.
- All issues shall be emailed to him at his CFD email (jkarpoff@crotonfd.org)
Special Reports – None.
Reports of Committees
Parades – H. Lockwood reports band is booked for WCVFA convention parade in Ossining,
parade committee will meet on Monday 2/3 at 19:30 at Harmon – at least 1 member from each
Company asked to attend.
WECO Repairs – J. Streany reports work is 90-95% complete, some work has to wait until
Spring. Issues with gas have delayed generator installation being completed.
Biennial Dinner Dance – J. Streany reports everything is set, each Company is to get him a
list of guests by the next Council meeting. Members will be paid for by Council, guests up to
each Company. (Estimated costs list attached)

FINAL Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, January 28th, 2020

By-Laws – J. Streany reports the committee is working on proposal from Harmon regarding
wording of Alternate Wardens By-Law.
Explorers – R. Cusano reports that he is stepping down as Lead Advisor, need a replacement /
other Advisors.
Audit – B. Powers reports Audit Committee will have their report at next Council Meeting.
Holiday Party – J. Munson reported that 4 members from E118 still haven’t paid for their
guests, 1 member from WECO, 2 members from Harmon and 1 from Hook. It is $20 per guest
from that event.
Big Bucks – D. Vlad asked if we will be doing Big Bucks Raffle this year. Motion D. Vlad / 2nd
A. Conti to request permission from Village to hold said raffle again this year – CARRIED.
Unfinished Business:
K. Goldstein reports she has been ill so the scales that were approved at last meeting for
firehouses haven’t been purchased yet.
J. Streany requested the Investigation Committee review those that held Office for 2019, as it
has been reported some were not qualified to hold said positions. At the direction of the
President, the Investigation Committee will investigate and report their findings at the next
Council Meeting.
New Business:
J. Streany & M. Feminella reported that Washington Engine was unhappy with the Council’s
vote to not allow Chiefs’ Terms up to 3 years, that the vote may not have been done correctly,
and that the Council needs to pursue options for Officers of the Department. A discussion
followed.
J. Streany requested a list of those members whom did not answer 5% of alarms for a second
year in a row, as well as those whom did not complete a physical for the second year in a row
for the next meeting. Secretary Munson will coordinate with Department Secretary.
P. Dinkler reports that all Interior Members should comply with the OSHA “Mask Fit” rule, and
any Officer that sees anyone in violation of it shall address it. As of this point, any member that
is seen wearing an SCBA that is not in compliance with the “Facial Hair Rule” will receive one
warning followed by a suspension if it occurs within a 3 month period.
P. Dinkler reports that letters will be sent to all members in an effort to re-energize a members’
interest in being a member of the CFD, as well as determine the status / intentions of members
that have been absent for a prolonged period. A discussion followed.
P. Dinkler reports that all Interior Firefighters must complete a physical with Partners in Safety
even if they are Career Firefighters, due to the lack of documentation and need to comply with

FINAL Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, January 28th, 2020

new Firefighter Cancer Act. Further, Exterior personnel can continue to get a physical with their
personal Physician, using the department-approved checklist. A discussion followed.
P. Dinkler appointed J. Munson to chair a committee to explore options to help the
department’s operations (including changes to Officers’ requirements, membership, etc.)
Treasurer’s Report:
P. Dinkler reports $60,050.18 in our account. Motion J. Munson/2nd D. Vlad to accept report –
CARRIED.
Motion to Adjourn by J. O’Leary/2nd D. Vlad - CARRIED

Meeting Adjourned at 22:16

Minutes Respectfully Submitted By John Munson, Council Secretary on 1/29/2020.

