FINAL Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Thursday, January 2nd, 2020
(December 2019 Meeting)
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), J. O’Leary (231), M. Feminella (162), J. Streany
(275), H. Lockwood (210), W. Vlad (292), R. Cusano (141), W. Skiba (267), A. Conti (135), K.
Russell-Goldstein (576)
EXCUSED: P. Dinkler (150)
Department Members: T. Dinkler (152), C. Colombo (133), B. Powers (474)
Others in Attendance: None
Meeting Called to Order by J. Munson at 19:03 with the Pledge of Allegiance and a
Moment of Silence for Deceased Members, meeting dedicated to all national Line of Duty
Firefighter Deaths in 2019.
Special Orders of Business:
None
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes: Motion J. Streany / 2nd A. Conti to
accept minutes of 11/26/19. CARRIED
Bills and Communications:
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Letter and check in the amount of $432.85 received from the Town of Cortlandt from
their annual First Responders Golf Outing. J. Munson will forward check to P. Dinkler to
deposit.
Invitation received for the 36th annual VAMPS Bowling Tournament. Copies will be sent
to the five Companies, should anyone be interested.
Letter received from Harmon Engine Company No. 3 listing Officers for 2020, attached.
Request for School Leave from Richard Leach #500 received for 9/1/19 – 6/30/20.
Motion J. Streany/2nd H. Lockwood to approve – CARRIED.
Application for Active Membership with Chemical Engine Company No. 1 received for
Robert Pappas. Motion J. Streany/2nd H. Lockwood to approve – CARRIED.
Letter received from Chemical Engine Company #1 listing Officers for 2020, attached.
Warden Conti advises Fire Patrol will provide a listing of 2020 Officers at the next
Council Meeting.
Letter received from Columbian Hook & Ladder Co. #1 listing Officers for 2020,
attached.
By-Law change proposal received from Harmon Engine Company #3 pertaining to Article
1.0, attached and held for New Business.

FINAL Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Thursday, January 2nd, 2020
(December 2019 Meeting)
Reports of the Chiefs
J. Karpoff (2083)
- Will be assuming role of “House & Grounds Chief.” Emails should continue to be sent to
requests @crotonfd.org.
- Please use his department email – jkarpoff@crotonfd.org – for all Department
correspondence.
- DPW advises the elevator repair company is having trouble finding parts to repair elevator at
Grand Street Firehouse, but they are working on it.
- Some issues with Harmon Firehouse have been reported to him, and he is working on them.
- Meeting with DPW this upcoming Tuesday 1/7/20 to discuss houses, issues, etc.
- He will be assuming the role of Administrator for all members requesting enrollment in courses
at County Fire Training Center.
J. Munson (2082)
- Thanked membership for their efforts and responses to calls, encouraged other members
whom haven’t been as active to please make the effort.
- The fleet is doing well. Some issues with R18 were dealt with or will be dealt with soon. The
new 2083 is at FRWP and being upfitted. Awaiting part to come in to repair T10’s AC
compressor. All Captains have been asked to submit all repair requests to him by Friday
1/3/20.
- The oldest Command Vehicle, now known as Utility 208, is in service at Grand Street
Firehouse. A policy on it’s use will be sent out soon.
- Training schedule for January in the works, should be done soon.
- Thanks C. Colombo for his time, commitment and dedication as Chief the past two years.
- Advises that C. Colombo will be a Deputy Chief, Car 2084.
- Question from T. Dinkler on status of 60 Control CAD interface with our reporting system –
will investigate.
- All Fire Reports are to be turned in on a weekly basis, by the Captains or their designees.
- All repair requests for apparatus and equipment are to be done via email – no exceptions.

FINAL Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Thursday, January 2nd, 2020
(December 2019 Meeting)
Special Reports
C. Colombo thanked the Council for it’s time and efforts the past two years, and extended his
appreciation to the membership for their commitment during his six years as a Chief Officer.
Reports of Committees
Biennial Dinner Dance – J. Streany working on a location and date.
Fund Drive – T. Dinkler reports about $22,516.04 has been received in 2019, and another
$1,050.00 received via PayPal. He expects more donations in coming weeks. A report was
submitted. The 2020 Fund Drive campaign letters will go out to the public in February. All
information is being reviewed soon by the Audit Committee as well.
LOSAP – Everything is on track to get the information in the system and to the Village for
review in February. There will be no committee meeting in January. Members are reminded to
review the reports to assure they are getting the credits they deserve.
Holiday Committee – J. Munson reports Kids Christmas Party on 12/21/19 was a success,
members’ party on 12/13 was a success, there are members that still owe money for their
guests. Thanked all for assistance with another successful Candy Cane Run on 12/22/19.
By-Law Committee – J. Streany advises we should vote on proposed By-Law change to Article 2
pertaining to changing of Chiefs’ Terms from 2 year limit to 3 year limit. Motion J. Streany/2nd
M. Feminella to approve the change as submitted – DEFEATED.
Parade Committee – H. Lockwood reports only three invitations so far, expects more soon.
Committee likely to meet in February.
Unfinished Business:
R. Cusano reports elevator at Grand Street Firehouse has been out of service for a month. J.
Kacrpoff advised him DPW is working on it.
R. Cusano reports they are still awaiting installation of a water cooler, going on many months.
J. Munson asked the Warden of the Ladder Company the status of the Minutes requested by
the Fire Council last month. W. Skiba reports their secretary is handling this request.
New Business:
Motion H. Lockwood/2nd J. Karpoff to send submitted By-Law change from Harmon Engine to
By-Law Committee for review – CARRIED.
K. Russell-Goldstein suggested a “Biggest Loser” weight-loss / health campaign for the
department, and requested up to $125.00 to purchase scales for the three firehouses. Motion
J. Streany/2nd M. Feminella to purchase three scales for up to $125.00 – CARRIED.

FINAL Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Thursday, January 2nd, 2020
(December 2019 Meeting)
New Business (continued):
R. Cusano shared information regarding cellular pricing plan discounts for First Responders from
T-Mobile.
J. Munson questioned the list of elected officers of the Ladder Company, stating the elected
Captain is not eligible due to not being a past Lieutenant of that Company, and he is not an
Interior member going on several years. Additionally, discussion followed from R. Cusano that
the two elected Lieutenants don’t meet their Company By-Laws either. Matter to be discussed
at next Regular Council Meeting.
Treasurer’s Report:
Not in attendance.
Motion to Adjourn by A. Conti / 2nd W. Skiba - CARRIED

Meeting Adjourned at 19:51

Minutes Respectfully Submitted By John Munson, Council Secretary on 1/3/20.

