Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, May 4, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Village Clerk DiSanto
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:02pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHES

Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20192020 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved
with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Habib Aye,
Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$48,954.75
$1,315.35
$245.32
$421,700.30
$3,035.00
-

3.

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none

4.

PRESENTATION by Norma Drummond, Westchester County Planning
Commissioner, on the “Westchester County Housing Needs Assessment
Study”. To view the presentation, log onto the following Web-Site: https://
view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=787 and click Presentations.

5.

CORRESPONDENCE
a. E-mail from Lindsay Audin, Chair of the “Sustainability Committee”
requesting approval for “Ecogy” to perform an inter-connection study
at Croton Landing and Senasqua Park.
Lindsay Audin advised that the Village has an opportunity to look at
installing solar systems at Croton Landing and Senasqua Park. Mr.
Audin stated that a “CESIR” study (coordinated electric system

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 4, 2020
Page 2

interconnection review) would be required and could take three to six
months to complete and recommended that, since the study is at no
cost to the Village, we begin the study to determine if it is even
feasible to connect to Con-Edison’s lines.
Trustee Simmons asked what these would look like.
Mr. Audin explained that the canopies would look like a slightly tilted
roof over the parking lots, heights range from a minimum height of
fourteen feet to a maximum height of twenty-one feet; the panels
would collect the energy and, because it is community solar, create
revenue back to the Village.
Village Manager King stated that she has concerns about the
aesthetics of putting solar canopies on parkland along the river but
since this does not commit the Village, she will sign it if the Board
agrees.
Mayor Pugh said that this agreement just indicates that we are
working with them at this time and does not grant or convey any
interest in the property.
Trustee Simmons asked Mr. Audin if he has looked at doing this at
the train station.
Mr. Audin stated that we did, but it is a much bigger project and the
electrical connections are different, but eventually a study could be
done there as well.
Mayor Pugh stated that the revenues for these two locations would
be less than the revenues generated at the DPW site; but it would be
useful in terms of public education since the visibility of solar energy
systems could encourage other people to install them.
Mr. Audin explained that even though they are a comparable size in
terms of total solar panels, canopies cost a lot more to build then
something that is put on a rooftop so the amount of revenue you get
back would be less because the vendor is putting up a lot more
money to build it.

2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 4, 2020
Page 3

A resolution authorizing the Village Manager to sign the “Consent
Forms” with “Ecogy” to perform a “Study” to determine the feasibility
of installing solar canopies at Senasqua Parking and Croton Landing
was approved with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye,
Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor
Pugh Aye.
b. Letter from the “New York State Congressional Delegation” to leaders
of Congress dated April 15, 2020 regarding direct distribution of
Federal funding to local governments to offset the loss of revenues
due to the COVID-19 Pandemic.
6.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #66 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Habib Aye,
Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request for a special use permit from John
Roper, owner of 1 Niles Road, to change from a non-conforming use to another nonconforming use; and
WHEREAS, the existing non-conforming use is a manufacturing business and the
proposed non-conforming use is a storage facility for personal vehicles; and
WHEREAS, on April 6, 2020, the Board of Trustees referred the special use permit
request to the Planning Board as required by law; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed the request and has submitted a memo in
support of the application,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on May 18, 2020, at 6 PM to consider the request for a
special use permit from John Roper, owner of 1 Niles Road, to change from a nonconforming use to another non-conforming use; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 4, 2020
Page 4

Resolution #67 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request for a special use permit from Victor
Conte, owner of 34 Brook Street, to change from a non-conforming use to another
non-conforming use, and
WHEREAS, the existing non-conforming use is an electrical contracting business and
the proposed non-conforming use is two residential apartments, and
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020, the Board of Trustees referred the special use permit
request to the Planning Board as required by law; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed the request and has submitted a memo in
support of the application,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on May 18, 2020, at 6 PM to consider the request for a
special use permit from Victor Conte, owner of 34 Brook Street, to change from a
non-conforming use to another non-conforming use; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #68 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request for a special use permit from David M.
Christensen, owner of 85-87 Grand Street, to change from a non-conforming use to
another non-conforming use, and
WHEREAS, the existing non-conforming use is a professional office and the
proposed non-conforming use is two residential apartments, and
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 4, 2020
Page 5

WHEREAS, on April 27, 2020, the Board of Trustees referred the special use permit
request to the Planning Board as required by law; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed the request and has submitted a memo in
support of the application,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on May 18, 2020, at 6 PM to consider the request for a
special use permit from David Christensen, owner of 85-87 Grand Street, to change
from a non-conforming use to another non-conforming use; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #69 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, local governments are experiencing a loss of revenues due to the
slowdown in the economy as a result of the COVID-19 response; and
WHEREAS, local governments are responsible for maintaining essential services
such as police, fire protection, sanitation, drinking water, and wastewater disposal
services; and
WHEREAS, the loss of revenues to local governments threaten the provision of
these essential services that local governments must provide the public to maintain
public health and safety; and
WHEREAS, the United States Congress is considering providing additional aid to
Americans through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act;
and
WHEREAS, a Bipartisan Congressional Delegation from New York State has
requested federal financial assistance be provided through the CARES ACT directly
to local governments to offset the loss of local revenues necessary to maintain
essential services; and
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 4, 2020
Page 6

WHEREAS, the Congressional Delegation has requested that the Governors of each
state certify that such funds will not be used to supplant or reduce direct financial
assistance currently provided to local governments,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Croton-on-Hudson Village Board of
Trustees hereby supports the New York State’s Bipartisan Congressional
Delegation’s request for federal funding directly to local governments to offset the
loss of revenues due to the COVID-19 Pandemic.
7.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on April 27, 2020
as amended was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on April 27,
2020 was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
8.

REPORTS

Trustee Gallelli encouraged residents to complete the Census and asked that
everyone continue to observe the rules for social distancing and to stay well.
Mayor Pugh advised that he had the honor of officiating a wedding last week
of a former classmate, he is glad that people are willing to dream of the
future and make commitments to each other during these difficult times.
Mayor Pugh thanked all those that volunteered to help with food distribution
during the “Feeding Westchester” event at the Croton Harmon Parking lot;
despite the fact that it was drizzling, we had a robust attendance which goes
to the depth of the need that we are seeing.
Village Manager King advised that the “New York Blood Center” is working on
setting up weekly or bi-weekly blood drives in the Community Room, all social
distancing guidelines will be observed.
Village Manager King advised that she had a discussion with the “PVC”
Principal and the Police Chief regarding a teacher vehicle procession and will
have more information once the plans are finalized.

6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 4, 2020
Page 7

There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting and enter into an Executive Session to discuss the
proposed acquisition, sale or lease of real property on Hollis Lane was made
by Trustee Horowitz; the motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and
approved with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
7:03pm.
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

7

