Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, May 18, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Village Clerk DiSanto
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHES

Trustee Simmons made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20192020 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved
with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Habib Aye,
Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund
3.

$82,878.15
$3,689.60
$3,027.91
$77,791.61
$6,530.40
-

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
E-mail from residents advising that they witnessed a trailer of kayaks at
“Echo Canoe Launch” a couple of times. Village Manager King stated
that it is possible that whoever is bringing that trailer may be renting the
kayaks out and she has asked that if anyone sees this again to try to get
the plate number so that we can do a little more research.
E-mail from the Co-Founders of the “Friends of the Croton Gorge Unique
Area” summarizing what was previously sent to the Board regarding
supporting Assemblywoman Galef’s request that the “Unique Area” be
closed and suggestions on how to manage it.
Trustee Gallelli stated that we were counting on the “Stewards Program”
but since the program is not going to be in action until late June we will
have to wait and see what happens.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 2

Mayor Pugh asked Village Manager King’s opinion on Mr. DePass’
suggestion about paying for parking by the “Echo Canoe Launch”.
Village Manager King stated that during the months of July and August we
do not allow parking; we can continue to have a presence down there or
we can try to use meters but since this is a policy change the Board may
want to ask the “Recreation Advisory Committee” to look at this as well.
Village Manager King stated that one of the reasons she had wanted
“Hudson River Kayak” to remain is because they did have a presence and
in that sense they were controlling it, now we only have a Park Ranger
and Police Officers going down there occasionally.
4.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
Public Hearing #1
A motion to open a Public Hearing to hear comments to consider issuing
a “Special Permit” for 1 Niles Road for a change of use from a nonconforming use to another non-conforming use was made by Trustee
Gallelli. Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0
vote.
Daniel McCarthy, attorney representing the applicant, advised that the
applicant intends on storing his own antique cars as well as renting out
the other garage bays to other antique or unique car owners; the
applicant will do minor repairs on his vehicles, but no work will be done
outside of the garages or storage of any materials outside of the
buildings, the applicant intends on improving the aesthetics of the
outside of buildings but no other changes to the buildings will be done.
Mr. McCarthy added that the garages will be for long term rentals only.
Mr. McCarthy referred to the Planning Board’s letter dated April 17, 2020.
To view the Planning Board’s memo, click on the following link. file:///C:/
Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/PB_memo_on_special_permit_to_VB
_2020_1_Niles_FINAL%20(1).pdf.
Kyron Huigens, 1 Dailey Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that no business
is appropriate and working on vehicles sounds more like a garage rather
than a storage unit and that is not appropriate for this neighborhood. Mr.
Huigens asked if the vehicles will be visible from the road, how many
vehicles will be stored, and what are the aesthetic improvements.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 3

Mr. McCarthy stated that this is not going to be a repair shop and no work
will be done outside of the garages, the garages can hold up to twelve
vehicles. Mr. McCarthy stated that this property has been operated as a
commercial use for one-hundred years; the current use has been
reasonably passive, and the proposed use will be less intense than what
has been used there in the past.
Mr. Huigens stated that it may have been used as a commercial property
one-hundred years ago, but he has lived there eighteen years and there
has never been a business there and most recently someone has been
living there and feels that this would be a significant change to what is
currently going on. Mr. Huigens asked if there is going to be a guarantee
that no vehicles will be sitting around under tarps in the future.
Mr. McCarthy stated that there will be no storage of any vehicles outside
of the garages and no outdoor repairs.
Trustee Gallelli stated that as the liaison to the Planning Board she
attended the meeting where this was discussed, the Planning Board went
over all the questions that have been raised this evening and in their
letter of recommendation to the Board it is their opinion that this would
be a less intensive use than what was currently approved. To view the
Planning Board’s memo dated April 17, 2020, click on the following Link.
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/PB_memo_on_special_perm
it_to_VB_2020_1_Niles_FINAL%20(1).pdf.
Trustee Habib stated that he has done some research of the permitted
uses and believes that this is a good step forward; there will be tight
restrictions and scrutiny that would apply during the three year period
and certainly during the renewal process and is in favor of moving
forward.
Trustee Simmons asked if chemicals could leach into the River.
Mr. McCarthy stated that this was also discussed with the Planning Board
and stated that no chemicals will be stored outside, no work on any
vehicles will be done outside of the building and in no way would it
impact the environment.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that one of the conditions specifically
recommended by the Planning Board and incorporated into the resolution
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 4

is that there will not be any chemicals or activities that would impact the
stream.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #70 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request for a special use permit from Amelia
J.T. LLC with John Roper as principal of 1 Niles Road, to change from a nonconforming use to another non-conforming use; and
WHEREAS, the existing non-conforming use is a manufacturing business and the
proposed non-conforming use is a storage facility for personal vehicles; and
WHEREAS, on April 6, 2020, the Board of Trustees referred the special use permit
request to the Planning Board as required by law; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed the request and has submitted a memo in
support of the application; and
WHEREAS, on May 18, 2020, a public hearing was opened and closed,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
issues a special use permit to Amelia J.T. LLC with John Roper as principal of 1 Niles
Road, to operate a storage facility for personal vehicles and business offices,
subject to the following conditions:
1. That the special permit shall be valid for a period of three years, from May
19, 2020, until May 19, 2023.
2. That there will be no outside storage, including, but not limited to, vehicles,
equipment, and supplies and any other materials or items.
3. That parking for visitors and employees shall be off-street on the property.
4. That no below ground hydraulic lifts will be installed, however, above ground
lifts inside the building are permitted.
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 5

5. That any vehicle repair work be limited to “light work” and only on the
applicant’s vehicles.
6. That, any waste oil from oil changes and light repair work will be quickly
disposed of and brought to an approved location such as a service station.
7. That no spray painting is allowed.
8. That the use is not for a body shop nor heavy repair work or complete
restoration of cars.
9. That no storage of any solvents or paints or any other substances/materials
that would impact the land or river nearby are allowed in quantities of greater
than five gallons.
10.That the lease/rental agreements for the garage bays include a restriction
that vehicle repair and maintenance work is not allowed.
11.That the garage bay rentals be for a minimum of approximately 6 months or
longer to avoid issues with short-term rentals which would produce a higher
turnover and more disruption to the neighborhood.
12.That the building or any part of it is not to be used as a dwelling.
13.That the “General Splice Corporation” sign be removed within a set time and
any new sign conform to the sign regulations for the RA-25 district.
14.That owners of vehicles renting a bay must make an appointment to pick up
their vehicles during normal business hours Monday – Friday (9-5) unless an
emergency.
15.That the garage bay rentals be limited to non-commercial vehicles, which
would prohibit rental for commercial vehicles and general storage of items or
materials.
16.That no other business other than the applicant’s business operate on the
property.
Public Hearing #2
A motion to open a Public Hearing to hear comments to consider issuing
a “Special Permit” for 34 Brook Street for a change of use from office to
multi-family was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #71-2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 6

New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request for a special use permit from Victor
Conte, owner of 34 Brook Street, to change from a non-conforming use to another
non-conforming use, and
WHEREAS, the existing non-conforming use is an electrical contracting business and
the proposed non-conforming use is an addition of two apartments, making it a
multi-family residential building, and
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020, the Board of Trustees referred the special use permit
request to the Planning Board as required by law; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed the request and has submitted a memo in
support of the application; and
WHEREAS, on May 18, 2020, a public hearing was opened and closed,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
issues a special use permit for Victor Conte, owner of 34 Brook Street, to convert
the first-floor commercial space into two residential apartments, making it a multifamily residential building, subject to the following conditions:
1. That, the special permit shall be contingent on the applicant receiving site
plan approval from the Planning Board.
2. That the applicant complete the improvements outlined in his April 21, 2020,
and April 29, 2020, memos to the Village Board.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simmons asked if the electrical company is moving and assumes that
parking has been taken under consideration.
Village Engineer Dan O’Connor advised that Mr. Conte sold the electrical business a
number of years ago and the new owner has moved to another community and has
vacated the first floor.
Village Manager King stated that they will park on site.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Planning Board agreed that this was in keeping with the
residential neighborhood; the Board also recently re-zoned some lots on lower
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 7

Brook Street from “General Commercial” to “Two Family Residence”. Mayor Pugh
stated that we have an acute housing shortage in Westchester County as well as in
Croton and supports the creation of additional multi-housing.
Public Hearing #3
A motion to open a Public Hearing to hear comments to consider issuing
a “Special Permit” for 85-87 Grand Street for a change of use from
office to multi-family was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #72 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request for a special use permit from David M.
Christensen, owner of 85-87 Grand Street, to change from a non-conforming use to
another non-conforming use, and
WHEREAS, the existing non-conforming use is a professional office and the
proposed non-conforming use is a multi-family residential building; and
WHEREAS, on April 27, 2020, the Board of Trustees referred the special use permit
request to the Planning Board as required by law; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed the request and has submitted a memo in
support of the application; and
WHEREAS, on May 18, 2020, a public hearing was opened and closed,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
issues a special use permit for David M. Christensen, owner of 85-87 Grand Street,
to convert the first-floor commercial space into two residential apartments, making
it a multi-family residential dwelling.
DISCUSSION:
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 8

Trustee Horowitz asked what was the original zoning?
Village Manager King stated that the zoning is “RB” (two family)
Trustee Gallelli stated that on the adjacent property to the west there is a legal six
apartment building, across the street is the Van Wyck apartments which has
approximately 50 apartments; and believes this is consistent with the neighborhood
and that the lot size is capable of handling this kind of parking requirement.
5.

CORRESPONDENCE
a. E-mail from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated May 1, 2020
updating the Board on membership changes in the Croton on Hudson
Fire Department.
b. Village Manager King asked that the Board to take a look at the
resolution dated May 3, 1993 regarding “Special Permits”
for
“Outdoor Dining” and/or “Displays”. Village Manager King stated
that this may be something the Board may want to discuss in a Work
Session.
c. Copy of a letter Assemblywomen Sandra Galef sent to the “New York
State Department of Environmental Conservation” requesting the
temporary closure of the “Croton River Gorge Unique Area”.
d. E-mail from Raul and Claudia Castro of 152 Old Post Road South
asking if Old Post Road South could be included in the “no-parking”
on weekends regulations.
Village Manager King advised that the “no parking” restrictions take
effect Memorial Day weekend and she would like to see how this
impacts the neighborhoods of Truesdale, Nordica and Cedar before
we go ahead and increase any kind of no parking. Village Manager
King stated that she has received a couple of questions from
residents asking what happens when they have guests that cannot
be accommodated in their driveway and we are going to have to
address this one by one.
Mayor Pugh stated that it does makes sense to see the impact of the
current changes but if the side affects of our policy do emerge which
is that people will move to Old Post Road South to park then we need
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 9

to be in a position to move quickly and adopt a weekend restriction in
that area as well.
6.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #73 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village is desirous of replacing the existing Engine 118, which has 25
years of service for the Croton-on-Hudson Volunteer Fire Department; and
WHEREAS, on December 17, 2018, the Village awarded the bid for one 2018 Triple
Combination Pumper (Bid #06-2018) to Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the amount of $829,885; and
WHEREAS, continuing discussions with the manufacturer has led to Change Order 3
being drafted, with a contract credit amount of $4,826.13; and
WHEREAS, as this is the sixth change order to date on this purchase, the change will
result in a net total credit of $11,309.96 to the Village,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to sign Change Order 3 with Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the credit amount of $4,826.13.
Resolution #74 of 2020 - Tabled
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was put forth for adoption.
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019, the Village Board approved a bond resolution in
the amount of $408,000, for architectural services for renovation of the Police
Department; and
WHEREAS, the Village’s architectural firm for the project, Peter Gisolfi Associates,
has selected Barile Gallagher & Associates (BGA) of Pleasantville, New York, to
serve as contractor for engineering services for technology infrastructure and
security power installation; and
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 10

WHEREAS, BGA has submitted a proposal for developing the schematic design,
design development and construction documents in the amount of $20,150,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to accept the proposal from Barile Gallagher & Associates in the amount of $20,150
for the schematic design, design development and construction documents, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that this amount should be charged to capital account
H3120.2102.09193.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that we approved the overall design for this project, and
these are the individual pieces that have to be done to complete that project which
has already been funded.
Trustee Habib asked if all expenditures concerning this project can be put on hold
until we have a Work Session to discuss the viability of the project. Trustee Habib
stated that he would like to see research done on alternatives for Police services
and would like to get a proposal from Westchester County and New York State so
that we can carefully review all options on how we can support public safety in
Croton.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she understands where Trustee Habib is coming from
and does not necessarily disagree with that, but since this is basically a design
effort that we have funded she thinks that we should not leave it in limbo and we
should get the whole thing completed and then we would be in a better position to
evaluate the kinds of things that Trustee Habib is suggesting.
Mayor Pugh asked Manager King how much of the Bonding remains and how much
has already been used.
Village Manager King stated that if these three resolutions were to be approved it
would bring the total to $333,260.
Mayor Pugh asked if we anticipate additional professional services in relation to the
design process.
Village Manager King stated that because we put the renovation on hold this would
be it, we are not approving any proposals for bid assistance and review and this is
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 11

why the number is less than the $400,000, the amounts that we are approving this
evening is only for the sub-contractors’ bidding assistance. Village Manager King
stated that once we approve these, we would have a complete set of construction
documents that would enable us to potentially go out to bid. Village Manager King
explained that if the money is not spent and we close the “Capital” account that
money goes back to the “Debt Service Fund”.
Mayor Pugh stated that we are not going to make any decisions right now regarding
the project; but he is in favor of moving forward with the design portion since we
have already committed a fair amount to the design process.
Trustee Gallelli stated that if we were going to move forward with Trustee Habib’s
desire to have this evaluation, we would be in a sounder position if we had this work
done and we would then know exactly what we were facing and since it has already
been approved and funded she would be in favor of going forward.
Trustee Habib stated that the past approvals may have been granted without taking
all the necessary steps to evaluate all reasonable appropriate options and feels that
we should stop it now.
Trustee Simmons asked how much of a delay are we talking about.
Village Manager King said that she does not have an exact estimate and does not
know if the County and the State, given the COVID pandemic, would be able to
respond in a timely manner. Village Manager King said that it could take up to six
months.
Trustee Horowitz asked what Trustee Habib anticipates we could find out if we stop
now and did some research.
Trustee Habib stated that the Village would still be responsible for some
infrastructure improvements if we went into an agreement with either the County or
State, but we do not know exactly what that would be and understands that the
research may take months but he knows where to start and how to move forward to
get those answers to help us properly evaluation all those options. Trustee Habib
stated that it serves the Police force most because in many ways the jobs that
would be created under an Inter-Municipal Agreement are deemed to be promotions
in many ways. Trustee Habib stated that we are operating in vacuum because of a
lack of information and is confident that we would be carrying out our duties to the
Village if we evaluated these options.
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 12

Trustee Gallelli stated that going forward with what we have in the resolutions
tonight does not put aside Trustee Habib’s recommendation and feels that we
should complete what we have already committed to so that we have a full
substantiated design and costs that would put us in a better position to evaluate
what Trustee Habib is suggesting.
Village Manager King said that she believes Trustee Habib is making the point that
depending on which option we go with; the renovation design could look different.
Trustee Gallelli said that it could be, but we would have a solid comparison.
Trustee Simmons stated that some of the things that are being proposed tonight
such as asbestos removal would have to be done anyway no matter what the
circumstances are.
Village Manager King stated that the asbestos removal issue would only have to be
done if we started construction. Village Manager King stated that the original idea
was to just postpone the project in this fiscal year and to wait and see if the
economy came back. Village Manager King stated that she does not believe we can
do this piecemeal, we either push forward and approve all three or we stop it; the
Board has to decide whether they want to see a finished product which was
designed by Gisolfi and Associates in conjunction with the Police Chief as to what
they thought was the best solution for managing public safety in this Village.
Village Manager King stated that this is what she was hearing from the Board and
this is why we told Gisolfi to push forward.
Trustee Gallelli asked what the downside would be for postponing this.
Village Manager King stated that we have purchase orders that were issued to
Gisolfi and others that have already been approved over the past few months that
supposedly we are committed to; we asked them to do the work and the Board
would have to decide if we wanted to get out of those contracts.
Trustee Gallelli asked if that was an exposure to the Village.
Village Manager King stated that if you stop a contract there is no guarantee that
the next time you ask them to go ahead the fees would not be higher than what
they are now. Village Manager King stated that she believes this is more about
whether or not the majority of the Board is committed to thinking that we need our
own Police Department and if we want control over it rather than having the County
or the State having control and it is purely a policy decision. Village Manager King
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 13

reminded the Board that we are going to be talking about the Croton River and how
we enforce that and we are going to be dependent on our Police to do all of that and
we all know that the Town is not getting the same kind of support from the State
Police that Croton residents are getting from the Croton Police.
Trustee Habib stated that he disagrees that we will be condemned to lesser service
especially if we move to a contract that requires “best in class” service in our
jurisdiction. Trustee Habib stated that we are already paying County taxes and we
are already paying a price for having a distance between Croton and the County
Police whenever a serious crime occurs in Croton, we have the duty to give our
Police force to give them “best in class” facilities, but can we really afford it and we
should have done a cost analysis of all three options in 2019. Trustee Habib stated
that if we find no other better option then he is in favor of renovating the municipal
building.
Trustee Simmons stated that he prefers to not make a decision right now and
suggested getting someone from Mount Kisco to speak with us to explain how it has
worked for them.
Mayor Pugh asked Village Manager King to see if they can hold their prices.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that we can take a look at the contracts to see
what the affect is if we delay the job, there may be a provision that if you delay it
for a certain period of time, they don’t have to hold their price, but we have to go
back and look.
Village Manager King asked if we are talking about the ones on the agenda this
evening or the ones that we currently have contracts with.
Mayor Pugh stated all of them.
Village Manager King said that if we are talking about reaching out to Gisolfi, that is
one thing, but we can’t ask these new companies to hold their prices because they
do not know what the state of the industry will be when you are ready to go
forward, if they are busy, the prices could be higher and if they are not the prices
could be lower.
Trustee Gallelli said that we should move this discussion to a Work Session and put
these resolutions off until we can further discuss.

13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 14

On motion by Trustee Habib and seconded by Trustee Simmons the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson tabled Resolutions #74, #75 and #76.
The motion was approved with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
Resolution #75 of 2020 - Tabled
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019, the Village Board approved a bond resolution in
the amount of $408,000, for architectural services for renovation of the Police
Department; and
WHEREAS, the Village’s lead architectural firm for the project, Peter Gisolfi
Associates, has selected RPL Architects of Toronto, Canada, to provide architectural
services relating to police specialty areas; and
WHEREAS, RPL Architects has submitted a proposal for its contributions during the
design development and construction documents phases in the amount of $23,000,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to accept the proposal from RPL Architects in the amount of $23,000 for the design
development and construction documents phases, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that this amount should be charged to capital account
H3120.2102.09193.
Resolution #76 of 2020 - Tabled
WHEREAS, on October 21, 2019, the Village Board approved a bond resolution in
the amount of $408,000, for architectural services for the design of the renovation
of the Police Department; and
WHEREAS, the Village’s lead architectural firm for the project, Peter Gisolfi
Associates, has selected Adelaide Environmental Health Associates (Adelaide) of
Brewster, New York, to provide asbestos abatement services; and
WHEREAS, Adelaide has submitted a proposal for the asbestos abatement project
design in the amount of $4,950,

14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 15

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to accept the proposal from Adelaide Environmental Health Associates in the
amount of $4,950 for the asbestos abatement project design, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that this amount should be charged to capital account
H3120.2102.09193.
Resolution #77 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a special permit renewal application from
Verizon Wireless for a colocation of the personal wireless services facility located at
26 Veterans Plaza in the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, and
WHEREAS, the initial special permit was issued in 2010, and was renewed in 2015,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on June 1, 2020 at 6 PM to consider the special permit renewal
application from Verizon Wireless; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #78 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Diversity & Inclusion Committee was established in November 2018
by the Board of Trustees to serve as an advisory body to develop and implement
programs designed to create a spirit of diversity and inclusion for all that live, work
in, and visit the Village of Croton-on-Hudson; and
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 16

WHEREAS, the committee has proposed a calendar of diversity celebrations which
can be recognized by the Village throughout the year,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
officially recognizes the following days/months:
February: African-American History Month
March: National Women’s History Month, Irish-American Heritage Month and
National Deaf History Month (March 13 to April 15)
April: Diversity in Action Month
May: Asian Pacific-American Heritage Month, Older Americans Month and
Jewish-American Heritage Month
June: Gay & Lesbian Pride Month and Juneteenth (June 19)
September: National Hispanic-Latino Heritage Month (September 15 to
October 15)
October: National Disability Employment Awareness Month and National
Italian-American Heritage Month
November: National American Indian Heritage Month
December: International Migrants Day (December 18)
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that these days/months shall be commemorated
throughout the Village by appropriate measures, including, but not limited to,
programs, events and activities hosted by the Diversity & Inclusion Committee.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib stated that remembrances like this go a long way and thanked the
volunteers for putting this together.
Mayor Pugh thanked the Committee for their efforts in putting this together.
Resolution #79 of 2020
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 17

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 191 of the Village Code, Sewers,
to reflect the sending of sewer bills via email; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on June 1, 2020, at 6 PM to consider Local Law Introductory No.
4 of 2020 to amend Chapter 191 of the Village Code entitled “Sewers”,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #80 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on June 4, 2018, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson awarded a contract for
cleaning services for Village-owned buildings to NSI Clean of Middletown, New York,
and
WHEREAS, such contract will expire on May 31, 2020, and
WHEREAS, due to the emergency conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic,
Village buildings are closed to the public and social distancing rules must be
adhered to, and
WHEREAS, in order to solicit new bids for the cleaning contract potential bidders
would need to visit and walk through the buildings which is not currently permitted
due to the public emergency making it not possible for the Village to solicit new bids
at this time, and

17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 18

WHEREAS, General Municipal Law Section 103(4) allows for the Board to let a
contract without public bidding where necessary due to a public emergency arising
out of an unforeseen occurrence or condition,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
extends the contract of NSI Clean for cleaning services for Village-owned buildings
for a period of six months on the same terms and conditions as the current contract
price of $3,276 per month.
Resolution #81 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 172 of the Village Code,
Commercial Soliciting, to allow vendors the use of public streets on a license basis;
and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on June 1, 2020, at 6 PM to consider Local Law Introductory No.
5 of 2020 to amend Chapter 172 of the Village Code, Commercial Soliciting, AND
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #82 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Habib Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on May 7, 2020, the Village published an Invitation to Bid #2-2020 for
the 2020 lawn maintenance program, and

18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 19

WHEREAS, on May 18, 2020, the Village received four bids for the 2020 lawn
maintenance program, which includes spring cleanup, mowing and trimming for
selected Village parks, fields, and other properties, and fall cleanup, and
WHEREAS, the low bidder was La Teja Contractors and Landscaping, Inc., of
Ossining, New York, in the amount of $44,530; and
WHEREAS, Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, has checked references and
recommends that the bid be awarded to La Teja Contractors and Landscaping, Inc.,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to award the bid for the Village’s lawn maintenance program to La Teja Contractors
and Landscaping, Inc., in the amount of $44,530, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for this program is available in Account
A7110.4000.
7.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
May 4, 2020 as amended was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote.
8.

REPORTS

Trustee Horowitz encouraged residents to take advantage of our beautiful
now that the weather has gotten nice; trail maps can be accessed through
the Village’s Web Site. Trustee Horowitz advised that the deadline to send in
a snapshot for the Recreation Department’s “Lego Challenge” is May 26 th.
Trustee Gallelli reminded everyone to complete the Census, Croton is doing
very well with a response rate of over 75%. Trustee Gallelli stated that she
has spoken with the High School Principal, Laura Dubak, today about
graduation plans, they are not ready to announce anything at this time, but
she has assured Ms. Dubak that the Village will certainly support whatever
reasonable plans they have. Trustee Gallelli advised that on Mondays;
Wednesdays and Fridays the Recreation Department beginning at 10:00am
on Channel 78 is holding an exercise program.
Trustee Habib stated that the Business Development Committee has been reenergized by Matthew Rubinstein as the new Chair; and the Croton Business
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 20

Council is trying to re-galvanize a Croton Chamber of Commerce and they are
working on a kick-off event.
Mayor Pugh reminded everyone that the Primary Election will be held on June
23rd, the “Westchester County Board of Elections” has sent out Absentee
Ballot Applications, Applications must be completed and returned to the
“Westchester County Board of Elections”.
Mayor Pugh stated that we are doing everything that we can to control
access to the Croton Dam and the Village continues to put a lot of money
towards maintaining public health and safety along the River on the Croton
side. Mayor Pugh stated that he along with the Supervisors of the Towns of
Cortland and Ossining sent a letter to the State requesting that the area be
temporarily closed but we are still awaiting a response from them; the County
has put more resources up as well and so far they have towed ten illegally
parked cars and issued tickets and we hope that these enforcement actions
continue when the demand increases; the Town of Cortlandt will also be
putting up electronic signs on the Town side telling people not to park along
the roadway; and we will continue to reach out to the “New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation” to see if we can get them to
take action on these issues.
Village Manager King advised that she received a report from the Police Chief
highlighting some of the actions that they will be taking to control the River
that include increasing patrols this holiday weekend and supplementing the
force with additional Park Rangers, deploying the Police boat on the Croton
River, creating temporary no parking zones along Route 129, improve parking
issues at Black Rock Park and Silver Lake Park, and continue to take
proactive steps to deter parking along certain areas of Truesdale Drive,
Nordica Drive and Cedar Lane during weekends. Village Manager King stated
that the Chief’s letter will be e-mailed to residents.
Village Manager King stated that since the Board approved the “Capital Plan”,
we will need to make a final decision on whether the funds will be Bonded or
taken out of our “Fund Balance”. Village Manager King stated that because
our “Fund Balance” might possibly be at risk due to lost revenues, she
recommends Bonding the entire amount ($2,315,811). Village Manager King
stated that our Financial Advisors indicated that “Moodys” would be looking
more at our “Fund Balance” and our loss of “Non-Tax Revenues” rather than
our Bonding. Village Manager King said that if the Board is in agreement, she
20

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 18, 2020
Page 21

will ask our Bonding Counsel to prepare Bond Resolutions for the first
meeting of June.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Capital Market Advisors’ latest Newsletter is
reporting that Village’s with “AA” Ratings are receiving interest rates below
two percent on fifteen-year Bonds. Mayor Pugh stated that because of the
pause we have limited parking revenues and the need to have more cash on
hand to deal with any contingencies is important.
Trustee Gallelli stated that in this environment she agrees that the number
one thing is to protect our “Fund Balance”, the coming years are
unpredictable and are not going to be pretty.
Mayor Pugh asked the Board if they were in consensus with the Manager’s
recommendation, the Board agreed unanimously.
Village Manager King advised that they will be recording a “Memorial Day”
ceremony in advance of “Memorial Day” and it will be streamed live on
Memorial Day.
Village Manager King advised that a Blood Drive will be held in the
Community Room on June 11th and June 18th, it will be by appointment only
and they have assured us that they will be able to abide by all the social
distancing regulations.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simmons; the motion was seconded
by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:48pm.
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

21

