Minutes of the
Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on
Wednesday, February 12, 2020
Present:

ABSENT:

Christine Wagner, Chairman
Doug Olcott
Jim Tuman
Len Simon
Mark Aarons

Also Present: Ronald Wegner, P.E./ Assistant Village Engineer
1. Call to Order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting for February 12, 2020 to
order at 8:04 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Eren, Selcuk -- 73 Truesdale Drive -- Located in the RA-9 One-Family Residential
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
79.9 Block 6 Lot 19. Request for front and total side yard variances from Code Section
230-33 for a proposed front foyer addition.
Mr. John Power, the architect representing the homeowners, explained that the front yard
variance requested is for the elimination of the concrete stairway in order to create a mid-level
foyer entrance, and the total side yard variance is requested because the homeowners are
modifying the second floor, and the existing house footprint doesn’t comply with the total side
yard, therefore there will be a need for a total side yard variance. The homeowners are
increasing the square footage of the house by approximately 600 sq. feet.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comments heard on this
application, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
Mr. Power explained that the removal of the concrete stairway in the front with the wrought iron
railings is hard to maintain and is difficult to remove snow. There are similar types of houses
with no foyers and no entryway, and the trend is for creating an entryway that provides a more
welcoming experience when entering the house.

The Zoning Board agreed that the foyer appears to be compatible with the neighborhood and
will be a positive change for the street.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the front foyer could not be achieved in any other
place.
3. The requested variances are not substantial.
The variance requested for the front is only 1.34 feet, and the total side yard requested is 4.57
feet, and therefore, are not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
As noted in the first factor, the concrete stairways are difficult to maintain, and a new foyer
would have not only a positive impact on the streetscape, but be a safer alternative for the
residents and guests entering into the house. The addition within the same footprint of the
house is only 600 sq. feet.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
The existing conditions could remain, and the proposed changes are self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a front yard variance of 1.5 ft. and total side yard
variance of 5 ft., seconded by Mr. Simon, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Mr.
Aarons absent)
b) Clarke, Clifton -- 28 Quaker Bridge Road -- Located in a RA-25 One-Family
Residential District and is designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 68.18 Block 1 Lot 3. Request for side yard variance from Village
Zoning Code Section 230-33A for an addition of a side porch/deck structure replacing an
existing structure.
Mr. Clarke, homeowner, explained that the existing old porch was built in the 1990’s and had
been granted a variance on May 23, 1988. The homeowners would like to replace this porch in
kind by extending it forward approximately 3 ft. and then a little to the back. They would be
keeping the existing variance on the porch. Mr. Clarke stated that the existing porch is old and
tired-looking and they wanted to add a little bit of style to the porch. They are also making some
modifications to the kitchen, as well as constructing a more solid roof for the porch, adding
skylights, and creating a more permanent-looking and more architecturally attractive structure.

Chairman Wagner opened the meeting for public comment, and there being no comments
heard from the public, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
Since there already has been a variance granted, the proposed plans are increasing the degree
of nonconformity, however, the Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the proposed porch would
be an improvement to the house.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Mr. Clarke explained that although they had discussed other configurations of the porch, they
were used to the depth of the porch and thought that the extra space would continue to allow
them to keep their existing patio furniture and enable more room for foot traffic from the
proposed sliding kitchen doors to the porch.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved
by a method other than the requested variance but the alternative would not comfortably allow
for reasonably -sized furniture and foot traffic.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The variance requested is only 1.84 ft. and not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The neighbor’s property line is approximately 18.16 ft from the porch and there would be no
adverse effect or impact in the neighborhood. The proposed design would create a more
updated appearance to the single family home and therefore have a positive effect in the
neighborhood.
5. The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the difficulty alleged by the applicant was selfcreated.
MOTION: Mr. Simon made a motion to grant the 2 ft. side yard variance, seconded by Mr.
Tuman, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Chairman Wanger made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, seconded by Mr.
Simon and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0, (Mr. Aarons was absent)
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

