VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
DRAFT MINUTES FOR THE MEETING OF THE PLANNING BOARD FOR
TUESDAY, May 26, 2020
Zoom Video Conference
PRESENT: Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
Steve Krisky
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
Absent:

Chairman Robert Luntz

1. Call to Order: Deputy Chairman Kauderer called the Zoom Video Conference meeting
to order at 7:08 p.m. The Municipal Building has been closed to the public due to public
health reasons during the Coronavirus pandemic.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) 34 Brook Street LLC-- 34 Brook Street (Sec.78.08 Block 5 Lots 31,32) -Application for amended site plan approval and wetlands permit for proposed
residential apartment building (six apartments).
This application was referred to the Planning Board by the Village Board who had granted a
special permit to convert the first-floor commercial space into residential apartments for a total
of six apartments. Mr. Vic Conte, owner of the building, discussed with the Planning Board the
conditions that the Planning Board had previously recommended to the Village Board and that
were now included in the Special Permit.
The items discussed included the parking area and parking layout, specifics of landscaping and
location of ornamental shrubs, trash bins and garbage storage location, installation of the chain
link fence, exterior maintenance of the building, exterior paint color, deteriorated front step of the
building, removal of the sign, and the repair and replacement of the damaged sidewalk.
Mr. Conte will revise the site plan to include these changes, and a public hearing on this site
plan will be scheduled for the June 9th meeting. The Planning Board also referred the plan to
the Water Control Commission for their review of the wetlands permit (where there is a slight
disturbance in the water stream that is close to the proposed site). The Planning Board
requested a sample of the exterior paint color.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to schedule a public hearing for the June 9th meeting and
referred the site plan to the Water Control Commission for review and recommendation of a

wetlands permit for the slight disturbance of the wetland buffer (stream). Mr. Ghegan seconded
the motion, and the vote carried 4-0 in favor. Chairman Luntz was not present.
b) MM 2020 LLC -- 337 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 79.13 Block 1 Lots 61,62) -Application for Amended site Plan for proposed architectural improvements to the
exterior improvements to the front and side of the building (restaurant on first floor).
Mr. Rocco DiLeo, architect for Mr. Mike Macchia, stated that the ground floor is an existing
restaurant which will be made into a pizzeria (Cappriccio’s is moving to this location). The
second floor will remain two residential units.
The scope of work is to do a makeover of the building in order to create an aesthetic for the
exterior of the building that better reflects the new owners’ style for the restaurant. They are
proposing minor architectural modifications, new lighting and new signage.
Mr. DiLeo discussed the elevation views and noted that the stucco building will be painted a
solid white with black paint for signage. There will be signage (painted onto the stucco) in the
front of the building and on the side of the building. The existing pylon signage that previously
was installed for the previous restaurant (Anton’s) will be removed.
The Village Engineer informed the Planning Board that they can waive the Zoning code sign
requirement in order to allow the second sign on the side of the building. Mr. DiLeo noted that
the signage on the north elevation of the building was placed there to capture the attention of
people driving southbound on South Riverside Avenue. Mr. Ghegan asked if there was
sufficient lighting for the parking area and if there was any concern about glare in the
neighboring residential streets. Mr. DiLeo stated that the owner will take some photos as he is
in Croton often in the evening. The Village Engineer noted that there is an ornamental village
street light in front of the restaurant and this will help light up the parking area and entrance to
the restaurant.
Mr. DiLeo pointed out that they were trying to clean up the exterior and simplify the details. He
noted that a take-out counter/pick up area in the front is being proposed if customers are more
comfortable taking out food. A building permit has already been issued for the interior of the
restaurant which has 56 seats (includes a seated counter, booth, and communal tables). The
basement is used solely by the restaurant for storage, office space, and kitchen supplies.
There was a brief discussion of exterior furniture on the patio and Mr. DiLeo confirmed that the
owners wanted to take advantage of the patio and outside seating but had not yet reached any
decisions about the outside area.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing at the next meeting and refer the sign
application to the VEB for their review and recommendation, seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and the
vote carried all in favor 4-0.

2

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of April 28, 2020, as amended,
seconded by Bruce Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0.
Roll call: Mr. Krisky AYE Mr. Ghegan: AYE Mr. Haynes AYE Mr. Kauderer AYE
5. DISCUSSION ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
● There was a brief discussion of the status of the Half Moon Bay promenade application,
and whether the field stones were suitable to keep or better replaced with asphalt. The
question about whether or not the field stones should be replaced is now being reviewed
by the Village Attorney.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:17 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

