VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES FOR THE MEETING OF THE PLANNING BOARD FOR
TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 2020
Zoom Meeting
PRESENT: Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
Steve Krisky
Robert Luntz, Chairman
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference meeting to order at
7:09 p..m. The Municipal Building has been closed to the public due to public health
reasons during the Coronavirus pandemic.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Wilson, Ryan -- 38 Nordica Drive (Sec. 79.14 Block 1 Lot 5) -- Application for
amendment to Approved Minor Site Plan and application for Steep Slopes permit
for single-family dwelling.
Ms. Christine Hobson, P.E. of Moore Associates, discussed the letter, dated April 21, 2020, and
submitted by Mr. Jim Moore, of Moore Associates regarding the construction sequencing and
what to expect at each point of the construction for the proposed single-family dwelling. She
discussed Phase 1: concerns about water on the property, Phase 2: the parking area, Phase 3:
Concrete installation, and Phase 4: completion of the site.
The Planning Board discussed whether the fifteen site visits by Moore Associates would provide
adequate oversight moving through the construction process. The Planning Board discussed
whether there were enough resources in the Engineering Department, in addition to the 15 site
visits by the applicant’s engineering consultant, to supervise at these critical points. The
Planning Board asked if there needed to be another resource for oversight.
The Village Engineer explained that although it was difficult to know the future and the exact
schedule of a project, he and the Assistant Village Engineer would not be able to provide
oversight four hours at a time given other construction projects and the Croton Point Avenue
project. He noted that the project at Piney Point had hired an outside inspector and
recommended that there be an escrow fund be established to hire an inspector.
The Planning Board agreed that an inspector should provide oversight when all the drilling is
taking place. It was noted that wet drilling will be utilized and this will hold down the dust
1

significantly. The Planning Board agreed that a $5000 deposit for escrow should be created,
and whatever is not used, can be returned. If the escrow is used completely, then the escrow
account may need to be replenished.
The Planning Board reviewed the necessity for street closure coordination, the adequacy of the
proposed sewage pump, and the proposed native steep slope seed mix for the steep slope
landscaping.
The Planning Board asked about the timing of these phases. Ms. Hobson, after describing
estimates for each phase, suggested that it might be about six to eight months before the
completion of the project. The timing will depend on the Governor’s decision to allow
construction.
Chairman Luntz stated that he was satisfied with the sequencing explanation and the overview
of the process and appreciated that Moore Associates was providing 15 site visits. He stated
that he thought having additional oversight would be helpful and establishing an escrow fund
would be necessary to make that happen.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the
motion carried by a vote of 5-0 (Roll call: Mr. Krisky AYE Mr. Kauderer AYE Mr. Ghegan AYE
Mr. Haynes AYE Chairman Luntz AYE)
Mr. John McClung, 50 Nordica Drive stated that he was pleased that the presentation tonight
was more detailed than previously. He stated that it was his opinion that given the topography
of the land, the village should not have allowed the land to be developed.
Ms. Carol Shanesy attempted to call in but there appeared to be technical difficulties which
prevented her from entering the meeting.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and carried all
in favor by a vote of 5-0 (Mr. Haynes, AYE, Chairman Luntz AYE, Mr. Ghegan AYE, Mr. Krisky
AYE, Mr. Kauderer AYE)
The Planning Board agreed that an escrow fund to provide additional professional oversight was
necessary and is to established in the amount of $5000, if not completely used, the remainder
can be returned; if more is needed, then the escrow fund would have to be replenished.
Ms. Hobson, P.E. suggested that daily logs can be submitted and shared with the village and
the Planning Board was in agreement with this.
The Planning Board reviewed the draft minor site plan resolution which includes stormwater, fill
and excavation, tree removal, wetland permit for the rain garden, and steep slopes permit with
the revised threshold calculations. There was a discussion about whether the tree removal
permit needed to be included since all the trees had been removed that needed to be removed,
2

and it was decided that the tree permit conditions which include the protection of trees and
landscaping plans were appropriate to keep, but the “Whereas” clause would be modified to
note that under the previous site plan approval, trees were removed but no additional trees are
to be removed.
The Planning Board also agreed that daily logs are to be submitted and shared with the village.
The Planning Board also included that the condition referencing the sequencing plan was
submitted and approved by the Planning Board.
When asked about winterizing the site in case the construction continues into next winter, the
Village Engineer noted that winterizing had been previously done on the site this past winter;
that the slope was stabilized and the stabilization was witnessed by Mr. Moore. The minor site
plan resolution also has a condition about preparing the site for cold weather.
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the resolution, as amended with the four changes (tree
removal clause, the establishment of the escrow fund, the submittal of daily logs, and adding
language that indicates “the construction sequence as approved by the Planning Board”),
seconded by Mr. Krisky and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0 (Mr. Haynes, AYE, Chairman
Luntz AYE, Mr. Ghegan AYE, Mr. Krisky AYE, Mr. Kauderer AYE)
b) Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association--Half Moon Bay Condominiums-Application for Wetlands Permit for proposed Promenade and Revetment
Stabilization plan. Declaration of Lead Agency and referral to the Water Control
Commission and the Waterfront Advisory Committee for its review and
recommendation.
Mr. Mastromonaco, consulting engineer, stated that the Half Moon Bay Homeowners’
Association Board told Mr. Brian Plotkin that they would like to proceed with the repair of the
revetment and they believe that their only choice is to replace the stone that was removed with
the original stone back on the promenade. The HOA board believes that they have the authority
based on the easement agreement and that the grantor of that easement retains the right to
make improvements as they see fit.
Mr. Kauderer reiterated that the Planning Board that had originally approved the stone had
made a big mistake, and now that the stones are gone, it is completely appropriate to replace
the stones with asphalt. The Planning Board agreed that the question that needs to be
submitted to the Village Attorney is whether the Planning Board has the legal right to require
that the HOA board change the pavement to asphalt. The Planning Board members concurred
that the field stones may not have been legal to begin with and were done to discourage
residents to use the easement, and also that there may be an ADA issue (which was not in
existence at the time).

3

The Planning Board members agreed that they wanted to hear back from the Village Attorney
before proceeding; that, if the promenade could be paved differently it would be a great
improvement to that connection for walking and running. The Planning Board agreed that the
materials (cobblestones) were not the proper materials for the purpose of walking and running
and that replacement of these cobblestones was a safety issue.
The Planning Board agreed not to refer to the WAC or WCC at this time until they get an opinion
from the Village Attorney. A memo will be sent to the Village Attorney. Mr. Domingo Ramirez,
Property Manager, Heritage Management Services, LLC for Half Moon Bay was present by
phone only.
3. REFERRALS
a) 85-87 Grand Street Corp —85-87 Grand Street (Section 78.08 Block 6 Lot 30)—Referral
from Village Board of Trustees to review and make recommendation on applicant’s
request for special permit for a change of use from a mixed-use building (currently a 2
family building with a first floor professional office last used as a medical office and two
apartments on second floor) to a four- family building (convert the main floor into 2
separate apartments).
Dr. Martin Melman, owner, and Ms. Nancy Kennedy, realtor, explained that the building
currently is a two-family building with professional offices on the first floor. The proposal is to
create a four-family building by creating two separate apartments on the first floor. The legal
non-conforming building is located in an RB Two-Family Zoning District.
Ms. Kennedy explained that since the 1940’s the first floor of this building has been used as a
medical office. There has been no buyer for the current use, and therefore the applicant would
like to create a building with two apartments on the first floor (the second floor has two
apartments). In order to do this, they are applying for a special permit to change from one nonconforming use (mixed use) to another non-conforming use (multiple family).
The relative square footage for the front apartment is approximately 1800 sq. ft, the back
apartment approximately 1000 sq. feet. There is an existing front and back door. The front
apartment will be a two or three bedroom, the back apartment one or two bedroom. Ms.
Kennedy noted that there is an existing two-car garage and there are two spaces close to the
garage, two spaces on the driveway, and three parking spaces available on the street. There
are already two apartments upstairs and there has been always a place to park for these
tenants.
The Planning Board reviewed the application according to the following goals as stated in
Section 230-58 of the Village Code:
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
This property is accessible to fire and police protection.
4

B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in
conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The Planning Board agreed that an all-residential use of this building is a less intensive
use than the previous mixed-use which included a professional medical office use on the
entire first floor. A residential use is more in keeping with the character of the
neighborhood which includes the Van Wyck Garden apartments across the street, a
legal six-family residential property to the left of this building, and, several multi-family
homes and the Bennett Conservatory of Music to the rear of this property on Van Wyck
Street. In addition, this property’s location is in close proximity to Upper Village shops
and restaurants, allowing residents to walk to these amenities.
C. The safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the
pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account
the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or
conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The Planning Board noted that a four-family residential use is a less intense use than a
professional medical office use and would generate less traffic. Using the parking factor
from the RC Zoning District of 1.5 off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit, six offstreet parking spaces would be required. The Planning Board noted that there are
sufficient parking spaces in the driveway and two-car garage to meet the requirements
for six off-street parking spaces for the two existing and two proposed apartments (four
in total). There is also on-street parking available on Grand Street in front of the
building.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of
walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and
buildings and their appropriate development.
The Planning Board agreed that there are no proposed changes with respect to the
current building in terms of location and height. The application had proposed an
expansion of the asphalt parking area into the landscaped front yard. The Planning
Board discussed this at length and agreed that the existing paved area for parking is
sufficient, with no changes necessary to the landscaped front yard area to the left of the
driveway. The Planning Board also was in agreement that the landscaping on the site
will remain the same which will preserve the residential character of the street.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board agreed that this factor is not applicable to this application.

5

The Planning Board concurred that the four apartments instead of two apartments is a better
use of the building. The Planning Board members were in agreement about making a
recommendation to the Village Board concerning the special permit for 85-87 Grand Street
Corp, and staff will prepare a memo to be reviewed and approved by Chairman Luntz.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of April 28, 2020, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
Roll call:
Mr. Krisky
AYE
Mr. Ghegan
AYE
Mr. Haynes
AYE
Mr. Kauderer
AYE
Chairman Luntz AYE
The Planning Board were satisfied with the memos regarding 34 Brook Street and 1 Niles Road
drafted by staff and agreed that they could be sent to the Village Board.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:05 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

6

