MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, May 31, 2020 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Niall Kelleher
Len Simon
John Habib

Joel Gingold
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:
David Goldman (on leave)

Non-members wishing to attend are asked to RSVP to energywiz@aol.com to verify meeting date,
time, and location, which may be adjusted to meet committee member requests. [Bracketed] text
relates to actions subsequent to this meeting.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Scheduled guests: none
Personnel item:
David Goldman informed us that he will be absent from committee activities until September due to
a work-related project that until then will take most of his time. His absence is thus excused, and
we wish him the best with his project. He will be kept up-to-date by receiving our meeting minutes.
Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:
- Food scrap recycling: Joel reported that C100 has not yet decided if it will take over the admin of
our pilot food scrap grant and project. It’s also looking into Hilltop Hanover Farm in Yorktown as a
recipient for Croton food scraps. Regarding Sustainable Materials Management (SMM), our
present choice for receiving our food scraps, the present status of the composting facility that it’s
building in Cortlandt is not known. Messages to its office on May 10 & 17 have yet to be returned.
Jon informed us of a vertical tubular composting device he recently purchased. He is feeding it food
scraps (as well as yard waste) and will report back in a few months on its performance.
- EV/EVSE: Lindsay recounted Dave’s review of Connecticut’s 109-page EV Roadmap document.
The goal was to see if it contained helpful information for us. Aside from some useful references,
there wasn’t anything that we had not already reviewed. We will continue to focus on opportunities
as they arise to replace Village-owned cars with EVs, when supported by State grants.
On May 28, Joel and Lindsay (and 47 other people) attended Sustainable Westchester’s Zoom
show, “EVs: Who's in the Driver's Seat & What's Down the Road?” Much of it was overview on the
EV market, forthcoming models, “landscape”, etc. There was nothing new of use to our efforts.
Regarding EV school buses, we recently learned that the CMAQ funding which Len had been
investigating is already built into the existing State bus vouchers (presently too small to be useful).
They may be increased later this year (or maybe in 2021) if the VW Settlement money already
allocated to each state is finally disbursed. The district has two other 2006 Type C buses (i.e.,
same as the one at issue in the bus budget) that it may soon also need to replace. It may thus be
best to wait a year or two to do so if/when EV vouchers go up and EV bus prices come down.
Further investigation of EV school buses found that:
1

- new versions will be better insulated to reduce the need for a diesel or propane-fired heater.
Using the battery alone to heat a bus could consume 30% of its capacity in 1 hour.
- in winter, EV buses should be parked in a heated garage to maintain startup battery capacity. The
bus depot has only 3 bays, with some in continuous use, making it difficult to store an EV all winter.
- the battery essentially fills the “underloader”, a space used to stow athletic and other equipment to
school events and field trips. As a result, an EV bus may not be useable for such activities.
- the depot’s infrastructure (e.g., electric service) is too stretched to take an EV bus and charger.
Despite the above (and many other) issues, C100 organized against the school’s upcoming June 9
transportation budget vote, unless it includes an EV school bus.
The possibility of an EV for the high school’s driver education program is dormant due to a lack of
response from the existing program contractor (PAS Driving School). Once the new school year
starts (and assuming driver education is again being taught), we will re-examine that option.
Regarding EV trucks, Len reviewed two long studies from NACFE (North American Council for
Freight Efficiency) on the status and issues related to electrically-powered mid-size and class 8
(i.e., big) trucks. Some Village trucks (e.g., garbage) fall into class 8. While informative, the studies
did not point to or reveal anything of immediate use to us. It concluded that, while work is in
process to make small EV trucks, it may be a decade (or longer) before technology exists to make
large units competitive with diesel/gasoline units on a total-cost-of-ownership (TCO) basis. We will
continue to monitor available grants, and hope that the technology and cost of such vehicles will
eventually approach a point worthy of our attention.
Congress has re-instated the 30% federal income tax credit for purchasing and installing an EV
charger used for business (not individual) vehicles, up to a credit of $1,000. It had run out 12/31/17,
and now runs until 12/31/20. Learn more at: https://www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/about-form-8911
- Solar projects: Brian helped expedite Cortlandt’s building permit for the DPW rooftop job (held up
for ~2 months due to COVID). Ecogy got the permit May 3. Phase 1 COVID Reopening started
May 26, allowing roof work to begin. Ecogy expects to be generating power by Labor Day, and to
start community solar sales in the fall/winter. Regarding the proposed solar canopies at 2 Village
parks, the VB on May 4 (again with Brian’s help) approved signing the CESIR interconnection
applications for both sites. Ecogy received that paperwork on May 7. To avoid tree and other
issues related to Senasqua Park, Ecogy chose at this time to move ahead only on Croton Landing.
For that site, it revised its design to avoid such issues. Based on experience with Con Ed, its
CESIR study should be done by Hallowe’en.
During the May 4 VB session, trustees asked about installing solar canopies at the train station
parking lot. Janine added that issue to the VB’s June 8 work session agenda. Lindsay prepared a
draft RFP for that project based on the DPW rooftop RFP, and forwarded a copy to her on May 15.
NYSERDA provided its comments on May 26. Since creating the bidder list for the DPW project
over a year ago, another ~200 solar vendors were approved by NYSERDA. To whittle that down
via a RFI, Lindsay secured from NYSERDA a file of email addresses and contact names. If (on
June 8) the VB wishes us to proceed, we will have the tools needed to expedite the job.

2

- Leaf blower regulation: Leaf blowers are presently regulated only under the Village’s general noise
statute. John Habib reported that Janine King on May 12 issued an amendment to the April 8, 2020
Emergency Order that had banned the weekend use of leaf blowers within the Village boundaries.
The amendment now allows their use on Saturdays from 9:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m., and on
Sundays from 10:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.
The matter has been formally referred to the CAC for its review of the "A to Z" issues. It may advise
the VB to amend the Village's legislative treatment of the issue. To solicit input from residents, it
will host a Zoomed public comment forum on the issue on Wednesday, June 3, at 7:30 p.m. It may
also be watched live on cable Ch. 78. Information will be provided about gas-powered leaf blowers
and their effects on the environment. All who wish to publicly comment or watch the forum need to
first register at: https://tinyurl.com/CACRegister20. Once registered, you will receive the Zoom link.
Public comments will also be accepted via email to managersoffice@crotononhudson-ny.gov.
Recruitment/Outreach:
- School district: Its Environmental Sustainability Committee met May 27 via Google Meet. Much of
the discussion involved the June 9 bus budget vote. It was also stated that the school will be
issuing its RFP for an energy performance contract (EPC) in late June or early July. An EPC will
involve energy auditing of all 4 buildings, with recommendations for upgrades. If accepted, it will
also bankroll installing them, with repayments from energy cost savings.
Our FOIL request for the schools’ benchmarking and GHG inventory data was accepted the
district’s clerk on April 24. Once the data arrives, we will set up a process to enter it into
appropriate software tools for analysis. Jon K. volunteered to assist with that work.
Communications:
In an email from the school district on other issues, Denise Harrington-Cohen (Asst. Supt. For
Business) wrote: “Lastly, I wanted to thank you for the technical support surrounding sustainability
that you’ve provided and offered the district thus far. As we continue to advance our knowledge &
understanding, your insight and experience will be a valuable resource for us.”
Responses were received from MTA on GHG issues related to the Croton-Harmon Train Yard. We
learned: it will be installing a 130-kW solar rooftop array on a new building, to be done by 2023;
there is no GHG inventory or ASHRAE Level 2 energy audit for the Yard; MTA has no sustainability
director, but does have Energy Mgt. and Environmental Compliance Depts.; MTA is “developing a
Green Fleet Action Plan that will consider the feasibility of EVs” for its cars/trucks. Our FOIL
request to MTA revealed that the Yard uses about 500,000 gal/yr of fuel oil and about 70,000
therms/yr of gas. Electric usage was lumped in with all other MTA facilities, and will require some
analysis to tease out a useful value. Bottom line: the Yard is likely Croton’s largest GHG emitter.
New/ongoing business:
- Others’ efforts: Joel briefly reported on other C100 activities and our interactions with it. He said
many actions appear to be on hold, pending resolution of its demands for an EV bus.
Subsequent to our discussions regarding C100’s proposed carbon footprinting app, Lindsay had
expressed our concerns to Leo Wiegman regarding use of inappropriate emission factors from the
3

online Berkeley.edu CoolClimate calculator. C100 had used that site to develop an average
baseline Croton household (HH) footprint of 52.6 MT/yr. Lindsay forwarded to Leo two studies from
2012 by professional firms experienced in the field, and data from the EPA’s own carbon calculator.
Each showed average HH footprints between ~21 and 24 MT/HH/yr without taking CCA into
account (which would further reduce them). Rather than using factors found in the Berkeley
calculator, Leo provided a spreadsheet of acceptable factors (based on EPA data) that would
instead be used by C100. A recent examination of the Carbon Tracker section of C100’s web site
no longer showed the 52.6 number. It also shows a link to EPA’s carbon calculator.
- NYPA 100% renewable power offering: During a May 11 Zoom, Lindsay reviewed it with NYPA
reps. In short, it is not yet “fully baked”. NYPA agreed to provide details and written materials
before our June meeting. About 40% of the Village’s municipal footprint is from electrical
consumption. Switching to “green” power could thus cut it by almost 40%. To a lesser % degree,
the same would be true of the school district’s footprint.
- Climate Smart Community (CSC): On May 22, DEC awarded us bronze certification. DEC says we
are “on the horizon” to win silver (the highest level), but again withheld points for 4 of our
submissions. More revisions are needed (by July 3) to make them acceptable. One problem in
doing so relates to the loss of documentation provided (in 2012) by the consultant (Ecology &
Environment, a/k/a E&E) that had produced a regional climate action plan that included Croton.
DEC would not accept that document as is, and demanded its backup data. E&E told us (last
December) that it had lost all that data, so we must now re-construct it on our own.
Attaining CSC certification is another CEC (Clean Energy Community, a NYSERDA program)
action item. Proof of our CSC certification was submitted 3/30/20. In 2017, we had been certified as
a CEC.. We have now completed 9 of the 10 CEC action items, more than any other community in
the State. The last one requires our building inspector to attend a live training class on the State
energy code as it applies to residences. All live events are presently suspended due to COVID.
- Niall’s request for approval of a community garden at Gouveia Park: As per Brian’s prior statement
that other issues had to be handled by the VB before it would be considered, discussion of a third
community garden will remain on hold at this time. CAC will need to be involved.
- Regarding his Stretch Code FAQ, Jon asked that it be put on the agenda for our next meeting. He
asked for questions that should be included, e.g., extra costs involved (for both residents and our
building inspector’s time), tax implications, if all (or only) parts of the code must be accepted, etc.
- Joel asked about a proposed wind turbine manufacturing plant (not a wind farm) called Port
Cortlandt. The town of Cortlandt clarified that the application to lease 20+ of its acres (along the
Hudson River in Verplanck) was a private project by AKRF, Inc. which is seeking financial support
from NYSERDA. No approvals have been given, nor has Cortlandt’s board voted on it. Public
hearings will be held before any municipal actions are taken.
Date for our next meeting: June 28, 2020 (to avoid the June 21 Father’s Day).

4

