MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, June 28, 2020 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Niall Kelleher
Len Simon

Joel Gingold
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:
David Goldman (on leave)
John Habib (excused)

Non-members wishing to attend are asked to RSVP to energywiz@aol.com to verify meeting date,
time, and location, which may be adjusted to meet committee member requests. [Bracketed] text
relates to actions subsequent to this meeting.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Scheduled guests: none
Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:
- Food scrap recycling: After discussions with C100, Joel concluded that it is not yet able and/or
willing to handle administration of our pilot food scrap recycling grant project. He also found that
Hilltop Hanover Farm (HHF) in Yorktown (which had been suggested as an alternative) could act
as a recipient for Croton food scraps but they would then be taken to the Ulster composting facility.
We had already ruled that out due to GHG from the diesel trucking involved. Sustainable Materials
Management (SMM) in Cortlandt announced on June 8 that its construction on its commercial
composting facility was almost done. They expected to be open and operating “in a month or so”.
During this discussion, Lindsay asked if any members were aware of an indoor composting
process that essentially “pickles” food scraps into compost, ostensibly emitting little or no methane.
It was mentioned during a call with Rhinebeck’s sustainability committee. It involves bokashi, a
brownish powder additive that accelerates that process. Niall agreed to investigate it as an option
for residents that wish to compost their food scraps. Jon will also examine the process. A good
starting point is https://bokashiliving.com/.
EV/EVSE: Regarding EV school buses, the school district’s transportation budget (which included a
hybrid van but not an EV school bus) was passed June 16, despite C100’s opposition. As
improvements are made in the fiscal and technical viability of EV school buses, we will review
options to replace another of the district’s 2006 Type C buses. In the meantime, Lindsay will urge
the district to develop a list of ways that the bus depot needs to be upgraded to install appropriate
charging and parking for EV school buses.
- Solar projects: We now have three solar jobs in process:
- Work on the DPW rooftop job started in early June and should be done by mid-July. Con Ed is
scheduled to deliver its transformer on July 13.
- To help expedite the Croton Landing canopy job, Ecogy chose to focus on it and put off further
development of the Senasqua Park job. To move it forward, Ecogy provided a draft Letter of
Intent/Memo of Understanding (LoI/MoU). It would show the Village’s intent to proceed once the
CESIR application is approved. The LoI/MoU was forwarded to Janine for review on June 23.

1

- At the June 8 VB work session, the train station parking lot solar canopy RFP was discussed.
After various concerns were addressed, the VB authorized Janine to review the draft we had
provided on May 15. We also drafted a Request for Information (RFI) to whittle down the ~200
NYSERDA-approved vendors to just those meeting our criteria to receive the RFP. Janine provided
edits on June 29. The RFI was sent to the vendors on June 29, with responses required by July 14.
Work continues on the draft RFP.
By coincidence, a June 11 Zoom by Rockland Goes Green (comparable to our committee) focused
on potential parking lot solar canopies in the Hudson Valley. It listed all Metro-North parking lots,
with the Croton station lot being the largest, with the greatest potential solar output.
- Climate Smart Community (CSC): To advance our status from Bronze to Silver, more changes
were made to our last 4 submissions. On June 15, the VB amended its 3/16/20 GHG commitment
resolution to fix a detail required by DEC. Revised submissions were submitted to DEC June 27 to
meet its July 3 deadline. We should next hear back on this on Aug. 21.
- NYPA’s 100% renewable power offering: Lindsay again queried the local NYPA rep on June 14 and
23, but no response was received, despite promises to provide details by now. He will press again
for information before our next meeting. Such an offering, if taken, could significantly cut the carbon
footprints of the schools and municipal government.
Recruitment/Outreach:
- School district: Its budget passed and the school year concluded, there is nothing new to report.
We await a response to our April 24 FOIL request for the district’s GHG-related inventory data.
- Library: While its budget was accepted on June 16, it remains unclear when it may re-open. On
June 22, Lindsay again asked its director about upgrading its lighting to LED. Doing so would be
easier while the building remains closed. The annual GHG reduction would roughly equal that of an
EV school bus, but at ~5% of the cost. Con Ed recently raised its rebates by 33-67% for projects
that apply by 9/30/20 and do the work by 11/15/20. Doing so could yield a payback period <1 year.
However, the director said the library is focusing all its attention on re-opening. In the meantime, it
is replacing its fluorescent lamps with LEDs one-at-a-time as the former burnout.
Communications:
A response to our 2nd FOIL request to the MTA was received. To help us complete a Scope 1&2
GHG inventory for the Harmon Yard train facility, we had asked for its 2019 NYPA electric bills.
MTA stated that it does not get separate electric bills for the Harmon Yard. A FOIL request was
submitted to NYPA on June 22 to determine the Yard’s annual power consumption. The data, if
available, may be provided by July 28.
To raise our Climate Smart Community points, Lindsay will ask the Bike-Ped Committee during its
July 24 Zoom to consider seeking a Complete Streets policy resolution from the VB. Much of that
committee’s work already fits such a policy, so no new projects or expenses would be needed.
Ongoing/new business:
2

- Jon reviewed his Stretch Code FAQ, a draft of which was sent to committee members on June 27.
While the State’s energy construction code (NYECCC) was updated last May, opportunities remain
for even more energy-efficient new homes/additions/rehabs. Among them are: windows that lose
less heat, improvements to insulation specifications, and additional wiring and conduits needed to
prep a home for future solar and EV charger installations. The Village has the power to mandate
such code changes locally, but it was felt such a change should be accompanied by a financial
incentive. Brian indicated that the best way would be to bar increases to property tax assessments
on the value of such improvements, thus providing an additional form of payback for installing
them. The committee discussed various issues with the costs, paybacks, etc. of a locally stricter
building code. Several edits and changes were suggested. With help from committee members,
Jon plans to convert his report (appended below) into a proposal to the VB later in the summer.
- Len reported on the possibility of securing private grant funds from 7 large foundations. Janine had
indicated we could do so as long as the VB previously OKed a project that could get such funds.
He noted that attention of some of those foundations is now on COVID-related issues, or overseas
needs, or specific locations, and several of them actually have very limited or non-existent current
focus on climate change or energy technology. Bottom line: at this time, Croton is either too small,
or otherwise not appropriate, to receive funding from most of those sources. Joel suggested that
several communities band together to get around the size issue, and maybe work with C100 to act
as the 501(c)(3) agent where needed. Len will monitor the Bezos Fund as it rolls out its first climate
change grants. It may be the best bet of the 7 for future funding. His report is appended to these
minutes. Len agreed to next compile a list of the main funders of 5 major climate change-oriented
organizations: NRDC, EDF, Sierra Club, Climate Reality Project, and 350.org.
- Joel briefly reported on a proposed wind turbine manufacturing plant (not a wind farm) called Port
Cortlandt (https://portcortlandt.com/). The town of Cortlandt clarified that the application to lease
20+ of its acres (along the Hudson River in Verplanck) was a private project by AKRF, Inc. which is
seeking financial support from NYSERDA. No approvals have been given, nor has Cortlandt’s
board voted on it. At this point, the project is essentially conceptual.
Date for our next meeting: July 26, 2020 (our last meeting until Sept. 27 to allow summer recess).

Jon’s Stretch Code FAQ report
NYS 2020 Stretch Code, Summary and Review Notes, Croton on Hudson, Sustainability
Committee



Note that NYS ECCC 2020 (Base energy code) went into effect May 12, 2020, already more
stringent than previous code.
This summary focuses on the Residential Provisions of the NYS 2020 Stretch Code.

This summary is being provided to answer some additional questions that may arise, that are not
answered by the NYSERDA FAQ document available here:


https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Programs/Energy-Code-Training/NYStretch-EnergyCode-2020
3

Q: What is a stretch energy code? (From the NYSERDA FAQ)
A: A stretch energy code is simply an energy code that is more stringent than New York State’s base
energy code that can be adopted by local jurisdictions.
Common Additional Questions:
Q: What’s going to trigger the requirements of NYS Stretch, with respect to existing residences?
(Note, this answer is provided by Jonathan Katz, PE, and while it’s an engineering professional’s
opinion, it’s not the interpretation of the local Code Enforcement /AHJ [Authority Having
Jurisdiction] / Building Dept.
A: Any new construction or new addition is subject to the adopted energy code. If NYS Stretch were
adopted in full or in part, then most additions and Alterations to existing buildings (including
residences) are subject to Chapter 5 of the NYS ECCC. NY Stretch does not modify what triggers
compliance with the Energy Code.
 Energy Code applies to Additions, The new portion only, generally without affecting existing
parts of a building.
 Energy Code applies to altered parts of building/systems only.
 Example Alteration: Conditioning an unconditioned basement space. The altered space
should be in full compliance with the code, (except if performance modeling methods are
used).
 There are many exceptions where alterations don’t have to comply with provisions for new
buildings:

Figure 1 Excerpt NYS ECCC

There are many parts of the NY Stretch code that apply to new buildings only (Domestic hot water
efficiency measures, solar ready, EV ready, for example).
Q: Does NY Stretch require increasing wall thicknesses for wood framed construction?

4

A: Both R-20 and R-21 batt is 5.5” thick; so no, there is no increase in thickness to a 2x6 wall. In
addition to R-21, NY Stretch requires header insulation of R-10, which is intended to reduce
“Thermal Bridging” which is a significant source of energy waste is buildings. Example image
below for residential wall construction.

Figure 2 Example Wall detail, with header insulation

Q: Does the Village have the ability to adopt only portions of this NY Stretch code
?
A: Yes, Sustainability Committee believes that would be allowed, as long as any deletions to the NY
Stretch provisions done inadvertently make the adopted energy code less stringent than the 2020
NYS ECCC. (This is unlikely).
Q: Could we have a Village /local law that would be an incentive program rather than a mandatory
Local Law.
A: Yes, From recent Sust. Committee meeting minutes: As per discussions regarding legality of
offering a property tax incentive to those using the Stretch Code, Brian P. verified with the Village’s
attorney that Croton could indeed develop a program offering an incentive."
Q: Does NY Stretch Code make rooftop solar panels mandatory in any situation?
A: No, however the NY Stretch code requires that new residential construction, with at least 600 ft 2
of roof-area, be made “Solar Ready” (with some exceptions).
Q: Does NY Stretch Code require EV charging stations be installed in any situation?
A: No, however the NY Stretch code requires that new residential construction, with on-site parking
be made “EV Charging Ready” by providing 240V/40A outlets (or wire/conduit), at the parking area
for each dwelling unit, or 5% of the parking spaces.
5

Q: What will it Cost to comply with NYS Stretch Code? (based on our locality)
A: Cost Impact to Residences, from NYSERDA study, for residences in climate zone 4A-balance
(That’s downstate NY, including Westchester County):
~$2,500 to $3,000. (See breakdown in next section).
Sustainability committee reviewed the NYSERDA report and found these estimates are likely on the
low side depending on the size and scope of the renovation, new addition, new house.

Figure 3: Excerpt NYSERDA Cost Analysis study

Q: Specifically what does the Residential Provisions of NYS Stretch Code Improve over the 2020
NYS energy code?
A: This is a brief Summary List of improvements for Climate Zone 4A; Refer to the NYSERDA report
for a complete list of Stretch Code Improvements.
*Total Costs per NYSERDA includes a -$330 credit for reduced equipment size.
Based on a 2,400 SF detached house per NYSERDA study.

6

Component

2020 NYS Stretch Code

2020 NYS ECCC
(Base Code)

NYSERDA Study
Cost Add:*

Wall Insulation when insulating
only the wall cavity
Wall Insulation when using cavity
and continuous
Windows U-value
Floor Insulation
Basement Wall/Crawl space wall
Insulation
Slab Insulation depth
Insulation Inspection

R-21 with R-10 added to wall
headers
R-20 cavity + R-5 continuous

R-20 only

$380

R-13 cavity + R-5
continuous
U-0.32
R-19
R-10 cont. or R-13 cavity

-

$560
No cost included

HVAC Ducts location
HVAC Duct Sizes
DHW Efficiency Options

Locate in conditioned space
Sized Per ACCA
New Buildings must choose
from:
limited volume, limited pipe
length, DHW Circ system, or
Drain HRUs.
ERV Not required in zone 4A
Balanced ventilation system
required. 45 W/cfm max
fan power/
Testing Required

2 ft
Not Required, local
inspector
No Requirement
No requirement
ECMs are optional.

No requirement.

$300

No Requirement.

No cost included
$21

Ventilation and Energy Recovery
Ventilators (ERV)

Ventilation verification
Lighting Efficacy
Lamps (i.e. bulbs)
Luminaires (i.e. fixtures
w/lamps)
Solar Readiness
EV Charging Readiness

U-0.27
R-30
R-15 cont. or R-19 cavity
4 ft
Required, 2% compressed max

65 lm/W
45 lm/W

60 lm/W at most

Yes, for new buildings
Yes, for new buildings

None
None

7

$391
$480
$345

$505
$400

No cost included
No cost included

Len’s Report on Seven Private Funding Sources

Review of Foundation Funding Sources for Sustainability Committee Projects
Funding
Source

Climate Change/
Energy Efficiency Awards/
Focus

Bloomberg
Philanthropies

(1) American Cities Climate
Challenge, formed with an
investment of $70 million to
support cities in the fight
against climate change,
focuses on high-impact
urban climate solutions that
are already proven to
succeed – specifically, from
the buildings and
transportation sectors. 25
U.S. cities, all large, are
currently participating.
--------------------------(2) The Mayors Challenge
helps cities develop ideas
that solve the most urgent
problems facing cities today,
including climate change. 35
Champion Cities were
selected from a pool of more
than 320 applications. The
Mayors Challenge has been
offered periodically since
2013 and was last available
in 2018.

Municipal
Eligibility/
Size Factors

---

Matchin
g
Share

Grant
Amounts

Winning cities receive: (1)
help in creating high
impact policies; (2) data,
design, and innovation
resources; (3) leadership
development supports; (4)
implementation coaching to
drive results; (5) citizen
engagement supports to
maximize community buyin; (6) polling and
communications support;
(7) robust peer-to-peer
learning and networking to
ensure the 25 Leadership
Cities learn from and push
one another; and (8) Rapid
response grants to
accelerate impact

--Each Champion City
received $100,000 and
coaching to creatively test
its new idea with
residents. Nine Winning
Cities then received $1
million each to bring their
ideas to life.

8

---

Grant
Durati
on

---

Grant
Calendar

----

Notes

I have reached out to
Bloomberg
Philanthropies to
receive ongoing
information on the
American Cities
Climate Challenge, the
Mayors Challenge or
other grant
opportunities in
which climate change
can be a focus.

Funding
Source

Climate Change/
Energy Efficiency Awards/
Focus

Municipal
Eligibility/
Size Factors

The Bill and
Melinda
Gates
Foundation

In February, the Foundation
declared that fighting climate
change will be a prominent
issue in their philanthropy
going forward. They will
focus on meeting the Paris
Accord Goals by 2050
through Mitigation and
Adaptation.

The
foundation
awards the
majority of
its grants to
U.S.
501(c)(3)
organizations
and other
tax-exempt
organizations
.

On February 17th, 2020, Jeff
Bezos announced that he was
donating $10 billion to a new
organization called Jeff Bezos
Earth Fund to fight climate
change. JBEF will "begin
issuing grants this summer".

JBEF will
fund
scientists,
activists,
NGOs. No
mention of
municipal
eligibility
yet.

Jeff Bezos
Earth Fund

⁣⁣

Paul G. Allen
Family
Foundation

PGA has a Climate and Energy
Program which has recently
sponsored grants in
Transportation and Mobility
(the Smart Cities Initiative) and
Energy Policy and Technology

---

Matchin
g
Share

Grant
Amounts

---

---

---

---

---

--9

Grant
Durati
on

---

---

---

Grant
Calendar

----

----

----

Notes

Since the February
announcement, news
from the Foundation
has dealt mostly with
COVID-19, with no
mention of new
climate change grants.
I have reached out to
the Foundation to
express interest and
inquire when climate
change initiatives may
be forthcoming.

No new information
on the Jeff Bezos
Earth Fund available
since its initial
announcement on
February 17, 2020. We
will monitor its
progress and report
back.

"Because our funding
vision and priorities
are carefully curated,
at this time we do not
accept unsolicited
proposals". I have
contacted PGA to

Funding
Source

Climate Change/
Energy Efficiency Awards/
Focus

Open Society
Foundation
(George Soros)

The Foundations does not
appear to be currently working
in the climate change or
energy innovation fields.

Chan
Zuckerberg
Initiative

Clinton
Climate
Initiative

CZI makes grants to
organizations working in support
of missions in Science,
Education, and Justice &
Opportunity – as well as giving
grants directed to their local
community - the Bay Area in
California. They do not work in
climate change or energy
technology.
In April 2011, the Cities
Program of the Clinton
Climate Initiative (CCI), a
program of the William J.

Municipal
Eligibility/
Size Factors

Grant
Amounts

Matchin
g
Share

Grant
Durati
on

Grant
Calendar

---

---

---

---

----

---

---

---

---

----

The C40
Focus is
mega-cities.

inquire about future
solicitations for which
the Sustainability
Committee could
apply.
Notes

Grants "Themes" are:
Democratic Practice,
Higher Education,
Early Childhood
Education Human
Rights Movements
and Institutions,
Economic Equity and
Justice, Information
and Digital Rights,
Equality and Antidiscrimination,
Journalism, Health and
Rights, Justice Reform
and the Rule of Law.

----

Prior to merger with
C40, the CCI’s Cities’
Programs included
building retrofits,

10

Clinton Foundation and the
C40 Cities Climate Leadership
Group (C40) merged, with C40
essentially absorbing CCI.

---

---

---

11

---

----

outdoor lighting,
waste management,
low carbon
transportation, new
urban developments,
and greenhouse gas
measurement and
reporting.

