Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, June 15, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHES

Trustee Habib made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 2019-2020
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved with
a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$84,015.08
$1,441.44
$6,203,85
$529,259.86

Trustee Habib made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 2020-2021
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved with
a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$181,416.23
$19,406.12
$3,465.12
$15,117.03
$1,483.20

3.

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL – None

4.

CORRESPONDENCE
a. Memo from Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer, dated June 3, 2020
requesting an extension of a Building Permit for 55 Batten Road.
On Motion by Trustee Simmons and seconded by Trustee Habib the
Board Trustees approved the extension of a “Building Permit” for the

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 2

property located at 55 Batten Road. Motion was approved with the
following vote: 5-0.
b. Email from Toni Senecal Shea, owner of Croton Tapsmith dated June 9,
2020 regarding the closure of Village streets for outdoor dining.
Village Manager King showed the Board a picture of barriers that could
be used to protect the tables from traffic and asked if the Board would
want to consider the removal of parking spaces for restaurants that are
interested
in
taking
advantage
of
this.
https://crotononhudson.novusagenda.com/Agendapublic/CoverSheet.as
px?ItemID=5104&MeetingID=755
Trustee Habib asked who would be purchasing the barriers.
Village Manager King stated that she believes the Board would want
the business owners to pay for them; the barriers range around
$210.00 each and the number of barriers would differ depending on
the number of spaces they would be blocking off.
On motion by Trustee Habib and seconded by Trustee Simmons the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson authorized the
Village Manager to allow for the removal of parking spaces and the
placement of barriers, paid for by the business owners; until October
15, 2020. Motion was approved with the following Roll Call Vote:
Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Horowitz asked if the barriers would interfere with traffic lanes.
Village Manager King advised that she had Superintendent of Public
Works Frank Balbi look at it and he advised that the barriers would not
interfere with the traffic lanes.
Mayor Pugh added that the Board will not be making the decision on
the type of barrier, it will be a decision that will be made by our
Department of Public Works and the Village Engineer as to what would
be appropriate.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 3

Trustee Horowitz
problematic.

asked

if

closing

the

street

would

be

more

Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the barriers would be
permanent during the timeframe that the Board allows, the street
closures that are being done in other municipalities are typically on a
Friday and/or Saturday night.
Trustee Gallelli advised that the “New York State Liquor Authority” will
only allow alcohol to be served in the direct frontage of the
establishment selling the alcohol.
Trustee Habib stated that this is a viable option for the retailers, and it
should be noted that the government is trying to find solutions for
retailers.
Mayor Pugh stated that outdoor dining is part of the Phase II reopening plan.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she understands the businesses that are
for this but what about the businesses that are not involved in dining
and drinking since they are losing parking.
Trustee Habib stated that the businesses that he has spoken with are
happy for the traffic into these areas.
Mayor Pugh stated that we are talking about the parking spaces that
are basically within the footprint of that business and believes that the
entity that would be most impacted is that business owner.
Trustee Horowitz asked if parking restrictions could be loosened in the
Vassallo Parking Lot so that people can park there since other spots
will be disappearing.
Village Manager King stated that if parking becomes an issue then we
will look at what we can do at Vassallo.
Trustee Gallelli stated that these restaurants will still be able to have
tables up next to their buildings and the requirement for sidewalk
passage must continue to be adhered to.

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 4

c. Public Notice from the New York State Attorney General, Letitia James,
dated June 12th advising that a Public Hearing will be held on
Wednesday, June 17th at 11:00am via video-conference to discuss
Police/Public Interactions during the recent protests; Public Hearing can
be viewed by logging onto their website: ag.ny.gov/livestream.
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS – none
6. PRIOR APPROVED RESOLUTION:
On motion of TRUSTEE Gallelli, seconded by TRUSTEE Simmons, the following
resolution was unanimously adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye,
Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees would like to amend the May 3, 1993
resolution authorizing a permanent special permit to Village merchants for outdoor
displays and/or dining. and
WHEREAS, this was discussed at the June 8, 2020 work session,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that a permanent special permit to the
Village merchants is hereby approved to permit outdoor displays and/or dining
subject to the following conditions:
1. The special permit is effective for all business owners who wish to have
outdoor displays and/or dining.
2. The applicant must file a sketch plan to the Engineering Department for its
approval prior to setting up displays and/or tables and chairs.
3. The business owner must maintain at least a four-foot-wide space to allow for
pedestrians to pass.
4. Emergency egress out of each business establishment must not be blocked
off in any way.
5. Displays and/or outdoor dining will be permitted seven days a week but only
between the hours of 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
6. Displays must be stored daily and cannot be left in any public area.
7. Display and dining areas must be kept clean, neat and litter free.
8. The business owners must discourage loitering.
9. Violation of any of the above conditions by any business owner will result in
the suspension and/or revocation of the permit for that particular merchant
for such a period of time as determined by the Village Manager based on the
recommendation of the Code Enforcement Officer.
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 5

7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #100 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees approved the 2020-2021 capital plan on
April 27, 2020, and
WHEREAS, $107,000 of the unassigned fund balance was designated for capital
expenditures,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $107,000 from the unassigned fund balance to the
following capital accounts:
$50,000

21382

$5,000
$29,000
$23,000

21383
21386
21387

Security Improvements Second Floor
(Municipal Building)
Police Replacement Electric Hybrid
Vehicle
Portable Radio System Upgrades
Hessian Hills Upgrade

Resolution #101 of 2020
On motion of TRUSEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson assumed the ownership of and
maintenance requirements for the Half Moon Bay Bridge over the Metro-North
Railroad tracks in 1996; and
WHEREAS, in 2013, a New York State inspection was performed on the bridge,
which found safety issues with the existing conduit hanging from the bottom of the
bridge, and
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 6

WHEREAS, while these issues were addressed, the overall structure of the bridge
was also investigated, which found maintenance and repair work would be needed
for the proper maintenance of the bridge, and
WHEREAS, in October 2019, a follow-up inspection was done with Antonucci &
Associates, Architects & Engineers (AA-AE) of Pelham, New York, and
WHEREAS, based on this most recent inspection, a proposal has been provided for
the preparation of construction documents, assistance with bidding and
construction administration in the amount of $45,160, and
WHEREAS, Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, has provided a memo in
support of this proposal, and has also requested authorization for additional funding
in the amount of $4,840,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to accept the proposal from AA-AE in the not-to-exceed amount of
$50,000,and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for such proposal is available in the
following capital accounts:
H5110.2106.11216 - $27,297.54
H5110.2106.15287 - $22,702.46
Resolution #102 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the current Inter-Municipal Agreement for solid waste and recyclables
between Westchester County and the Village expired on October 21, 2019; and
WHEREAS, the Village desires to continue the agreement which will allow the Village
to bring municipally-collected solid waste to the Charles Point Resource Recovery
Facility in Peekskill, New York, and recyclables to the Town of Cortlandt Recycling
Facility for subsequent transfer to the Materials Recovery Facility in Yonkers, New
York; and
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 7

WHEREAS, this agreement will cover the period commencing October 22, 2019
through October 21, 2024; and
WHEREAS, the tipping fee for the disposal of municipally-collected solid waste will
be $29.28 per ton until October 21, 2021; and
WHEREAS, such tipping fee will be subject to an adjustment factor equal to the
Consumer Price Index for each year thereafter that the Inter-Municipal Agreement
remains in effect; and
WHEREAS, there shall continue to be no fee for the delivery of recyclable materials
to the facility, unless such delivery contains more than 10% of Rejects, which will
then be charged the above-stated tipping fee,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the agreement with Westchester County for the disposal of municipallycollected solid waste and recyclables for the period between October 22, 2019 and
October 21, 2024.
Resolution #103 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on May 9, 2018, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson awarded the bid for
tree trimming and removal services, Bid # 02-2018, to Golden’s Tree Service of
Montrose, New York; and
WHEREAS, the contract was for a period of one year with an option to extend for
two additional one-year periods; and
WHEREAS, Golden’s Tree Service has agreed to honor its bid pricing for the
upcoming year, at the rate of $1,605.60 per day consisting of a 3 man work crew
and equipment, for a total of $40,000, and
WHEREAS, Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, has recommended
extending this contract,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to extend the contract for tree trimming and removal services
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 8

with Golden’s Tree Service of Montrose, New York, for a one-year period beginning
June 1, 2020, through May 31, 2021.
Resolution #104 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson seeks certification as a Climate Smart
Community under the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
(DEC) program of that name; and
WHEREAS, the DEC certifiers requested revision and re-submission of documents
and information that, if accepted, could secure that certification; and
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020, Resolution #46-2020 was adopted by the Village
Board, which, among other items, stated that the Village will seek to reduce its
municipal GHG emissions by 20% between 2010 and the end of 2025; and
WHEREAS, the starting year for the reduction of municipal GHG emissions is actually
2007, instead of 2010,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that Resolution #46-2020 is hereby amended
to read as follows:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village will seek to reduce its municipal GHG
emissions by 20% between 2007 and the end of 2025, and its community GHG by
10% between 2010 and 2030.
Resolution #105 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, Westchester County operates a hotline system which allows for the
speedy communication of information, coordination of operations and the like
between the County and various municipal police agencies; and
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 9

WHEREAS, a new hotline system is being installed which is based upon voice over
Internet protocol (VOIP) technology; and
WHEREAS, the County is providing to each municipal agency certain VOIP-related
equipment that will facilitate their participation in the system,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute a license agreement with Westchester County for the acquisition of VOIPrelated equipment for the hotline system.
Resolution #106 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, Black Americans continue to suffer nationally from systemic racism that
repeatedly manifests itself in the form of police brutality, disproportionate reliance
on incarceration within our criminal justice system, forms of environmental and
economic discrimination, and deprivation of adequate public resources; and
WHEREAS, these many injustices have continued to manifest themselves in national
criminal acts involving the intimidation and murder of Black Americans, shocking
the conscience of millions of Americans; and
WHEREAS, our nation believes that all people should enjoy life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness; and
WHEREAS, disenfranchisement is defined as the state of being deprived of a right or
privilege, especially the right to vote; and
WHEREAS, our nation has a history of disregarding our highest ideals at the
expense of minorities, exemplified by the systematic disenfranchisement of Black
Americans, who were not initially afforded the same constitutional protections and
privileges as the majority; and
WHEREAS, this pattern of disenfranchisement persists in American society today in
our economic, educational, criminal justice systems, and other arenas, creating
inequality in the opportunities, liberties and privileges afforded to our citizenry and
can be defined as oppression; and
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 10

WHEREAS, this systemic oppression of Black Americans impedes the ability to effect
needed change in our society; and
WHEREAS, this stagnation in the needed progress toward strengthening the rights,
voices, and influences of Black Americans, now actively taints the American spirit
and rends the fabric of our society as a whole; and
WHEREAS, all Americans, including all Black Americans, deserve a better future that
acknowledges past and present contributions in building America into a successful
and vital democratic power; and
WHEREAS, our Village of Croton-on-Hudson is situated on land once inhabited by
the Kitchawan tribe, part of the Wappinger Confederacy of the Algonquin Nation,
but was settled by Europeans, some of whom profited from slavery; and
WHEREAS, our community today should acknowledge past and present systemic
injustices, and how these injustices contribute to the adverse conditions many Black
Americans confront today,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, systemic racism, inequality, and
disenfranchisement, remain serious problems in American life that require
sustained, deep, and abiding responses to overcome; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, we are each part of this unsettling national reality, as
residents of the Village of Croton–on–Hudson, the County of Westchester, the State
of New York and the United States, and therefore we each share responsibility for
resolving this challenge; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, on behalf of and in the name of the entire community, stands with our
Black American friends and neighbors and joins in an ongoing and courageous
struggle for justice for all in the United States.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh advised that this resolution came from the “Diversity and Inclusion
Committee” and they requested that it be approved.
Trustee Habib stated that he is the liaison to the “Diversity and Inclusion
Committee”; the Committee is a very well run, progressive and considerate
Committee handling many issues and commends their work.
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 11

Trustee Horowitz said that it is important for all of us to acknowledge past and
present injustices, racism and violence towards Black people on all levels of society
and to accept the challenge to work together towards creating a more equitable and
just society in this country and thanked the “Diversity and Inclusion Committee” for
their quick response to this cry for justice, “no justice no peace”.
8.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
May 18, 2020 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9.

REPORTS

Trustee Simmons advised that a Blood Drive will be held this Thursday at the
Municipal Building from 10am to 4pm; walk-ins are welcome, but they do ask
that an appointment be made.
Trustee Horowitz advised that “Juneteenth” is also known as “Freedom Day”,
June 19, 1865 is the official end of slavery in the United States and there are a
lot of “Juneteenth” celebrations and events in Westchester including our own
“Black Lives Matter” rally in Croton this Friday at Vassallo Park from 3:005:30pm.
Trustee Habib thanked Croton Historian Marc Cheshire for educating him on
Croton’s history and looks forward to having him speak at the opening
meeting of the “Croton Business Council”. Trustee Habib stated that he
learned that in 1932 Croton unified the Harmon area and the Upper
Village/Mount Airy area during a very tense, emotional and litigious couple of
years. Trustee Habib stated that he enjoyed talking to Mr. Cheshire about
this time because it is his best hope that Croton will always stay united on
the principles that he sees coming out of this Board.
Trustee Gallelli thanked Bryan Healy for being our “Zoom” expert and for
maximizing our meetings; she also spoke with Bryan Healy today, our Village
“2020 Census” Chair, to see where we are with regards to our community’s
response; the Village did pick up a little bit and we are now at 76.6%; starting
August 11th “Census Enumerators will be going door to door visiting those
addresses who have not sent in their forms and encouraged those who have
not responded to please do so.
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 1, 2020
Page 12

Mayor Pugh stated that he had the honor of presiding over the moving up
ceremony for “Cub Scout Pack 28” making their transition from “Cub Scouts
to “Boy Scouts”.
Mayor Pugh reminded everyone that early voting has begun for the Primaries
and directed everyone to the Village’s Web Site (Crotononhudson-ny.gov) for
more information.
Village Manager King advised that a Work Session will be held next Monday,
June 22nd.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz; the motion was seconded
by Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote. 8:03pm.
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

12

