A Special Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, July 13, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Trustee Habib
Trustee Simmons
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 12:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #116 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB and seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELI, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib
Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor
Pugh Aye.
Home Rule message requesting enactment of New York State
Assembly bill A9691-A and New York Senate bill S7740-A
WHEREAS, on December 16, 2019, the Village Board of Trustees adopted a
resolution affirming its support for a residential parking permit system in the
Harmon neighborhood on the following streets: Hastings Avenue and Young
Avenue; and
WHEREAS, the Village’s elected state representatives, Assemblywoman
Sandra Galef and State Senator Peter Harckham, have introduced companion
bills in the state legislature to enact the residential parking permit system on
the aforementioned streets; and
WHEREAS, the Village is required to formally submit a home rule request to
the legislature,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that on behalf of the Village of Croton,
the Village Board of Trustees hereby requests from the Senate (S7740-A) and
the Assembly (A9691-A) of the State of New York the enactment of a special
law, otherwise known as a Home Rule request, which legislation entitled, “An
Act to amend the vehicle and traffic law, in relation to implementing a
residential parking system in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson” would allow

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 13, 2020
Page 2

for a residential parking permit system for Hastings Avenue and Young
Avenue.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib suggested that the wording in the “Now Therefore Be It
Resolved” clause of the resolution be amended to make it clear that this
request is only asking the state legislature to give the Village the authority to
enact such a system, and that the passage of this resolution does not enact
it.
Trustee Gallelli agreed with the sentiments expressed by Trustee Habib.
Mayor Pugh suggested replacing the word “implement” with “allow for”. All
were amenable to such a change.

3.

REPORTS

Mayor Pugh announced that Bruce Kauderer has been appointed as the
coordinator of the Municipal Place Advisory Task Force.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Habib; the motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote. 12:10pm.

Respectfully submitted,
Bryan Healy, Secretary to the Village Manager

_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

2

