MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, July 26, 2020 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Joel Gingold
Len Simon
Brian Pugh

Absent:
David Goldman (on leave)
Jon Katz (on vacation)
Niall Kelleher (unavailable)
John Habib (sudden family issue)

Non-members wishing to attend are asked to RSVP to energywiz@aol.com to verify meeting date,
time, and location, which may be adjusted to meet committee member requests. [Bracketed] text
relates to actions subsequent to this meeting.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Scheduled guests: none
Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:
- Food scrap recycling: Nothing new to report on our pilot program. It still needs a project manager.
- EV/EVSE: On July 6, Rochelle O’Mara (school district transportation manager) responded to our
offer to help develop a list of ways that the bus depot needs to be upgraded to manage EV school
buses:
“We are continuing our research into the electric buses. Myself and our mechanics went to White
Plains to see their buses and talk to the mechanics on 6/16. We are meeting with the Blue Bird
[preferred bus manufacturer] team next week at their location on Long Island to check out the
electric buses Bay Shore/Suffolk Transportation is using. So we are on our way. Thank you for
your expertise and support. The consensus in White Plains is the same as what we feel. Diesel
and gas are still the way to go but the electric buses do hold promise for the future [emphasis
added]. I will keep you posted. Thanks for thinking of us.”

On July 16, the PSC issued an order that pushes utilities to provide more support for charger
installations. Additionally, the New York State Dept. of Environmental Conservation (DEC) is
allocating $48.8 million from the Volkswagen diesel emissions scandal settlement to transit bus and
school bus operators and EV charging station owners. It’s presently unclear if that includes only
vehicles, or if site and electric service alterations to allow chargers would also be supported.
- Solar projects: We now have three in process:
- Work on the DPW rooftop job is essentially complete. Testing is underway. As of last Friday, its
capacity is about 70% subscribed. Power deliveries should start in Oct. – Nov. Several groups
(C100, C4C, Indivisible, Village eblast) assisted with marketing via mass emails. Ecogy offered
interested out-of-towners (mostly from Ossining) the option to instead sign up for Ecogy’s Arcadia
Farm site (https://ecogyenergy.com/arcadiacommunitysolar) in Yorktown. It’s a tad smaller than
DPW (~250 kW) and should be completed during September.
- On the Croton Landing canopy job, issues are still being ironed out with paperwork needed to
submit to Con Ed for assessing interconnection issues and cost. A design change is being made to
accommodate boats on trailers. With regard to relocating 4 trees, CAC members Janet Monaghan
and Guy Pardee OKed the relocations on July 6. Guy got a price to relocate and maintain the trees
1

for 3 years, which was sent to Ecogy to work into its rent offering. If no other issues arise, earliest
we might see power from it might be next spring.
- On June 29, the RFI for the train station parking lot solar canopy job was distributed to 168
NYSERDA-listed solar contractors, eliciting 24 responses. In the draft RFP, parking lot sections
that would receive canopies were adjusted slightly at the request of the Fire Dept. The RFP was
emailed July 24 for arrival Monday, July 27. Deadline for proposals is Sept. 11. A pre-bid meeting
in the basement community room in the municipal building (with social distancing) is scheduled for
noon August 6.
The committee discussed promoting the train station project’s power output and ~10% discount to
local small businesses to assist their recovery from COVID. Doing so would keep the power in
Croton (thus cutting our community’s carbon footprint) and help those businesses. It would also
expedite the vendor’s task in fully subscribing the project. To instead do so only for residences
could require over 500 to subscribe. Subsequent to the meeting, John Habib was again asked to
provide his list from the Croton Business Council (CBC).
- NYPA’s 100% renewable power offering: The following was received July 7 from Jessica Waldorf,
director for that program.
“NYPA’s Blended Power Products are live and available for customers to reach out to us for a rate proposal
on the various products available. Those include both fixed and variable rate and corresponding levels of
green power supply (standard, majority (51%) green, and 100% green) [emphasis added]. The final
marketing materials should be released by our Marketing department within the next couple of weeks and
include a fact sheet and FAQ document.”

Bottom line: sit tight, documents and forms are on their way.
Recruitment/Outreach:
- Nothing additional to report with regard to the school district, library, or other groups.
Communications:
Re: FOIL request on power consumption at the Metro-North train yard. NYPA claims it has no
documents and - if it did - was not required to give us any, according to a court decision from years
ago. A similar request was made on July 15 to the MTA’s Sustainability Director (Kerry-Jane King),
but no response has been received yet. The point of this effort is to more accurately determine our
community GHG inventory, instead of relying on the generic economically-based emission factors
used in the 2012 inventory for Hudson Valley towns developed by a consultant for NYSERDA.
Climate Smart Community (CSC): On July 13, Lindsay spoke with Hastings village trustee Mary
Lambert who sits on its Climate Smart Community committee. We discussed how it handled the
work load to attain bronze CSC certification in April, a variety of tech issues, and its plans to secure
silver certification. Bottom line: they got a lot of the work done by a now-departed college intern.
On July 24, Lindsay spoke at the Bike-Ped Committee’s Zoom meeting to ask that group to seek a
VB resolution on a Complete Streets policy. Much of that committee’s work already fits such a
policy; no new projects or expenses would be needed. Such a resolution would help secure 4 more
2

CSC points, while guiding future transportation policy toward safer and more accessible
transportation in the village. Its chair (Matt Schuerman) agreed to follow up on that option.
Ongoing/new business:
- Joel reported on a webinar covering assistance from universities to state/provincial and local
governments on climate change issues. Those efforts are focused on nearby large cities and the
states/provinces in which they are located. Resilience, sea level rise, and building improvements
are among major issues. Joel concluded that none of that work is presently relevant to our
efforts, as little has been done with small municipalities. His summary is attached at the end of
these minutes. He also briefly discussed activities he observed in other local climate-related
groups.
- Len reported on his compilation of 5 local foundations that financially supported Bedford 2020 in the
$1,000s to $10,000s last year. Depending on how COVID impacts State grants to be announced in
the fall, we may need to start focusing on such funding sources to support our future work. He
pointed out how most (if not all) of those supporters reside in or near Bedford, and tend to give
grants to educational institutions instead of directly to municipalities.
He felt that 3 of the 5 (Kohlberg, Durst, Endeavor) were possibilities. All (except Durst) appear to
be closely held family foundations with little available public data. Nevertheless, he was able to
piece together enough info from a variety of sources to assess which might be worth further
exploration. His report is attached at the end of these minutes. The committee developed an idea
for seeking a grant that might go to Pace University to develop internships to help local
communities (e.g., Croton) with their climate actions. Lindsay will flesh that out for future
discussion. Len will also follow-up with his investigation of funding sources of 5 national climate
action organizations for a report at or Sept. 27 meeting.
- HeatSmart results: On July 9, Lauren Brois (formerly with EnergizeNY, now with SW) shared
results from the two local 8-month campaigns that ran in 2019: Hastings-Dobbs Ferry and BedfordLewisboro-Pound Ridge. While better in the latter (where NYSEG power is cheaper and there is
little or no gas service), those numbers were still disappointing. Out of 300 enrollees, a total of 16
GSHP and 3 ASHP installations occurred. Hastings and Dobbs Ferry (which are more like Croton)
are in Con Ed where power is more expensive and gas service is common. Enrollment in those two
towns was comparable (254) but only 4 GSHP and 2 ASHP installations occurred. By comparison,
our oil-to-gas conversion program had about 180 enrollees, and saw over 30 homes converted.
[Subsequently, Lauren told Lindsay that HeatSmart had done poorly throughout the State.]
Bottom line: A great deal of work and time was expended on the HeatSmart programs, with little to
show for it. To produce more conversions, heat pump economics need to significantly improve.
To that end, Con Ed recently (in June) almost doubled* the GSHP incentive to $2,850 per 10,000
Btuh (i.e., $3,420 a ton). That – plus the 26% federal tax credit (to the end of 2021) – could bring
the net installed cost closer to that of an oil-to-gas conversion. Annual $ savings (Con Ed electric
vs. 2019 oil) would still be less. Installations remain limited, however, to homes having existing
ducted heating and cooling distribution and (in Croton) away from our aquifer.
* https://www.coned.com/en/our-energy-future/natural-gas-efficiency-and-alternatives/electricheating-and-cooling-equipment/save-thousands-on-a-geothermal-system
3

A more realistic opportunity may instead stem from Con Ed’s recent hike in its incentive for DHW
heat pumps, which is now up to $1,000. Together with the (up to) $300 federal tax credit, that could
cover almost all of the equipment cost. We briefly discussed a “DHW conversion” program like our
oil-to-gas effort, e.g., convert XX units at one time to get an installation cost break from a local
contractor. Lindsay subsequently invited SW to discuss with us a DHW heat pump program (no
GSHP or ASHP) at our Sept. 27 meeting.
- Community Gardens update: while unable to attend, Niall provided the following report.
“Both gardens achieved full capacity last week. The gardeners are looking forward to breaking new
ground in Gouveia Park and would like to know when the village will be available to allow this to
happen. There is already a pond and stream on the property so we do not anticipate water being
an issue. Our only need would be a fence to keep deer at bay. The current gardener fees have
almost paid for the Municipal Garden fence (approximately 2 years left to finish). We could use the
same strategy to fund the new fence in Gouveia Park.”
- Stretch Code update: Prior to the meeting, Brian Pugh got a response regarding possible tax
assessments on energy-related home improvements. Bottom line: additions of them to an existing
or new home would not trigger extra assessments. That analysis included extra insulation, better
windows, any form of solar, heat pump, EV charger, or improvements to make a home ready for
them. There would thus be no financial incentive that could be offered to encourage their
installation under a stretch code.
Date for our next meeting: Sept. 27, to allow for our usual summer recess. Lauren Brois of SW
has been invited to speak on a possible mini-HeatSmart program for Croton that would involve
replacing only existing electric resistance DHW heaters with heat pump hot water heaters.

4

SUMMARY OF SECOND NATURE WEBINAR ON
ENGAGING IN CROSS-SECTOR CLIMATE ACTION WITH LOCAL
AND STATE/PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Joel E. Gingold
On July 15, 2020 I attended the subject webinar. The panelists included:
Alex Maxwell – Second Nature – Moderator
Dennis Carlberg – Boston University (BU)
John Madden – University of British Columbia – Vancouver, Canada (UBC)
Marjorie Kaplan – Rutgers University – New Brunswick (RU)
Peter Stiling – University of South Florida – Tampa (USF)
Summary and Conclusions
Each of the panelists reviewed the projects in which their respective universities are participating with
various state and municipal organizations and coalitions. The bottom line for the Sustainability
Committee is that these efforts are focused on much larger groups in their local area or state/province
and there is little being done with small municipalities such as Croton, except as they may be part of
a larger coalition. An earlier exploration of possible services offered by SUNY, New York’s member
of the university coalition centered at Stony Brook, did not yield anything of value to the committee.
In response to a specific question regarding interactions with small municipalities, the responses were
rather vague and unspecific. The only possible benefit to the committee might be from some of the
on-line tools developed by UBC, although these appear to be largely educational.
Boston University
BU, in combination with several other local universities (Harvard, MIT, Northeastern, Tufts, et al – quite
a powerful group) is partnering with the City of Boston and representatives of the private sector,
particularly real estate interests, in the Green Ribbon Commission to implement Boston’s Climate
Action Plan. Efforts focus on bringing GHG emissions to net zero by 2050, resilience to sea level rise
and other climate change hazards, improving building energy efficiency (40% of GHG emissions)
including an Energy Star rating for buildings, social equity, etc.
The Commission has held meetings and seminars, etc. on various relevant topics, created a Climate
Action Exchange to disseminate information, as well as working directly on climate remediation
projects. The Commission receives funding from a variety of private foundations in the Boston area.
University of British Columbia
UBC’s campus contains 500+ buildings and, including students, faculty, support staff, and others living
there is, in effect a city of about 80,000. The campus is considered a living laboratory for climate
related projects. UBS has executed a MOU with Metro Vancouver, which includes the city and
surrounding municipalities. One major effort is the government-funded Coastal Adaption Project
addressing climate impacts on the seacoast and rivers in the Vancouver area. There is also an
emphasis on improving building energy efficiency and creating affordable housing.
5

UBC has established the Sustainability Scholars Program under which graduate students in various
disciplines work on specific climate related projects with municipalities, etc. in the area. Funding for
various initiatives is provided by the federal, provincial, and city governments.
Rutgers University
RU is an active member of the New Jersey Climate Change Alliance, which also includes members
from the private sector, NGOs, and various governmental agencies. The group fosters analysis and
research and provides outreach through conferences, workshops, and reports on various climate
related issues. A major focus is on the impact of sea level rise and increased storm intensity on the
New Jersey coast. Another guiding document is the State Coastal Management Plan.
When working in specific areas, the Alliance members establish a Practitioners Panel of local
representatives from the “real world” to provide local guidance and commentary on its work. The
focus is heavily on statewide projects and municipalities are generally only involved as members of
a larger group in the area under study.
University of South Florida
The State of Florida is way behind other states in addressing climate issues. At one point recently the
term, “climate change” was banned from all official documents, web sites and the like. Local utilities
have resisted the installation of solar energy facilities (although the Solar Energy Industries Assoc.
lists Florida as the No 4 state in solar capacity). Thus, the focus of the USF work is in resilience. Low
lying areas of the state (which is most of it) are experiencing intrusion of saltwater into drinking water
supplies, frequent flooding, spread of disease, disruption of transportation, and problems with
evacuation in the face of hurricanes.

6

Review of Foundation Funding Sources for Sustainability Committee Projects: PART II
Funding
Source

Climate Change/
Energy Efficiency Awards/ Focus

Municipal
Eligibility/
Size Factors

The Kohlberg
Foundation

The Foundation works within
three major categories: health
and medical research,
education and the
environment. The Foundation
is headquartered in Mt. Kisco.

Grants are
only given
to
organizati
ons with
501(c)(3)
status.

Matchin
g
Share

Grant
Amounts

Grant
Durati
on

Grant
Calendar

In latest annual report
available (2018) The
Foundation includes
these grants:

The Foundation does
not accept
unsolicited proposals
but will respond to a
letter of inquiry. We
could inquire
regarding public
sector grant
eligibility.

$2,000 to Bedford 2020 for
local environmental
projects and education;
$20,000 in General
Operating Support to
Teatown Lake
Reservation

Notes

---

---

--Unlike many other
foundations, they
fund general
operating support.

$10,000 to the
Environmental Defense
fund for their Climate
Corps program for MBA
candidates
$1,000 to Westchester Land
Trust for operating
support

The Durst
Organization

"The Durst Organization has been
a recognized leader and
innovator in the field of
sustainable building.
As leaders in environmentally
responsible development, the
Durst family has a natural
affinity for community groups
working to make the City's



In sustainability they are
currently contributing to :
New York League of
Conservation Voters,
National Audubon Society,
Trust for Public Land and the
The Lower East Side Ecology
Center

7

"Whatever the nature
of your inquiry, we
welcome the
opportunity to
respond".
Contributions come
from the company,
not the Family
Foundation which

neighborhoods greener and
more livable.
Funding
Source

Climate Change/
Energy Efficiency Awards/ Focus

The Christian
A. Johnson
Endeavor
Foundation

Giving concentrated on private
institutions of higher learning
at the baccalaureate level in
the U.S. and Europe and
performing arts organizations
in NYC - occasional support for
perceived needs in other areas
of education and the arts
(likely source for Bedford
funding)

---

Small foundation ($2.3 million in
assets in 2018) - no indication of
climate change, energy
conservation or sustainability
activity. Grants are focused in the
performing arts area.

---

Howard and
Sarah D.
Solomon
Foundation

Ralph and
Ricky Lauren
Family
Foundation

No evidence of activity in climate
change, energy conservation or
sustainability. Recent contributions to
organizations like: Park Avenue
Synagogue, Statue of Liberty Ellis
Island Foundation, Dalton School,
Clinton Foundation and NY Stem
Cell Foundation.

Municipal
Eligibility/
Size Factors

Matchin
g
Share

Grant
Amounts

Grant
Durati
on

Grant
Calendar

Example of recent giving:
The Environmental
Changemaker Fellowship
Program, Bennington
College $290,000
The Yale Program on
Climate Change
Communication
Grant to the Bedford 2020
Coalition was for $16,000
in 2017.

does not appear to
be involved in
sustainability grants.
Notes

We can contact to
discuss Committee
work and determine
if a partnership with
college is flexible.

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

The Solomon’s reside in
Bedford Hills.

---

In addition to Bedford 2020
grant, Foundation has
made numerous grants to
other Bedford-basedorganizations
Mr. Lauren resides in
Bedford.

8

