Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, August 3, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:45pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHES

Trustee Simmons made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
3.

$35,810.65
$2,423.38
$15,400.00
$25,685.56
643.50

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
Aliyah Simpson asked how the process works for hiring a Police Chief and
commented that the ban on leaf blowers could impact landscaping
services adversely.
Mayor Pugh explained that the hiring of a Police Chief must be consistent
with all the rules and regulations of the “Westchester County Department
of Civil Service”; there is an extensive process that the Village is required
to follow and all hiring must be approved by the County.
Ty West asked if noise level readings can be done at the Dog Park.
Village Manager King advised that the Village has a “noise decibel
reader” and requested that the Police Department have an officer go
there over the weekend to take some readings.
James Miller stated that he is very supportive of the “Black Rock” Dog
Park and does not think that the experiences of the few homeowners who
have complained is enough to outweigh the many dog owners who

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 3, 2020
Page 2

appreciate it and requested that “Park Rangers” spend more time down
there and report back to the Board.
Liz M. Hiraldo asked the Board not to move the Dog Park.
Michele Celarier asked the Board not to move the Dog Park, especially
not to Croton Landing and suggested “Gouveia Park” if it had to be
moved.
David Mitchum asked that the Dog Park not be moved but if it had to be
moved it should be moved to “Gouveia Park”.
Jill Anderson indicated that a petition with forty-three signatures was sent
to the Board asking that the Board maintain the Dog Park at “Black Rock”
and also indicated that the “Recreation Advisory Committee”
recommended that as well, the e-mail also indicated that “New York
State DEC” employees go to “Black Rock” to test their equipment and
they are down there sometimes at night and that the noise they are
making could be misconstrued as noise coming from dog owners.
Carolyn Campbell stated that she supports the “Black Rock” Dog Park
and has not heard unnecessary loud barking and believes that dog
owners are respectful and asked that it not be moved.
4. PUBLIC HEARING - Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2020 to amend
Chapter 68 of the Village Code entitled “Parks and Recreation Areas” to
prohibit the use of remote-controlled aircraft in Village-owned parks.
A motion to open the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Habib. Motion
was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Trustee Habib asked if we have any templates for a discretionary
permitting process or does this have to be a total prohibition and would
like to see some research done to allow a permitted exception on Village
owned property.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that there are other rules and
restrictions that govern the use of drones, this Local Law is specific to the
use of them in Village owned parks and not just drones. Village Attorney
Whitehead said that there are other municipalities that issue permits as
opposed to an out-right ban.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 3, 2020
Page 3

Trustee Gallelli said that there is something to be said for Trustee Habib’s
suggestion about looking at some permitting options, and while she
cannot speak to “model aircraft”, there are many useful applications for
the use of drones such as launching them from a wide open park or used
for photography purposes if there is an event at the park. Trustee Gallelli
added that she is not inclined to think that “Gouveia” is particularly
suited for launching these.
Village Manager King stated that if we make any significant changes in
this version of the law it will require re-noticing.
There being no questions to come before the Board a motion to continue
the Public Hearing until the August 17, 2020 meeting was made by
Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved
with a 5-0 vote.
5.

CORRESPONDENCE
a. E-mail from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated July 29, 2020
advising the Board of membership changes.
b. Letter from Jud Ramaker, Race Director for the Harry Chapin Memorial
Run Against Hunger dated July 27, 2020 updating the Board on this
year’s virtual event.
c. Letter from Bruce M. Kauderer Coordinator of the “Municipal Place
Advisory Task Force” enclosing a report from the “Municipal Place
Advisory Task Force” regarding the draft “Request for Proposals” (RFP)
for the development of the “Katz Property” located at 41-51 Maple
Street.
Mayor Pugh stated that this proposal will be discussed at the August
24th Work Session.
d. Compilation of energy data from municipal buildings for 2019 in
accordance with the Village’s “Benchmarking Policy”. To view the datagraph you may log onto the following:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Benchmarking%20(1).pdf

6.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 3, 2020
Page 4

Roseann Schuyler, Olcott Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked the Board to
please bring back the Public Comment on Non-Agenda Items section to
the agenda.
Mayor Pugh stated that the agenda format is in response to the
pandemic; the “Emergency Authorization” from the Governor authorizing
video conferencing expires on August 6 th, assuming it is renewed the
Board anticipates implementing a mechanism for public comment on
non-agenda items.
7.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #122 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, Westchester County operates a firing range at the county police
academy located in Valhalla, New York; and
WHEREAS, the County permits municipal police agencies to send their public safety
employees for firearms training purposes; and
WHEREAS, the County has provided an inter-municipal agreement which authorizes
the use of such facility at the cost of $630 per visit for the period ending July 31,
2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute an inter-municipal agreement with Westchester County for the use of the
county firing range for firearms training purposes at the cost of $630 per visit for
the period ending July 31, 2025.
Resolution #123 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 3, 2020
Page 5

WHEREAS, on July 21, 2020, the control panel at the Skyview Pump Station
malfunctioned, requiring a replacement; and
WHEREAS, the Village’s pump station maintenance contractor, All Makes Pump &
Motor Repair Inc. of Yorktown Heights, New York, completed the work at a cost of
$9,675; and
WHEREAS, as this emergency expense was unforeseen, funding for this expense
was not included in the 2020-2021 Sewer Fund budget,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $9,675 from Contingency Account #G1990.4000 to the
following accounts: G8120.4700-Sanitary Sewers-Equipment Repairs: $9,675.
Resolution #124 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on June 6, 2019, the owner of 41 Harrison Street submitted a request to
the Village for a right-of-way easement over Village property for access to a
proposed off-street parking area; and
WHEREAS, the Village strives to assist property owners in creating additional offstreet parking spaces in areas where they are lacking; and
WHEREAS, on July 24, 2007, a right-of-way easement was granted by the Village to
the owner of the adjoining property at 43 Harrison Street; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board discussed the applicant’s request in multiple board
work sessions in 2019 and 2020, and determined it to be in the best interest of the
neighborhood to approve of the request,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute an easement agreement providing a right-of-way
ingress and egress easement for the property located at 41 Harrison Street in a
form as approved by the Village Attorney; and

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 3, 2020
Page 6

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such easement agreement shall be filed with the
Westchester County Department of Land Records.
Resolution #125 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
accepts the letter of resignation for retirement purposes from Chief of Police Russel
H. Harper effective August 29, 2020.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that on behalf of the Board he thanked Chief Harper for his
service to the Croton community, Chief Harper did not make this decision lightly, he
spent forty years with the Croton Police Department and has dedicated his heart
and soul to the community and has done a tremendous amount in less than three
years as our Chief and we wish him all the best.
Resolution #126 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has had a lease agreement with the Holy Name of Mary
Roman Catholic Church (“the Church”) for a portion of the parcel located at 75
Benedict Blvd. (SBL 79.13-1-51) since 1972; and
WHEREAS, the lease agreement authorized the Village to use the parcel for
recreational purposes; and
WHEREAS, the lease allows for termination upon the written notice of ten days, and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has determined that it is in the best
interest of the Village to terminate the lease at this time,

6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 3, 2020
Page 7

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to provide written notice to the Church terminating the
aforementioned lease.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King explained that the Village was advised this past Friday by a
resident that “kick-boxing” classes were taking place at the above referenced
parcel and that they had also noticed that they had scheduled future classes.
Village Manager King stated that she was not successful in reaching out to the
business owner but when she finally reached someone from the church she
explained to them that they had already leased this property to the Village and that
they did not have the right to lease it again to a second entity. Village Manager
King stated that the business owner was not aware of the arrangement that the
Church had with the Village and because of that the Village had not received a
“Certificate of Insurance” from them. Village Manager King explained that in the
past the Village had made several attempts to convert the “Lease Agreement” into
a “License Agreement” so that the Village could make repairs to the basketball
court surface. Village Manager King explained that the Village did not want to make
those repairs until we had the assurance that we would have a “License
Agreement” in place for the use of this property for a number of years. Village
Manager King advised that since we did not succeed in getting a “License
Agreement” the basketball surface is deteriorating and she believes it is in the best
interest of the Village to get out from under the current agreement and allow the
Church to maintain their property at this time.
8.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on July 20, 2020
was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
9.

REPORTS

Trustee Simmons congratulated Gordon Ingalls on joining the Washington
Engine Company as an active member.
Trustee Horowitz also congratulated Gordon Ingalls on joining the Washington
Engine Company.

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 3, 2020
Page 8

Mayor Pugh congratulated Gordon Ingalls and the Ingalls family for what is
now a multi-family tradition of service in the Volunteer Fire Department.
Mayor Pugh advised that the “Community Solar Array” at the Public Works
Department is now one-hundred percent subscribed to. Mayor Pugh advised
that a “RFI” (Request for Information) was sent out to approximately twohundred solar installers within the “NYSERDA” program (New York State
Energy Research and Development Authority) for a “solar array” at the train
station and we have received expressions of interest from about twenty
companies; an in person walk-through is being arranged with the interested
parties.
Mayor Pugh advised that he has been in touch with the “New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation” with respect to the cold water
temperatures in the Croton River. Mayor Pugh explained that due to the
continued “Hydrilla” treatment and the increased flow of water over the
Croton Dam it has caused the water to be colder. Mayor Pugh stated that he
has been advised that the program will run until August 31 st at which time the
flow will be decreased and we should see some relief. Mayor Pugh stated that
this program is an attempt to eradicate the invasive “Hydrilla” species that
has infested the Croton River and the “DEC’s” attempt to prevent it from
entering into the Hudson River.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Habib; the motion was seconded by
Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:29pm.
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

8

