Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, August 17, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHES
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$100,201.21
$4,720.72
$876,913.67
3,452.65

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
E-mail from Leslie Simmons supporting “Black Rock” Dog Park and
requesting that the time be as long as possible.
E-Mail from Halle Clarke, 28 Quaker Bridge Road, states that she lives
one- hundred feet from the Dog Park and the noise nuisance is real, it is
unfair to have dogs barking during the hours that permit holders are
requesting because homes should be a place to relax and unwind. Ms.
Clarke reminded the Board that the weekend hours have always been
10am-4:00pm and the neighborhood is grateful to the Board for moving
the daily hours to 10am-4:00pm and asked that the Board keep those
hours and hopes that we can find a long term solution so that they can
finally put this conflict to rest.
Andrew Karp, 20 Quaker Bridge Road, said that he had written a letter and
sent it to the Board signed by his wife Deborah Cohen, Halle and Cliff
Clarke, Arthur and Sharon Redding, Adam and Rebecca Redondo, and
Robert and May Pearson. Mr. Karp stated that the letter encourages the
Board to maintain the current hours (10am-4pm) until the Dog Park can

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 2

be moved to a suitable non-residential location. Mr. Karp stated that
these hours give him and his neighbors welcome relief from barking dogs
in the morning and evening.
4. PUBLIC HEARING – Continuation of the Public Hearing regarding Local Law
Introductory No. 6 of 2020 to amend Chapter 68 of the Village Code
entitled “Parks and Recreation Areas” to prohibit the use of remotecontrolled aircraft in Village-owned parks.
There being no comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
5.

CORRESPONDENCE
a. Letter from Peter Lavery, 33 Finney Farm Road, dated August 8, 2020
objecting to the “Conservation Advisory Council’s recommendation for
legislation banning leaf blowers. To view the letter in its entirely you
may log onto the following:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/LTR.BLOWERS%20(2).pdf
b. Survey results from “Black Rock” permit holders. To view survey, you
may log onto the following:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/
Dog_Park_survey_results.pdf
Village Manager King advised that the Village also sent a letter and/or
email to the neighbors and we received the following responses: Adam
Redondo, 24 Quaker Bridge Road stated that he would like it moved to
Croton Landing; Robert and May Pearson, 26 Quaker Bridge Road
asked that it stay from 10am-4pm daily; James Love, 30 Quaker Bridge
Road, stated that he would like the Dog Park moved but at the very
least it should not be extended beyond the current 10am-4pm; Halle
Clarke, 28 Quaker Bridge Road, is asking that it be moved to Croton
Landing, Herbert and Marilyn Kretzer, 16 Quaker Bridge Road, are
asking for it to be moved to 8pm-11pm daily; Andrew Karp, 20 Quaker
Bridge Road, is requesting that the Board consider moving the park.
Mayor Pugh advised that the Board will be discussing this in a future
Work Session.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 3

c. Village Manager King’s Report dated August 17, 2020 regarding ConEdison’s response to Tropical Storm Isaias. To view report, you may
log onto the following:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Con_Ed_Report.pdf
6. PRESENTATION By Dan Walsh of Westchester Power, regarding the 2020
Westchester Power Community Choice Aggregation Contract Renewal. To
view the entire presentation and discussion, you may log onto the
following Web Site. https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=812
7.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS Jill Anderson, 10 Daily Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she supports
the Dog Park at “Black Rock” and thanked the Board for taking the
survey and looks forward to the additional comments being posted as
well. Ms. Anderson stated that she would like to see the hours returned
back to their original hours and believes that outdoor activities should be
expanded. Ms. Anderson stated that after speaking with many people,
relocating the Dog Park does not seem to be in the best interest of many
residents and suggested following the recommendations of the
“Recreation Advisory Committee.
Leslie Simmons stated that she supports the Dog Park not just for a space
for our dogs but as a community space to interact with other dog owners
and she has had nothing but positive experiences while being there. Ms.
Simmons said that many of us are juggling working from home and kids
with remote learning, the park has provided a safe space for our dogs to
be able to play and exercise and creates a healthy space for our
community. Ms. Simmons also stated that it would not make sense to
spend more money and time to re-create a space that is already an ideal
place and encouraged the Board not to make any changes and looks
forward to the hours being changed back to the way it was.
Len Simon, Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, thanked Manager
King for her report on Con-Edison’s response to Tropical Storm Isaias as
well as the entire staff, our Police Department, Volunteer Fire Department
and Ambulance services for everything they did to support the
community during and after the storm. Mr. Simon stated that the workers
on the streets certainly were not to be blamed, they are actually part of
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 4

the solution, but rather the blame goes to the company to whom they
work for. Mr. Simon directed everyone to read Mayor Pugh’s letter to the
Editor in the current issue of the Gazette and hopes that the Mayor’s
points become front and center because when it comes to service
reliability, getting tougher on Con-Edison could help, but it may be a good
time to look at other options. To listen to Mr. Simon’s comments in its
entirety, log onto the following:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=812
8.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #127 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye,
Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on August 5, 1988, the New York Local Government Records Law, which
provides for the management of municipal records, went into effect; and
WHEREAS, on March 20, 1989, the Village Board adopted a resolution authorizing
the use of Schedule MU-1 to manage the retention periods of various governmental
records; and
WHEREAS, New York State has worked to combine the records schedule for local
governments with those that existed for counties, miscellaneous local governments
and school districts to create one management schedule, the Retention and
Disposition Schedule for New York Local Government Records (LGS-1); and
WHEREAS the Village must adopt the use of this schedule by board resolution,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the LGS-1, issued pursuant to Article 57-A
of the Arts and Cultural Affairs Law, and containing legal minimum retention periods
for local government records, is hereby adopted by the Village Board of Trustees for
use by all officers in legally disposing of valueless records listed therein; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that in accordance with Article 57A, only those records
will be disposed of that are described in LGS-1, after they have met the minimum
retention periods described therein; and
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 5

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that only those records will be disposed of that do not
have sufficient administrative, fiscal, legal or historical value to merit retention
beyond established legal minimum periods.
Resolution #128 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Justice Court has received funding through the New York
State Justice Court Assistance Program (JCAP); and
WHEREAS such funding has been provided on an emergency basis to deal with
COVID-19 expenses,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized
to amend the 2020-2021 General Fund Budget in the amount of $1,000 for monies
received through the New York State JCAP as follows:
GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A1110.3089 - STATE AID JCAP FUNDING

$1,000

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A1110.4200 - JUSTICE COURT - SUPPLIES

$1,000

Resolution #129 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on April 20, 2015, the Village Board of Trustees approved a resolution to
enter into an agreement to participate in a Sustainable Westchester Community
Choice Aggregation (“CCA”) program for the purpose of procuring an energy
supplier who will contract with the Village to supply energy for its residents; and

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 6

WHEREAS, on February 20, 2018, the Village Board of Trustees authorized the
Village Manager to sign the Electric Service Agreement with Sustainable
Westchester and Constellation Energy to join CCA; and
WHEREAS, on September 4, 2018, the Village Board of Trustees authorized
participation in the program for the years 2019 and 2020; and
WHEREAS, Sustainable Westchester has provided the Village with a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) for the period beginning January 1, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Memorandum of Understanding with
Sustainable Westchester for the period beginning January 1, 2021, subject to the
Village Attorney’s final approval.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that while this process has become somewhat routine, we should
really celebrate what a great achievement this is for our environment; this is a
program that has won awards from the “EPA” and is a model for how local
governments can take action and work in collaboration on a meaningful purpose.
Resolution #130 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS John Nikitopoulos joined the Village of
Department on August 5, 1986, as a police officer; and

Croton-on-Hudson

Police

WHEREAS Officer Nikitopoulos was promoted to Sergeant on February 19, 2008; and
WHEREAS Sergeant Nikitopoulos was promoted to Detective Sergeant on February
29, 2008; and
WHEREAS Det. Sgt. Nikitopoulos was promoted to Lieutenant on September 6,
2017; and
WHEREAS Russel H. Harper has submitted his resignation for retirement purposes
as Chief of Police effective August 29, 2020, after 40 years of service; and
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 7

WHEREAS there is currently no binding Westchester County Civil Service
Promotional List for the position of Chief of Police of the Village of Croton-onHudson,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that, in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Westchester County Department of Human Resources, Lt. John
Nikitopoulos, of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, is hereby provisionally appointed as
Chief of Police effective August 29, 2020, to serve at the pleasure of the Board until
the next civil service examination is administered and the certified eligible list is
received by the Village, at an annual salary of $165,000.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib expressed his gratitude to Chief Harper, no one has tried harder to
serve the Village and we are in good standing with the decisions that he has made
for our community and supports the promotion of Lieutenant Nikitopoulos.
Mayor Pugh expressed his gratitude to Chief Harper, he dedicated his entire career
to our Village and has been a tremendous leader for our Police Department and
while Lieutenant Nikitopoulos has some big shoes to fill, he believes he is the best
choice for this position.
Trustee Gallelli echoed the comments made by Trustee Habib and Mayor Pugh.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she had the opportunity to work with John Nikitopoulos
for many years and believes that he is very prepared and well suited for taking over
the role of Chief and while we will miss Chief Harper she believes we have a Chief
who will be equally affective.
Resolution #131 of 2020
On motion by TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution to consider lowering fees for outdoor dining was put forth for adoption.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that while the Village is concerned about those businesses that
are struggling, he is not sure that helping to support individual for-profit businesses
is the appropriate goal of public policy; the Village takes in over $300,000 annually
in park fees from our residents and times are tough for everyone and many regular
users of other Village services would have a fair claim for a reduction, but at the
same time the Village is also not immune to the larger economic picture and we
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 8

have a responsibility to our tax payers to protect our Village resources and to be
careful not to give out these reductions without extensive consideration. Mayor
Pugh stated that this is experimental, and we have to justify this as something that
provides a public benefit in the form of additional options and possibly additional
revenue. Mayor Pugh stated that if it is the same few businesses and it does not
generate any new attention, he believes we should end the experiment but if it
does result in an increase then we should put this in some form of a reformed fee
structure in our “Fee Schedule”.
Trustee Habib asked how many permits are issued and the revenue.
Bryan Healy advised that so far, we have issued it four times but to only one
business.
Village Manager King stated the “Street Vendor” license only allows two per area
and even by reducing the fee it will not do much since only two per area are
allowed.
After further discussion, the Board agreed to reduce the fees to $30.00 for Street
Vendors and Food Vendors at Village Parks. Motion was moved by TRUSTEE
SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB and adopted by the Board of Trustees of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call: Trustee
Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye,
Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request to consider the waiver or reduction of
certain fees for vendors; and
WHEREAS, a lower fee may result in the issuance of more permits, increasing
Village revenue and creating additional outdoor dining options for residents,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes, on an experimental basis, the below reduced fees:
Street Vendor License

$30.00

Food Vendor at Village Parks

$30.00

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such reduced fees shall be in effect through
October 31, 2020.
Resolution #132 of 2020
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 9

On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Nay, Mayor Pugh Aye. Motion passed with a
4-1 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request to permit the consumption and selling
of alcoholic beverages in Senasqua Park; and
WHEREAS, such request is permissible under Chapter 72 of the Village Code,
Alcoholic Beverages, provided the Village Board of Trustees authorizes such
practice,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the consumption and selling of alcoholic beverages in Senasqua Park
during the times and in accordance with the rules and regulations prepared by the
Village Manager; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that any vendor wishing to make use of this permission
shall pay a fee of $100.00 per day to the Village and have any applicable licenses
and insurance certificates on file in the office of the Village Clark.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King advised that under the regulations of the “State Liquor
Authority” only four permits during a twelve month period can be issued, it also
states that no child under the age of sixteen can be admitted onto the premises
where the event is held unless accompanied by a parent or guardian which could be
a consideration the Board should think about before voting on this. Village Manager
King added that based on some of the “SLA” (State Liquor Authority) licensing
terms, these licenses are issued for special events, if the Village had a concert night
or we were holding “Summerfest” the Village could allow the selling of alcohol but
she is not sure if the “SLA” would issue a license under the circumstances where it
is just a park event.
Trustee Simmons asked, if we are able to have liquor sold at “Summerfest” and
children under the age of sixteen can attend without a parent or guardian, why not
at “Senasqua Park”.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that typically the alcohol that is sold at events
like that are in specific areas, and those areas can be restricted.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 10

Trustee Simmons asked if it could be done at “Senasqua”, as an example in the
Gazebo area where kids could be restricted.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that what Manager King was speaking about is
the issuance of the License which the Village has nothing to do with and which are
issued by the “SLA” for events like the concert series. Village Attorney Whitehead
stated that the Board can authorize the Manager to issue the permit, but the
applicant would also have to meet “SLA” requirements for the License. Village
Attorney Whitehead added that she is not sure that this is the type of License the
“SLA” would issue under these circumstances since this is not a special event.
Mayor Pugh suggested that we let the “SLA” interpret their application and let them
decide whether to approve it or not.
Trustee Habib stated that he is familiar with the event based “SLA” approvals and
he has done some research and has it on direct authority from “SLA” that it is
subject to a government approving a non-event similar to this and then they would
issue the License and hold the vendor liable for all typical responsibilities.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she would not be in favor of this resolution and would
prefer that alcohol not be sold at the parks; she believes it creates a more friendly
family atmosphere without alcohol.
Village Manager King stated that the gate at “Senasqua Park” is locked by our “Gate
Guard” at 8:00pm so if the Board passes this resolution the hours cannot be past
8:00pm and they cannot be before 4:00pm on week days because we have the
“Croton Sailing School”; additionally, she does not believe that it can be after
“Labor Day” because we do not have a Gate Guard past “Labor Day”.
Village
Manager King stated that, given the fact that we have been told that it takes fifteen
days to get a License, this is a very short window and it might only be the “Labor
Day” weekend where it could be allowed.
Mayor Pugh stated that we discussed this issue previously about selling alcohol in
our parks and at the time we rejected it, but he believes that “Senasqua” is a good
compromise because it is a relatively isolated location, the presence of a Gate
Guard, rest room facilities and being able to lock the park once the park closes.
Mayor Pugh stated that since there are modest opportunities to take advantage of
this and that stringent guidelines will be upheld; he believes this is a reasonable
compromise.
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 11

Trustee Gallelli stated that she believes that with the limitations on the hours as
stated by Manager King, she believes it will have a relatively small impact.
Resolution #121 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was put forth for adoption.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 168 of the Village Code, Parks
and Recreation Areas, to prohibit the use of remote-controlled aircraft in Villageowned parks; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was opened on August 3, 2020, and closed on August
17, 2020,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2020 amending Chapter 168, Parks and
Recreation Areas, of the Village Code, which upon adoption becomes Local Law 9 of
2020.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that she thinks this is too broad, there should be limitations
and there has to be an examination of how one might launch an airplane or drone.
Trustee Gallelli added that there could be situations where it might be appropriate,
and we should look at a system or a criterion of when and how it might be allowed
but she does not think this should happen in “Gouveia Park”.
Trustee Simmons stated that he agrees with Trustee Gallelli, and while he feels
these things are a nuisance, there may be some instances where it might be
legitimate and would be in favor of having language to that affect.
Trustee Horowitz stated that remote control aircrafts are noisy and believes we do
not need them in our parks.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she is not an expert on drones but understands that
survey crews use drones and they may find it most advantageous to launch a drone
from a park such as “Croton Landing” which ultimately would fly someplace else, do
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 12

the survey work and photographs and then return and we should have a more
definitive law about the appropriateness of them.
Mayor Pugh recommended that the resolution be tabled. The Board agreed to table
the resolution.
9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on August 3, 2020
as amended was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on August 3,2020
was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on August 13,2020
was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
11. REPORTS
Trustee Gallelli thanked Manager King and the staff for putting together the
report on the recent outages. Trustee Gallelli stated that her home was
without power for seven plus days; the people in the streets working were
wonderful but the response from Con-Edison was horrendous.
Trustee Gallelli advised that this week is the one-hundredth anniversary of
the passing of the 19 Amendment and there are a number of events going
on; the Town of Cortlandt is hosting an event on Thursday via Zoom at
5:00pm that she will be participating in and encouraged everyone to go to
their Web Site to get the specifics on how to participate. Trustee Gallelli
stated that the 19th Amendment was and is important to so many people’s
lives and urged everyone to participate in events that are taking place.
Trustee Gallelli advised of the passing of Fran Allen who was a long time
friend of the Village of Croton on Hudson, she served on the Planning Board
for over fifteen years; she was extremely instrumental in many of the
development projects that the Planning Board reviewed over those fifteen
years and was also very instrumental in the “Millennium Pipeline” battle that
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 13

the Village fought and won. Trustee Gallelli stated that there is a lot more of
Ms. Allen that was written in her Obituary about her technical prowess but as
a personal friend, the passing of Fran was significant because she contributed
so much to the Village of Croton.
Trustee Habib stated that he lives in Half Moon Bay and did not suffer the
outages that the rest of the community had to endure but wants everyone to
understand that no one in this Village sits back and does not care about the
suffering of the residents; each and every government official and employee
cares and we will get to long terms solutions because we cannot ignore these
pending problems any further.
Mayor Pugh thanked the DPW, Police and our volunteer Fire Department and
EMS as well as our Administrative Staff who assisted us through this crisis.
Mayor Pugh stated that our Police Department has a “Special Needs Registry”
and they checked those homes daily, Bryan Healy and Paula DiSanto were
very creative in creating charging stations and Wi-Fi stations to try to
accommodate residents by setting up outdoor tents in the municipal parking
lot that allowed for social distancing. Mayor Pugh stated that his power was
not restored until Sunday and while it was not a personal hardship for him,
for many in the community it certainly was. Mayor Pugh stated that these
power outages can be particularly catastrophic for the most vulnerable
members of our community and it is why we have the Police check on them.
Mayor Pugh stated that it seems like Con-Edison has not learned from the
past and has certainly not prepared themselves nor made any improvements
to their operations and we need to join with our colleagues in government to
put an unprecedented amount of pressure on the Public Service Commission
as well as communicating to our State Legislatures our great displeasure on
how things were handled by not only Con-Edison but by our cellular service
providers as well. Mayor Pugh stated that we need to be vigilant and our
utility providers need to step up.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Habib; the motion was seconded by
Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 vote. 8:15pm.
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 17, 2020
Page 14

_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

14

