Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, September 8, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons
Village Clerk DiSanto

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$262,191.69
$10,017.69
3,002.44
$58,733.97
-

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
Jim Miller sent an e-mail regarding the discussion about the possibility of
moving the Dog Park to “Croton Landing”. Village Manager King corrected
Mr. Miller’s comment that the Village has a Lease with the County and a
“Conservation Easement” held by the “Open Space Conservancy”. Village
Manager King explained that the Village owns the property outright and
that the Easement is for the northern part of the property and not where
she had suggested putting the Dog Park.
4. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Memo from Village Engineer Daniel O’Connor dated August 25, 2020
requesting an extension for three permits for the property located at
120 Scenic Drive West and 10 Newton Court.
On motion by Trustee Simmons and seconded by Trustee Horowitz the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request for an extension for three permits for the property located at
120 Scenic Drive West and 10 Newton Court. Motion was approved

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 2

with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
b. Letter from Michelle Philips, Secretary to the “Public Service
Commission” dated August 27, 2020 in response to a letter Mayor
Pugh and Supervisor Puglisi sent to the Governor regarding the
utilities’ response to the August 2020 tropical storm Isaias. To view all
letters, you may log onto the following:
https://crotononhudson.novusagenda.com/Agendapublic/
CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=5247&MeetingID=745
c. Receipt of a Special Permit Application from Hudson National Golf Club
to amend their existing “Special Permit” for the installation of solar
panels on their property.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that because of the way the
Village set up “Community Solar Systems”, it will need to be on a
separate lot and as such they will need to sub-divide a fifteen acre plot
of land on their property. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that they
are in essence changing the property that is the subject of Hudson
National’s “Special Permit” and they will need a review to amend that
“Special Permit” as well as a “SEQRA Review”. Village attorney
Whitehead stated that she would like to review their entire package
before we move forward.
Resolution Approving an expenditure of $10,000 for Review of
“Hudson National’s” Application.
On motion by Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Habib the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
expenditure of $10,000 for the review of “Hudson National’s”
application. Motion was approved with the following Roll Call Vote:
Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee
Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
d. Letter from Waddell Stillman, President of “Historic Hudson Valley”
dated September 2, 2020 regarding this year’s “Great Jack O’Lantern
Blaze” operations. To view their letter, you may lot onto the following:

2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 3

file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/
Ltr_Croton_re_COVIDprecautions_Blaze_2020.pdf
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –
Kory Salomone, attorney representing the applicants of 25 S. Riverside
Avenue advised that the project is the assemblage of four parcels for a
total of approximately 1.2 acres. Mr. Salomone advised that this
property was specifically mentioned in the Village’s 2020
“Comprehensive Plan Amendment” and based on that Amendment the
property was rezoned to allow for multi-family mixed use. To view the
plans you may log onto the following:
https://crotononhudson.novusagenda.com/Agendapublic/CoverSheet.aspx
?ItemID=5248&MeetingID=745).
Trustee Habib asked if there are any
technologies imbedded into this project.

cutting

edge

renewable

Mr. Rossi advised that they will be installing roof-top photovoltaic solar
panels, the intent is to create enough solar power to offset the core
amenities within the building and to provide a community solar package
so that residents can take advantage of the discounts. Mr. Rossi advised
that the entire building will be electric; all of the heat and air-conditioning
will be accomplished by utilizing highly efficient air-source heat pumps
and they will be exploring ground source geo-thermal as well.
Greg Maher, 44 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, applauded the
developers for stepping forward with this project; the renderings look
beautiful; the building appears to be pretty close to the road which was
the hope for many people. Mr. Maher also applauded them for
considering the geo-thermic which he knows is expensive as well as their
plans to install photovoltaic solar panels on the roof and heat pumps
which are energy efficient. Mr. Maher stated that he would like to see
more affordability (above the ten percent) in this project and asked if
they would be willing to consider it.
Nance Shatzkin, 132 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated that
digging out a garage, while a significant additional cost, is a brilliant
solution for being able to put more units on that piece of property. Ms.
Shatzkin stated that the Village Board as “Lead Agency” will be helpful
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 4

because they have more tools at their disposal to grant the developer
some additional benefits in order for the Village to receive additional
benefits. Ms. Shatzkin stated that the potential to be eighty percent of
County medium for affordable housing rather than the sixty percent
would be an advantage to the community and supports this project.
Carol Shanesy, 47 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that getting
any affordable housing is wonderful but she would also love to see more
affordable units. Ms. Shanesy stated that she is acutely aware of housing
for older citizens and believes that this is a good project that meets a
need for diversity in terms of income as well as helping some of our older
residents stay in Croton.
Mayor Pugh asked what the average rents are at 375 South Riverside
Avenue?
Mr. Spagnoli advised that they range between $2,000 and $2,100.
To view comments in their entirety you may log onto the following site:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=816
6. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #133 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS Tropical Storm Isaias left the Municipal Building and DPW Garage with
unreliable internet service for multiple days; and
WHEREAS such interruption in service led to difficulties in responding to both storm
conditions and resident requests; and
WHEREAS WSG Consulting, the Village’s technology consultant, has proposed
adding a redundant internet connection at the cost of $200/month for both
buildings; and

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 5

WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2020-2021 General Fund
budget,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $1,800 from Contingency Account #A1990.4000 to the
following accounts:
A1640.4000 – Central Garage – Contractual:
A1650.4000 – Central Communications - Contractual:

$900
$900

Resolution #134 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board meeting
held on October 7, 2003; and
WHEREAS this local law called for the setting of Village fees through board
resolutions; and
WHEREAS, Krissy Gilligan, Parking Manager, has recommended the below changes
based on current usage of the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the following fees are hereby set:
Permit Cancellation

Preferred Permit
Non-Resident Permit
Resident Permit

$30.00
$20.00
$10.00

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the permit increases scheduled for September
1, 2020, for preferred and non-resident permit holders, and the increase scheduled
for December 1, 2020, for resident permit holders, are hereby rescinded.
Resolution #135 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 6

New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board meeting
held on October 7, 2003; and
WHEREAS this local law called for the setting of Village fees through board
resolutions; and
WHEREAS John Nikitopoulos, Chief of Police, is working to implement an online
system whereby residents and insurance companies will be able to request an
accident report online after paying the appropriate fee,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the following fees are hereby set:
Accident Reports

Individual
Corporation

$10.00
$25.00

Resolution #136 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABID, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Treasurer is requesting to amend the 2020-2021 Water Fund
Budget to reflect the proper chart of account coding,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the 2020-2021 Water Fund Budget in the amount of $275,000 as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
F9901.9010

$275,000

Decrease
F8310.9010

$275,000

Resolution #137 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 7

New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Ralph Rossi and Philip Spagnoli for a multi-residential building at 25 South
Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS the applicant has submitted a Short Environmental Assessment Form and
a Coastal Assessment Form,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby determines that
the proposed action is an unlisted action under SEQRA,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby declares its intent to
be the Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the proposed action and
authorizes the circulation of its intent to all involved and interested agencies,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby refers the special
permit application and associated documents to the Village Planning Board and
Village Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with Village law,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby directs the Village
Clerk to notify the Westchester County Planning Department, the Westchester
County Health Department and New York State Department of Transportation of this
application in accordance with law,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby directs the applicant
to establish an initial escrow fund of $10,000 for the purpose of review of this
application by the various Boards.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that the comments made will lay the groundwork for the
discussion that we will be having on many levels and in many forums with the
various Commissions and Boards that will be reviewing this.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Zoning Board will not be able to vote
until the Village Board completes the “SEQRA” and “Consistency” reviews. Village
Attorney Whitehead recommended that the applicant proceed with their application
to the Zoning Board of Appeals as we believe that the variance is a threshold issue
and the building could change pretty significantly depending on whether they do or
do not get the variance. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that this is just the
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 8

beginning of a process that will take a while and there will be Public Hearings before
each of the Boards as we go through the process. Additional comments can be
heard by logging onto the following:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=816
Resolution #138 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB and seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a request to permit the consumption and selling
of alcoholic beverages in Senasqua Park through the end of October of 2020; and
WHEREAS, such request is permissible under Chapter 72 of the Village Code,
Alcoholic Beverages, provided the Village Board of Trustees authorizes such
practice; and
WHEREAS on August 17, 2020 the Village Board adopted a resolution authorizing
the consumption and selling of alcoholic beverages in Senasqua Park during the
times and in accordance with the rules and regulations prepared by the Village
Manager; and
WHEREAS the Board now wishes to be the approval authority for each request and
discuss the merits of each application,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the consumption and selling of alcoholic beverages in Senasqua Park on
the following Saturdays from 1 to 7 PM: September 12, 19, 26, October 3, 10, 17,
and 23, 2020,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes Sunday to
be a rain date should inclement weather occur on any of the aforementioned
Saturdays,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board determines that in addition
to the $130 fee for the selling of food and alcohol, the Board is imposing an
additional fee of $185.20 to cover the cost of the gate guard/park ranger during the
times between 1 and 8 PM;
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 9

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that any vendor wishing to make use of this
permission shall have any applicable licenses and insurance certificates on file in
the office of the Village Clerk.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh explained that a previous resolution had indicated that the days and
times would be at the discretion of the Village Manager, and during that discussion,
it was understood that this was not something that the Village could realistically do
after Labor Day because the underlining assumption is that we would do this in a
way where there would not be any additional costs on the part of the Village
because the park was already open. Mayor Pugh stated that we typically close the
park after Labor Day and by keeping it open, it means keeping rest-rooms open
which include cleaning them and having personnel on site which is an additional
cost for the Village and as such we discussed that a fee will be levied on the
applicants.
After further discussion, the Board agreed to the days, hours and fees as stated in
the resolution. To hear the entire discussion, you may log onto the following:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=816
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on August 17,
2020 as amended was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on August 17,
2020 was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9.

REPORTS

Trustee Gallelli advised that the “Run against Hunger” event will be held
virtual this year and that anyone interested in participating in the event can
go to the web site at runagainsthunger.com for more information.

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
September 8, 2020
Page 10

Mayor Pugh thanked Bryan Healy and Trustee Gallelli for all their hard work
and a fantastic job on getting the word out about the 2020 Census. Mayor
Pugh stated that the Village has an 80% response rate; we are also the most
improved municipality in Westchester County from the 2010 Census. Mayor
Pugh advised that the deadline to respond is the end of September.
Mayor Pugh advised that a very extensive “Absentee Ballot” process is being
used again for the upcoming November election. Ballots can be requested
on-line at absentee.elections.ny.gov.
Mayor Pugh advised that the Village will be participating in the 19 th
Anniversary of the September 11th attacks virtually and that the host
community this year is the Village of Buchanan.
There being no further business to come before the Board, The Mayor closed
the meeting at 7:45pm.
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

10

