Minutes of the
Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on
Wednesday, June 10, 2020
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present:

Christine Wagner, Chairman
Doug Olcott
Jim Tuman
Len Simon
Mark Aarons

Also Present: Ronald Wegner, P.E./ Assistant Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting for June 10, 2020 to
order at 8:04 p.m. Chairman Wagner noted that this was the second Zoning Board
meeting being held through Zoom.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Ryan Wilson and Mara Panzar--38 Nordica Drive--Located in the RA-25 Zoning
district and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 79.14 Block1 Lot 5. Request for height variance from Sections 23040H(1) and 230-40H(2) for a proposed retaining wall in the front yard which
exceeds the allowable height requirement, from Section 230-40(B) for an
accessory structure greater than15 feet in height, and from Section 230-40(B) for
an accessory structure located closer to the street than the primary structure.
Chairman Wagner had previously opened the public hearing, and there being no comments
heard on this application at tonight’s meeting, the public hearing was closed.
Mr. Moore, consulting engineer, explained that there had been a concern expressed by one of
the neighbors at the previous meeting about parking below grade so that one would not see the
cars. Mr. Moore addressed this concern and explained the reasons for keeping last month’s
proposal the same which are incorporated in the Zoning Board’s review of the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
Mr. Wegner, the Assistant Village Engineer, noted that the previous approval was for a
four ft. at-grade wall and that the current proposal for a concrete wall is lower than what
was approved before; for this proposal, one would see only the guard rail.

Mr. Tuman pointed out that this request for a variance was approved once before, and
he saw this proposal as an improvement from the last one. By installing a railing, the
design is lighter and the planting of trees would help.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be aesthetically achieved
by a method feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Mr. Moore explained that in light of the complaint about the parking area, they reviewed
the alternatives to achieve this (one way driveway or second driveway that leads out),but
it was evident that either of these alternatives added a lot more retaining wall, a lot more
earth movement, and created a cost that was burdensome to the applicant.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
The proposed one to eleven feet of retaining wall (6 feet of the retaining wall was
approved by the Planning board) is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
Mr. Moore explained that the proposed higher wall would be screened with evergreen
trees (6 ft. when planted), and it is proposed to paint the exposed portion of the wall a
neutral color such as brown. The Zoning Board of Appeals members agreed that
evergreens to be planted should be no less than six feet.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
Motion: Mr. Aarons made a motion to grant the 1-11 ft variance for a proposed retaining
wall in the front yard (up to 6 ft approved by the Planning Board), grant a height variance
of 2 ft. for an accessory structure greater than 15 ft., and grant a variance for an
accessory structure located closer to the street than the primary structure. Mr. Olcott
seconded the motion, and the motion carried all in favor 5-0.
b) Liss, Jonathan--8 Barton Place--Located in the RA-5 One-Family District designated
on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton on Hudson as Section 78.08 block 5 Lot 54.
Request for variance from Section 230-40B for proposed accessory building (studio)
located nearer to street than primary residence and side yard variance from Section 23040A(1)(b) for existing cottage.
The application for a studio accessory building and side yard variance for an existing cottage
had been adjourned to this evening’s meeting. The neighbor at 4 Hamilton Avenue had
expressed concerns about the proposed accessory building (studio).
As the public hearing had been opened in May, Chairman Wagner invited comments from the
public.

Mr. Marc Shenfield, 4 Hamilton Avenue, stated that he wanted to expand on a few points that he
had included in the letter submitted at the previous meeting in May:
a. He wanted to address the issue about whether the proposed studio could be
seen, and he believed that he could see the buildings at 8 Barton Place very
clearly. He stated that if he looks through the base of the trees, it is almost as if
there are no trees and the burden should be on the applicant to screen.
b. He expressed concern about the use of the building and how it might be used by
another owner if the current resident should leave.
c. He expressed concern that with the potential for mechanical equipment such as
an air conditioning unit there might be noise pollution.
d. He stated that he believes the desire for additional space could be met by other
ways and that the ZBA should not expand the non-conforming use.
e. Lastly, he stated that there was no compelling argument for the variance, there
was no hardship and he does not want to see an accessory structure in the front
yard.
There being no further comments from the public, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment
to nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
Mr. Power, architect for the applicant, stated that the proposed studio space does not obstruct
the view and is only one floor. The Zoning Board members asked about the neighbor’s concern
about noise from an air conditioner, and the homeowner stated that if there is an air conditioner
it would be a small one in the wall, not one that requires a condenser on a slab. The Zoning
Board members agreed that any mechanicals now or in the future had to be against the west
wall and internal to the studio (wall units).
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other
than the requested variance.
The Zoning Board members agreed that it was not feasible to place the studio down the slope
near the garden area. Mr. Power stated that the location for the studio had been worked on for
quite a while, and the only other alternative would be to add to the primary structure. An
addition to the primary structure would be as of right, and would be higher in height than what is
currently being proposed with the accessory structure.
3. The requested variances are substantial
4. The proposed variances will not have an adverse effect or impact on the
physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

The Zoning Board members, having seen the two properties, agreed that these are unusual
properties. They agreed that even with the existing trees between the two properties, buildings
on 8 Barton Place can be seen from the Shenfield property. The Zoning Board asked the
homeowner if he would be willing to plant additional trees or bushes on their property to provide
some green shielding. Mr. Liss stated that he would provide more plantings. The color of the
studio will be the same color as the primary house. Mr. Power stated that there was no
potential for the studio to be reduced in size.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Aarons made a motion to grant the variances, with the following conditions: 1)
that, the applicant shall make a reasonably good faith effort to provide visual screening of the
proposed buildings from the neighbors at 4 Hamilton, and 2) that, any utilities (HVAC, electrical,
etc) for the accessory structures shall obtain access through the western wall of those
structures and no such utilities shall be placed on the roof of those accessory structures. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Simon, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor. Based
on the discussion with the ZBA and the applicant and his architect, Mr. Shenfield was satisfied
with the variance being granted with these conditions included in the resolution.
c) Franzoso, Mark--23 Nordica Drive-- Located in the RA-25 One-Family District
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block
4 Lot 64. Request for lot area variance from Section 230-33(A) of the Village Zoning
Code for a proposed new one-family residence.
Chairman Wagner stated that the public hearing was now closed.
Jody Cross, attorney at Zarin and Steinmetz, representing Mr. Franzoso, stated that her client
was asking for a 7.5% lot area variance, and noted that the Village Attorney had opined that no
lot depth variance is required.
Ms. Cross presented the five factors in support of granting the lot area variance:
1. Ms. Cross noted that no undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor
detriment to nearby properties would be produced by granting the variance because if
one looks at the development pattern of the neighborhood, of the 35 total lots, 11 lots do
not meet the lot area requirement. The proposed single-family home is consistent with
the other single-family homes that are in the neighborhood.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than variance requested--without the area variance, the
property would not be a legal lot.
3. The proposed variance is not substantial especially since many of the surrounding lots
are the same size. Ms. Cross documented in her application the degree of nonsubstantialness.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district as this proposal is a
Type 2 action, an action which has been determined does not have a significant impact
on the environment. This application will go before the Planning Board for more site
detail.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created. However even if this is the case,
a variance cannot be denied based on that factor.
Chairman Wagner stated that by granting the variance it would set a precedent for undersized
lots. Ms. Cross responded that there are other undersized lots and the pattern of development
is consistent with what her applicant was requesting; had there been separate ownership, a
variance wouldn’t have been needed. Chairman Wagner noted that the separate ownership
carve-out was in the code, and ignoring it or granting a variance despite it could make the that
language irrelevant, which didn’t seem in line with usual statutory interpretation.
The Zoning Board members wondered how many of the surrounding neighbors had required a
variance to have been built. Mr. Olcott, as a senior member on the board, stated that he does
not remember ever voting for a substandard lot and he is not in favor of the application.
Mr. Simon asked how many comparable lots received variances and absent knowing whether
variances have been granted in the past he worried about precedent.
Ms. Cross stated that when looking at a pattern of development there are houses on lots of
similar size but the particular facts of this particular case is what needed to be considered.
When asked what the sizes are of the other lots in the area, Ms. Cross stated that 11 lots are
undersized but she did not know when they were approved and does not have the numbers as
to how undersized those lots are. In this RA-9 Zoning District, the lot area size was 7.5% (732
sq. ft) less than the required size.
The Zoning Board members expressed concerns about setting a precedent and wanted to know
how many other substandard sized lots had received variances.
Chairman Wagner stated that she did not believe there was sufficient evidence to grant the
variance, and Mr. Olcott and Mr. Simon concurred but noted that this does not preclude getting
more information in the future.
Ms. Cross requested an adjournment so that she can research for variances granted for
undersized lots. It was her understanding that there have been variances granted.
The Zoning Board of Appeals members agreed that they were not opposed to adjournment if
they would get additional information about the size of lots around this lot, particularly the 11
that are undersized. Ms. Cross stated for the record that an adjournment was requested until

that information could be provided to the Zoning Board. The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed to
this adjournment. Chairman Wagner stated she would research the timing for this adjournment.
d) Thomson, Frank--205 Grand Street--Located in the RB Two-Family District
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.17 Block
4 Lot 26. Request for height variance from Section 230-40A(1)(a) for roof and upper
part of walls raised in garage and rear yard variance from Section 230-40A(1)(b) for
addition to existing garage.
Mr. Thomson explained that he wanted to fix up the garage and in doing so, he had built 3 to 3.5
feet higher than the maximum allowable height for the existing building. He had wanted to get
more storage space for his family. A stop work order had been issued by the Building
Department, and he had been told to apply for a variance.
The three family house was existing and it is in the rear portion where the roof was raised. The
Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that more detailed plans including elevations, drawings, and
calculations would be helpful to review the application.
Chairman Wagner stated that she would not open the public hearing and theywould wait for
further information.
Mr. Thomson stated that he is trying to fix up his property and will follow up with an architect for
more detailed information. He had spoken with his neighbors and they seemed happy that he is
fixing up his property.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the Zoning Board of Appeals minutes, dated May
13, 2020, seconded by Mr. Simon, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5-0.
(ROLL CALL VOTE: Mr. Olcott AYE, Mr. Tuman AYE, Chairman Wagner AYE, Mr. Simon AYE,
and Mr. Aarons AYE)
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10: 20 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

