MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Sept. 27, 2020 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:
David Goldman (resigned 9/16/20)
John Habib

Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher

[Bracketed] text relates to actions subsequent to this meeting.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest: Lauren Brois of SW discussed a possible mini-HeatSmart program for Croton to replace
existing electric resistance DHW heaters with heat pump water heaters (HPWH).
Before starting the meeting, Lindsay announced that on Aug. 21 (on our 3rd try) we secured Silver
certification (the highest level) as a DEC Climate Smart Community (CSC). We were awarded 317
points (300 were needed to attain silver) for successfully performing 43 actions. While a formal
presentation of a plaque was to occur, DEC informed us (Sept. 25) that, due to budget constraints,
no CSC plaques will be made. Croton - and, simultaneously, Hastings - are the only villages or
towns to attain silver. Other recipients are 3 counties and 2 cities (Kingston and Beacon). While not
assuring future DEC grants, attaining silver has well-positioned Croton to that end.
Regular business was then moved to later in the meeting to allow time for Lauren’s presentation.
- Lauren had previously provided data on the HeatSmart program promoting GSHP, ASHP, and heat
loss reductions in Westchester homes in NYSEG and Con Ed territories. Results, however, were
disappointing. Until we can see the impact of Con Ed’s recent increase in GSHP incentives (from
$1,875 per ton to $3,420 per ton), a more viable effort may be to take advantage of its increased
incentive for residential HPWH (now $1,000 per unit). Together with the $300 federal tax credit, the
full equipment cost of a unit could be covered. Depending on site specifics, installation could be
another ~$1,400. According to a DOE online calculator, Con Ed’s electric rates may cost a typical
homeowner with an electric hot water heater ~$900 a year. Replacement with a HPWH could save
$300-$600 a year, yielding a 3-4 year payback after incentives.
According to DOE and NYSERDA data, 31%-45% of all residential water heaters in our area are
likely electric, yielding over 1,000 in Croton. A realistic goal might involve replacing ~10% (i.e.,
~100) of them. Each would cut GHG by ~.8 tons/yr, so 100 of them could eliminate ~80 tons/yr.
Lauren said that SW would help Croton develop the program, using its resources and contacts for
marketing materials and arrangements with approved vendors. [A list of follow-up questions was
sent to her 10/3/20.] She also discussed pros and cons of several financing options, including
Green Jobs / Green NY and the private GreenSky LLC option used by many contractors. After
discussing details and issues, the committee approved the project. Various edits to the draft
proposal were suggested and are reflected in the addendum to these minutes. Jon Katz (who has
professional experience with HPWH) agreed to suggest other changes that could make it better.
[John Habib agreed to test the survey as a “guinea pig”, as though he knew nothing about the
program.] As seen below under “Communications”, the committee also agreed to invite C100’s
participation in this project.
1

Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:
- Food scrap recycling grant: It still needs a project manager. Sherry Horowitz approached two C100
people on the matter, without a result. See also Joel’s draft invitation to C100 to participate in that
project, under “Communications”. We have until Oct. 2022 to spend the money. If we are unable to
find a volunteer project manager, we may seek an extension for a year, or just return the grant.
The commercial composting facility (Sustainable Materials Management, Inc.) in Cortlandt is now
operational and is going through initial testing. Its manager stated that it will be ready to start
receiving food scraps this month, and looks forward to serving Croton in the spring.
- EV/EVSE: NY State may get ~$50 million from the diesel emissions scandal settlement involving
Mercedes-Benz’s phony emission software (same as VW). It is unclear how the prior $48 million of
VW money will be converted to bigger – or secondary – vouchers. Answers are being sought.
- CCA: on Aug. 17, after SW’s Dan Welsh presentation on renewing Croton’s MoU, the VB voted to
do so. [In late September, Constellation Energy won the bid with an 18-month rate of 7.405 cents
for green supply (residential). Croton residents will get notification letters in early November, and
may opt out between then and Dec. 9.]
- Our three community solar projects.
- Installation work on the DPW rooftop job was completed in mid-July. Enrollment work started in
late June, with 100% subscribed by the first week of August. Thanks to all who helped, including
eblasts by the Village, C4C, Indivisible, C100, and others. A total of 53 residents (all in the 10520
area) signed up for the system’s 301-kW dc output. 17% self-identified as low-to-moderate income
(LMI), 60% did not, and the remaining 23% did not answer that question. For those that did not
subscribe soon enough (mostly from Ossining), Ecogy offered the option to sign up for its Arcadia
Farm rooftop site in Yorktown (https://ecogyenergy.com/arcadiacommunitysolar). It’s a tad smaller
than DPW (~268.6-kW dc) and should be completed in early October.
- On the Croton Landing canopy job, the VB reviewed (Aug. 24) computer renderings of the project
and were OK on the aesthetics. A legal impasse has, however, stalled the project. The Village’s
attorney stated that Croton cannot provide the financial assurances desired by Ecogy because the
property is County land "in trust" to the Village. Lindsay is looking into legal options to resolve the
issue at the County and State level. The goal would be to get a dispensation or memo under which
solar canopies would be acceptable if limited to parking areas during the term of a lease. Brian said
that a bill proposed by our State Senator Harckham might help fix that problem, called “alienation
of public park land”. [Lindsay later spoke with Harckham’s office on 9/28/20. His bill has passed the
State Senate but not yet the Assembly. It is unclear if it applies only to State parks. His staff agreed
to send us information clarifying its coverage.]
- On June 29, the RFI for the train station parking lot solar canopy job was distributed to 168
NYSERDA-listed solar contractors, eliciting 24 responses. They were emailed the RFP on July 27.
Due to the power outage, the pre-bid was postponed to Aug. 27. Thirteen of the 24 vendors
appeared and visited the site. Due to that delay and issues related to environmental remediation,
vendors asked for an extension on the proposal deadline, so it was moved to Oct. 5.
2

- Mayor Pugh asked Ecogy to consider a batch of small solar projects at 2 firehouses, the Muni
Bldg, and the EMS House. Graphic mockups were produced, but maximum rent for the whole
batch would be only ~$10K. While canopies over some of the parking area at the Muni Bldg were
suggested, Ecogy feels that facility’s rooftop is not fit for solar panels because:
“The roof was pitched pretty severely and looks to be a shingle roof so we would have to penetrate the
roof which we don't want to do. Beautiful building and very nice roof but for solar we would have to
guarantee 1000 penetrations for 25-years which is a risky investment for us. [9/28/20]”

Lindsay suggested ground-mounted systems at the water pump stations be considered since they
account for ~40% of municipal kWh. Ecogy agreed to look into that option. Questions on issues
related to that site were emailed to Frank Balbi, Dan O’Connor, and Janine King.
- Joel reported on the option to secure a paid intern via a NYSERDA grant. Because our Village govt.
gets its power from NYPA (not Con Ed), it doesn’t pay the System Benefit Charge (SBC) on its
electric bills. NYSERDA’s internship program gets its funding from the electric SBC, making our
municipal govt. ineligible for it. Croton does pay SBC via its natural gas bills but NYSERDA would
not count it for this purpose. Joel also reviewed other intern options, but none panned out.
Communications:
- Croton100 ran two small “pop-up” EV car shows for Drive Electric Week, 9/26 in Vassallo Park
and 9/27 at Senasqua Park. Joel and Lindsay had provided suggestions, EV contacts, and copies
of our updated EV flyer, which were distributed at the events.
- NYPA’s renewable power offer: After 5 months, we finally got a 1-page flyer on the program. [A
quote was later developed, which will be sent to Mayor Pugh.] Due to a recent (April) tariff change,
NYPA customers may now access community solar systems. If the train station solar canopy
system proves feasible, our municipal accounts could then get most of their power from it, securing
a small discount on municipal electric bills in addition to lease rent. Lindsay will pursue the details.
Ongoing/new business:
- Len reported on his investigation of major funding sources of 5 national climate action groups. See
his report at the end of these minutes. Bottom line: the Big 3 (NRDC, EDF, Sierra) have large
budgets ($10s million/yr). The other 2 (Al Gore’s Climate Reality Project and Bill McKibben’s
350.org) are much smaller ($ millions/yr). Much of their work involves legislation and lawsuits, but
some grants have been given for mission-oriented localized efforts (e.g., to cities). Len felt that a
grant for our type of work might be possible from one of those groups rather than from their
funders. Len agreed to pursue examples of past grants, and their proposal submission schedules.
- Prior to our meeting, Joel provided committee members with a draft letter to Croton 100, formally
inviting it to participate in the food scrap recycling program and the HPWH program. The committee
discussed it at some length and cleared Joel to send it [done 9/28/20]. A response was requested
by Oct. 31. See the addendum for its text.
- Due to personal and business demands, committee member David Goldman resigned from our
committee on Sept. 16. During his 18-month tenure, our committee greatly benefitted from his
tireless efforts and input. We wish him well on all his endeavors.
3

- Jon Katz described his recent experience with an AeroBin composter which contains a porous core
tube for creating air flow to food and yard scraps put into the device. He had great success!
Date for our next meeting: Sunday, November 1, 10:30 AM (the usual time) again via Zoom
------------Proposal for replacing electric DHW heaters with heat pump water heaters (HPWH) – 9/27/20
Why do this now:
- cuts community GHG with no municipal government cost or involvement
- provides homeowners with a cost-effective way to do so while saving money
- no need for well drilling or other invasive/costly measures associated with GSHP/ASHP
- utility rebate and federal tax credit are probably as high as they’re ever going to be
Why don’t do this now:
- doesn’t cut municipal GHG, which is officially our committee’s main directive
- no one wants to spend ~$2,700 up-front right now, even if there’s a short payback period
- a lot of busy work and education just in Step One (i.e., finding enough appropriate sites)
- COVID limitations make everything more difficult. Postpone it for a year (maybe longer).
--------Goal: persuade ~10% (or more) of Croton homeowners having electric resistance domestic hot water
(DHW) heaters to replace them with heat pump water heaters (HPWH).
Method: via a well-promoted online survey, determine the % of homes having electric DHW heaters.
Develop an emailing list of those homeowners that express interest in learning more. Pre-qualify
those via a follow-up questionnaire to eliminate problematic installation sites. Bring the remainder into
contact with pre-chosen experienced contractors. Assist and track installations.
Basis: According to the DOE Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS) data, about 1/3 of all
residential DHW heaters in the Northeast / New England / Mid-Atlantic states are electric resistance
units. NYSERDA data for the Hudson Valley and Long Island shows 45% may have them. Only ~2%
(or less) of homes presently have HPWHs. Assuming ~3,000 owner-occupied households in Croton
(there are 3,752 Con Ed power customers in Croton), ~30% would yield ~1,000 (or more) electric
resistance units. A 10% target for success would replace ~100 units.
In June, Con Edison raised its HPWH incentive to $1,000 per unit. Together with the $300 federal tax
credit, those incentives could cover the full equipment cost of a typical 50-gallon hybrid HPWH.
Based on a $2,675 fixed price obtained from a plumber experienced with such units (ref. Lauren Brois
of SW), the cost (net of incentives) would then be ~$1,400. A NYSERDA Smart Energy Loan could
cover the other 50% of the total cost (i.e., ~$1,300) at a 3% interest rate.
An online DOE calculator for the operating cost of residential DHW heaters found that a typical
household paying Con Edison rates may spend $900+ a year to run an electric resistance unit.
(https://www.energy.gov/eere/femp/energy-cost-calculator-electric-and-gas-water-heaters-0)
Assuming a Uniform Energy Factor (UEF) of at least 2.5 for readily available HPWHs, operating cost
4

would drop to about $360, saving over $500 a year. Several major manufacturers claim UEFs of 3.45,
with one claiming 4.0.
Dividing the $1,400 net cost by $500/yr savings yields less than a 3-year payback (i.e., ROI >33%). A
residential installation could be charged on a credit card, obviating the need for credit checks, 2 nd
mortgages, etc. that presently limit marketing of other forms of heat pumps.

Steps to convert that information into a program
a) Start with a consultation with a local plumber experienced with HPWH to nail down what needs to
be known to develop a typical price and spec for installing a standard 50-gallon unit, and what
conditions may disqualify a possible installation site. Pricing would be for a hybrid unit (i.e., having a
built-in resistance coil to ensure a good recovery rate) and include an extended service plan to deal
with follow-up installation/setup issues. Other issues would be reviewed that impact operational
acceptability (e.g., operation/location of the condensate pump and piping).
b) To help homeowners understand and identify their existing systems, and how a HPWH may save
versus a resistance unit, create a short PPt. online tutorial on how homes heat their DHW. NYSERDA
data shows many don’t know how it is made, or erroneously think they already have a HPWH. The
tutorial would be available online for those taking the survey in step c). The tutorial would delineate
the technical and financial aspects of DHW heating and HPWHs. This will need to be very simple:
some homeowners don’t understand how their DHW is heated. Show how ~$500 a year could be
saved while cutting a household carbon footprint by almost a ton/yr ($500 saving = ~2500 kWh @ .7
lb/kWh = 1,750 lbs per year, = ~.8 MT or ~.9 standard tons per year).
c) Develop an online survey of homeowners to quantify the electric resistance units in Croton and find
those already having HPWHs. Distribute it via eblasts from Village, C100, Indivisible, C4C, CAC, etc.,
plus Patch (and other online local chat sites), and the Gazette. Interview responding HPWH owners
on the acceptability and experience with their units. See below for proposed survey questions.
d) To focus on realistic opportunities for installations, develop and use a follow-up qualification
questionnaire that would eliminate respondents (based on potential HPWH tech issues) whose
installations may be problematic (e.g., cold location, low ceiling height, tight spacing, low DHW use).
See below for the proposed questionnaire.
e) Work out deals with local plumbers experienced with HPWH to get base pricing for an average
easy installation if performing 50+ of them under this program.
f) Use the list of respondents that passed the pre-qualification review to form clusters to get group
pricing as we did for the oil-to-gas conversion and oil tank removal efforts. Those homeowners would
then be given contact info for the interested plumbers, and/or the plumbers would be given
homeowner contact information, so they could make their pitches and sign up customers.

Draft email to residents
Dear Croton homeowner;
Croton’s Sustainability Committee is developing a program to help homeowners cut their electric bills
and carbon footprints. A home with an electric hot water heater could save $300 to $600 a year in
5

electricity by replacing it with a heat pump water heater (HPWH). A HPWH could pay for itself in
about 3 years, while providing continuous savings every year thereafter. It uses ~1/3 as much
electricity while providing the same capacity and water temperature. Rebates and tax credits can pay
~50% of the total cost. Low interest loans are available to finance the other half.
To help us determine if enough electric hot water heaters exist in Croton to make such a program
worth pursuing, please take our short survey. All responses are confidential. No salesperson will call.
1) Do you own the home where you live? yes / no
2) Does the home have a hot water tank (see picture)? yes / no
3) When was it installed? came with house / before 2010 / since 2010
4) Choose the fuel that heats the water: electricity / natural gas / oil / propane / solar
5) If electric, do you know if it is already a heat pump water heater? yes / no
Note: water heaters that use oil, natural gas, or propane are not heat pump water heaters. To
learn about them, watch the 5-minute video at https://www.efficiencymaine.com/athome/water-heating-solutions/heat-pump-water-heaters/
6) If you own your home, have an electric water heater, and would like to be contacted if this
program proceeds, please provide your name and email address ____________________
Thank you for taking our survey!

Pre-qualification follow-up questionnaire for those expressing interest
1) Please go to https://www.energy.gov/eere/femp/energy-cost-calculator-electric-and-gas-waterheaters-0 and use its online calculator to estimate your annual cost of DHW. Assume an
incremental cost of electricity of $.20/kWh. Enter that cost here: $_______ Note: If less than
$360, a HPWH may not be cost-effective: the payback period could be over 6 years.
2) Choose your tank’s approximate capacity (in gallons): less than 40 / 40 / 50 / over 50
3) If capacity is not known, how tall is the tank (in inches)?
4) And what is its diameter or width (in inches)?
5) Choose where it is located: basement / garage / kitchen / closet / elsewhere
6) Is that space heated or is otherwise kept warm by a nearby boiler or furnace? yes / no
7) Ceiling height of that space (in feet and inches from the floor)
8) Width of that space (to the nearest foot)
9) Length of that space (to the nearest foot)
10) Does the DHW system have an expansion tank? yes / no
11) Do you use a dehumidifier in or adjacent to that space? yes / no
12) If so, where does its condensate go: drains to a sink or floor drain / bucket must be emptied /
other
13) How far (to the nearest foot) is the hot water tank to the closest sink, floor drain, or washing
machine?
6

14) At the sink furthest from your DHW tank, does it take 20 seconds (or longer) for the water to
get warm? yes / no
15) Is the DHW tank located next to a space where a heat pump’s sound (similar to that of a
window A/C unit as heard on its exterior side), could be an issue, e.g., a bedroom or office?
yes / no

Joel’s invitation to C100 to participate in two of our projects
TO: LEO WIEGMAN, CHANDU VISWESWARIAH, PATTY BUCHANAN
Hi all,
I hope that everyone is well.
Last Monday’s meeting ended with a discussion of potential activities for Croton100 this fall and
beyond. To that end, and with the demonstrated success of this past weekend’s EV shows, there
are two Sustainability Committee projects that we believe are ideal for Croton100’s participation. We
could certainly use your help. Your wide reach in the community and your contacts with so many
individuals and families in the village can be essential to the success of those projects. They are:


the 6-month Pilot Food Scrap Recycling Program



a program to promote replacement of residential electric hot water heaters with heat pump water
heaters (HPWH).

The Sustainability Committee invites and encourages Croton100’s participation in both projects.
Food Scrap Recycling
Last September, the village was awarded a small grant from the NYDEC for a six-month pilot food
scrap recycling program, currently scheduled to begin in April 2021. Forty to fifty families will be
selected to collect their food scraps in containers provided by the village. Each Saturday morning,
they will bring them to a specified location, most likely the old skate park, to be logged in and weighed
by a village employee.
The collected scraps will be periodically transported to the new Sustainable Materials Management
(SMM) commercial recycling facility at Roa Hook in Cortlandt. That facility is now open to receive
food scraps for conversion through mechanized composting. All of the costs associated with these
operations are covered by the grant or the Village. If this program is successful, it can be expanded
to cover the entire community.
Croton100’s role would include these tasks:


Becoming educated on the details of the program
7



In cooperation with the village, publicize the program and answer questions about it from
members of the community



Recruit 40-50 families to participate in the program



After the Village purchases the requisite containers (with grant funds), distribute them to the
participants



Observe all weekly drop-offs and collect weekly data (participant name, weight of dropped off
scraps) from the village employee at the site



Compile the data in an approved format (e.g., Excel) and report it monthly to the Sustainability
Committee



Contact participants who are not regularly participating to encourage them to become more
active.



At the conclusion of the program, prepare a draft final report for the village and the state DEC
detailing the results of the program, discussing any issues that arose, how the program may be
improved, etc.

Because of the time it will take to organize the program, we will need a definitive response that
Croton100 is interested in assuming these responsibilities and the designation of the individual who
will lead the effort no later than October 31, 2020.
Croton100 will be able to take full credit for its involvement and for the benefits that accrue to the
community. Because the success of the program will be contingent on your efforts, all tasks would
need to be fully executed. Failure to do so would make it difficult for a larger food scrap program to
be accepted by the village.
Heat Pump Water Heaters (HPWH)
This is a new program that is just getting off the ground. Sustainable Westchester has agreed to assist
us with marketing materials and vendor development efforts.
Unlike recent HeatSmart campaigns that focused on promoting ground source and air source heat
pumps (GSHP and ASHP) for home heating and cooling, the HPWH program will be limited to
replacing electric resistance hot water heaters with units that use heat pumps to heat domestic hot
water (DHW). Some basic information on HPWH is contained in the following from Efficiency Maine,
their counterpart to NYSERDA: https://www.efficiencymaine.com/at-home/water-heatingsolutions/heat-pump-water-heaters/
The economic case for HPWH is much more compelling and easily accepted than GSHP and ASHP
due to the lower cost, easier installation, and simpler financial incentives. According to a DOE survey,
approximately 1/3 of all residences in the Northeast use electric resistance water heaters, regardless
of the fuel used in the boiler or furnace. With about 3,000 owner-occupied homes in Croton, that
potential market could be as large as 1,000 (perhaps more if we consider the entire 10520 zip code).
8

A 10% penetration rate would then yield ~100 customers. Each replacement would (on average)
eliminate about 0.8 metric tons of GHG a year. Every four replacements would have about the same
impact as replacing a gasoline-driven car with an EV.
Based on prior work in upstate NY, installation of a typical heat pump unit would cost about $2,700.
With ConEd’s current rebate of $1,000 and the federal income tax credit of $300, the cost to the
homeowner drops to about $1,400. Again based on DOE data, Con Ed (and CCA) customers with
electric resistance DHW heaters may spend an estimated $900 per year as opposed to ~$360 for a
HPWH, saving over $500/year. The resulting payback period of about three years (i.e., ROI of about
33%) should be attractive to many homeowners. The ongoing savings after payback will, over a 15year lifetime, add up to about $6,000 per household. A typical HPWH may cut electric usage by 60%
or more, depending on usage. Even as New York converts to all renewable power, demand will be
lowered, requiring fewer wind turbines, solar panels, batteries, and the like to meet the load.
As currently conceived, the program would consist of:


Identifying local residences that use electric resistance water heaters. A survey is currently in
preparation to elicit this information. Some education may be needed: preliminary discussions
with several homeowners found that they did not know what kind of water heater they are using.



Confirming the economic data noted above, and negotiating a preferential price for the
installation of multiple HPHW with a local contractor.



For those homeowners requesting further information on the program, a follow-up questionnaire
will be used to pre-qualify potential sites based on technical issues.



From the survey and questionnaire data, identifying likely prospects and contacting them with
the specific details of the offer. At that stage, the homeowner will be put in contact with the
contractor to secure a proposal for the homeowner’s installation.

Again, we envision a significant role for Croton100 in the development and execution of the program.
For example, it might include:


Educating yourselves on all aspects of heat pump powered water heaters.



Assisting in the development of the details of the program.



Publicizing the program and answering questions from members of the community.



Extracting the necessary information from the survey and questionnaire to identify likely
prospects.



Contacting them with the details of the program and putting them in touch with the selected
HVAC contractor



Tracking actual installations: size and cost of units, issues cited by homeowners.
9



At the conclusion of the program, preparing a draft report on all aspects of the program, lessons
learned, etc.

Again, Croton100 can take full credit for its participation and the GHG emissions reductions achieved.
Installations of HPWH can be cited as a step among those noted in your Carbon Tracker program.
While a final commitment is not needed at this stage of the program’s development, we would like to
have a firm expression of interest and the identification of the responsible individual at Croton100 by
October 31, 2020 so that she/he may be brought into the planning and development in its early
stages.
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me. I also plan to join the meeting on October
19 if you wish to discuss the projects at that time. We look forward to working with you on these
exciting initiatives.
Keep well. Stay sane.
Best regards,
Joel
-----Len’s synopsis of his research on funding sources for 5 major climate action organizations
See his chart on the following page for details on each of those organizations’ funding sources.
Following up on Sunday’s meeting of the Sustainability Committee, I have summarized findings from
the funding review of five environmental groups, described how their grant-making could benefit the
Committee and outlined next steps I will pursue in this area.
Review of Large Funders of Big Five Environmental Groups. The Natural Resources Defense
Council, Sierra Club, Environmental Defense Fund, Climate Reality Project and 350.org are all
foundation grant recipients. Individual grants do not have to be divulged, but publicly available reports
provide useful information on major funders as well as the “corporate partnerships” supporting their
work. But in addition to receiving funding from outside sources, NRDC and Sierra actually give
grants.
Their Grantmaking Could Benefit the Sustainability Committee. The grant-making of the
environmental organizations is localized, mission oriented and may involve infrastructure in certain
circumstances. It is localized with funds directed to groups at the community or regional level. It
is mission oriented because funds are granted to take on a specific environmental project or
objective, not for general operational support. And infrastructure funding may be involved, but we’ll
need direct discussions with those groups to determine details.
Next Steps to Pursue with Environmental Groups. As discussed Sunday, I will reach out to
NRDC and the Sierra Club to learn more about their grant-making activities focusing on priorities,
eligible activities, range of funding and timing. In so doing, I will review the work of the Sustainability
Committee with them and assess the potential for them to fund a Committee project. I’ll plan on
reporting back what I find shortly before the November 1 Committee meeting and then discuss it
further in the meeting itself.

10

Large Funders of the Five Major Climate Change Focused Organizations
Organization
Natural
Resources
Defense
Council
(NRDC)

Large Funders

Amount

Time Period/Notes

McArthur Foundation

$17.0 million

1986 - 2018

Energy Foundation

$6.7 million

2015 -2017

Pisces Foundation

$4.8 million

2013 - 2019

The William & Flora Hewlett
Foundation

$4.7 million

Since 2008

$4.7 million

Since 2008

The Schwab Charitable Fund
$2.2 million
Open Society Institute and Foundation

$1.7 million
Sea Change Foundation
$1.7 million
The Rockefeller Foundation
$1.1 million

Vanguard Charitable Endowment
Program
Sierra Club

Bloomberg Family Foundation

$105 million

Through 2015

MacArthur Foundation

$34 million

2013 - 2018

Sea Change Foundation

$14. 5
million

Through 2013

Energy Foundation

Through 2012
$6.4 million
Through 2012

William and Flora Hewlett Foundation
$3.4 million

Organization
Environmental
Defense Fund
(EDF)

Large Funders

Amount

Time Period/Notes

MacArthur Foundation

$48.8 million

1986 - 2019

Heising - Simons Foundation

$2.4 million

2018

David and Lucille Packard Foundation

$750,000

2015

Kresge Foundation

$600,000

2010

Alfred P. Sloan Foundation

$600,000

2015

Houston Endowment

$585,000

2018

11

Climate
Reality
Project
(Al Gore)
Previously
known as
Alliance for
Climate
Protection

350.org

McArthur Foundation

$500,000

2011

Other known donors:

Funded in part by $2.7 million in

Benificus Foundation
Tides Foundation
Barbara Streisand Foundation
Horn Foundation
The Open Society Institute
The Skoll Foundation
The Marisla Foundation
The Sumner Redstone Charitable
Foundation

proceeds from Gore's documentary
Amounts Not
Available for
these
Foundations

and book, "An Inconvenient Truth"
his salary from work for a venture
capital firm and prize money
from his 2007 Nobel Peace Prize.
Also, profits from Live Earth concerts
in 2007.

Foundation for the Carolinas

$6.0 million

(Bill McKibben) Open Society
Tom Steyer
Rockefeller Brothers Fund and Family
Fund
Tides Foundation
The Schumann Center for Media and
Democracy

12

Amounts Not
Available for
these donors

2016 - 2017

