Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on
Wednesday, May 13, 2020
Via Zoom Video Conference
DRAFT MINUTES
Present:

Christine Wagner, Chairman
Doug Olcott
Jim Tuman
Len Simon
Mark Aarons

Also Present: Ronald Wegner, P.E./ Assistant Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting for May 13, 2020 to
order at 8:04 p.m. Chairman Wagner noted that this was the first Zoning Board meeting
being held since February when COVID-19 began.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Anderson, Gregg and Elizabeth--8 Van Wyck LLC -- 8 Van Wyck Street- Located in the
RB Two Family Residential District designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton
on Hudson as Section 78.08 Block 6 Lot 3. Request for side and total side yard
variances from Section 230-34 of the Village Zoning Code for proposed new addition.
Gregg and Elizabeth Anderson, homeowners, explained that the proposed addition is at the rear
of the house. The addition will extend the length of the previous variance granted but will not be
going closer to the side property line.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comments heard on this
application, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The proposed addition is at the rear of the existing house, with most of the addition
being under the overhang of the second floor. The dimensions of the proposed addition
is 16 ft. deep and 18 ft. 6” wide. The siding will be the same as the rest of the house
and the decorative work will be consistent with the Victorian style of the house and in
keeping with the neighboring homes. Mr. and Mrs. Anderson also noted that there are
no windows on the neighbor’s side of the house facing the proposed addition and as a
result will not be a detriment to the nearby properties.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be aesthetically achieved
by a method feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The front of the house will be in line with the white house to the left of 8 Van Wyck
(facing the house) and most of the addition will be under the overhang of the second
floor. The house already has an existing variance; the proposed addition is increasing
the degree of side yard nonconformity.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The request for a four ft. variance is not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The ground floor elevation is the same elevation as the neighboring white house. The
properties are relatively flat. Some trees, shrubbery and vines divide the properties, but
as previously mentioned, there are no windows on the neighboring house facing the
Andersons’ house.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
Motion : Mr. Simon made a motion to approve the side and total side yard variances, and
construction can commence when the Governor issues an executive order allowing construction
work to begin. The motion was seconded by Mr. Tuman, and the motion carried all in favor by a
vote of 5-0. (ROLL CALL: Mr. Simon AYE, Mr. Olcott AYE, Mr. Tuman AYE, Mr. Aarons AYE,
Chairman Wagner AYE)
b) Liss, Jonathan--8 Barton Place--Located in the RA-5 One-Family District designated
on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton on Hudson as Section 78.08 block 5 Lot 54.
Request for variance from Section 230-40B for proposed accessory building (studio)
located nearer to street than primary residence and side yard variance from Section 23040A(1)(b) for existing cottage.
John Power, architect for the homeowner, stated that the proposed project consists of two parts:
the construction of a 25 x 13’10 ft. studio intended for multiple purposes (exercise fitness room,
art studio, toddler play area) in a location closer to the street than the primary residence and the
second is the proposal to remove an existing storage shed (i.e. “the cottage”) located on the
property line to be replaced by a small shed addition added to an existing garage which
requires a side yard variance. Mr. Power noted that if one were to walk behind the cottage, the
property is screened with large evergreen trees which obscure the cottage. Barton Place is a
deadend street. Mr. Power furthermore noted that Mr. Shenfield’s property ends where the

2

cottage is located and the primary residence is much more visible to the neighbors than the
cottage is visible.
Chairman Wagner opened the meeting for public comment.
Mr. Marc Shenfield of 4 Hamilton Street had submitted a letter which was entered into the
record.
Mr. Shenfield asserted that constructing an accessory structure in the front yard is against all
precepts of zoning, and furthermore, since half of the lot was empty, why wouldn’t the structure
be placed on the rear of the property. Mr. Shenfield stated that it is accurate that there are large
evergreens, but in fact there used to be more than what is there currently. Mr. Shenfield also
stated that he was concerned about an accessory building which is not going to be for storage
but for active use and this sets a bad precedent for future ownership and alternative uses of the
accessory structure. He stated that he would like any decision deferred until he gets some legal
advice on the request and determines what his rights are.
There were no further comments. Chairman Wagner stated she was keeping the public hearing
open until the June 10th meeting. The ZBA members expressed an interest to visit the
properties prior to the next meeting. Mr. Shenfield and Mr. Liss both invited the Board members
to walk their respective properties.
c) Ryan Wilson and Mara Panzar--38 Nordica Drive--Located in the RA-25 Zoning
district and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
79.14 Block1 Lot 5. Request for height variance from Sections 230-40H(1) and 23040H(2) for a proposed retaining wall in the front yard which exceeds the allowable height
requirement, from Section 230-40(B) for an accessory structure greater than15 feet in
height, and from Section 230-40(B) for an accessory structure located closer to the
street than the primary structure.
Ms. Christine Hobson, lead structural engineer with Moore Associates, noted that the firm had
met with the Planning Board and received site plan approval with the condition that they return
to the ZBA for variances for the newly designed retaining walls. Due to a new understanding of
the site conditions, Moore Associates (different engineering group than the original plan),
designed higher retaining walls.
Previously, zoning board variances had been granted for the retaining walls. Now that there is a
new layout, the retaining wall will be taller than the one proposed in 2018. The support for the
parking area has changed and has been over designed for surcharge loading (the driveway is
going to be their construction platform). Ms. Hobson explained that the retaining walls would
not be seen from the street from a car; from a pedestrian’s view, one would see the staircase
but the walls would be mostly hidden.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing to the public for comments.
3

Ms. Shanesy, 47 Nordica Drive, stated that she had sent in a letter regarding the large three-car
parking area that was proposed. She would like it to be made smaller if possible since she lives
right across the street.
Mr. Tim Robinson, 15 Nordica Drive, stated that he too thought that the parking structure seems
large compared to the house. He also noted that he was not surprised by the existing spring, he
had known there was a spring on this property since the beginning of this project.
Ms. Hobson stated that she believes the applicants wanted their family to be able to stay and
visit and be able to park their car in the driveway and not on the street. Ms. Panzar confirmed
this and stated that she works in the city and her husband in Connecticut and they wanted not
only a parking area to park their two cars, but for family as well.
There was a discussion on the possibility of changing the retaining wall design and lowering the
parking area into the slope and Ms. Hobson stated that she would discuss with the clients and
look into it.
There being no further comments from the public, the public hearing was adjourned until the
June 10, 2020 meeting.
c) Franzoso, Mark--23 Nordica Drive-- Located in the RA-25 One-Family District
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as SEction 79.13 Block
4 Lot 64. Request for lot area variance from Section 230-33(A) of the Village Zoning
Code for a proposed new one-family residence.
Ms. Jody Cross, attorney for the applicant, stated that the application is for a Lot area variance
in order to facilitate the construction of a single-family house and garage. She noted that she
and her client were aware of the emails received (and one entered into the record) and asserted
that area variances cannot be denied due to speculation of future wrongdoing, use of property,
nor based on who might be the user of the property.
The intent is to build a single-family house and garage in a single-family neighborhood and on a
lot that does not conform to the required lot area, therefore requiring a lot area variance. The
lot also does not conform to the required lot depth, however, because it was owned separately
and individually from the lot behind it (on Piney Point), it qualifies as a “small lot” and therefore
does not require a lot depth variance.
She proceeded to review the five factors in support of granting the lot area variance:
1. It was noted that no undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor
detriment to nearby properties would be produced by granting the variance because if
one looks at the development pattern of the neighborhood, of the 35 total lots, 11 lots do
not meet the lot area requirement. The proposed single-family home is consistent with
the other single-family homes that are in the neighborhood.
4

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than variance requested--without the area variance, the
property would not be a legal lot.
3. The proposed variance is not substantial especially since many of the surrounding lots
are the same size. Ms. Cross documented in her application the degree of nonsubstantiality.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district as this proposal is a
Type 2 action, an action which has been determined does not have a significant impact
on the environment. This application will go before the Planning Board for more site
detail.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created. However even if this is the case,
a variance cannot be denied based on that factor.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing for comments.
Tim Robinson, 15 Nordica Drive, asked if the size of the house was part of the variance.
Chairman Wagner responded that this board is only concerned about the lot size and who has
owned these parcels in the past.
Lois Shakut, 28 Piney Point, owner of property behind this lot stated that she is seriously
concerned about the view and how this house might affect her property. She wants to make
sure that it is done right.
Adam Shakut, 28 Piney Point, stated that their deck has serious damage and is sliding down the
hill.
Russ Davies, 27 Nordica Drive, next to 23 Nordica Drive, stated that he disagrees with the
location of the house, not the building of the house. He is concerned that the proposed house is
too close to his property. He stated that the decimation of the trees has changed the character
of the neighborhood and questioned if this proposed house in the way it will be executed might
have an effect on the neighboring properties. He stated that building this house is antithetical to
the river and tone deaf to the neighborhood’s character.
Chairman Wagner responded that there is no variance needed for the side setback and Ms.
Cross stated that this request is for an area variance not a setback variance. She also noted
that the Planning Board will address the architectural features of the house and the location on
the site.
Hearing no further comments on the application, Chairman Wagner closed the public hearing.
The Zoning Board discussed whether legal counsel (Village Attorney) should be sought about
whether or not a lot depth variance was also required in addition to the lot area variance. The
Assistant Village Engineer stated that as far as interpretation for a variance for lot depth, this
5

had been discussed with the Village Attorney and it was her opinion that due to the separate
ownership, just an area variance was required.
Mr. Olcott stated that he thought the Zoning Board needed to give careful consideration about
granting variances to substandard lots. The Zoning Board agreed that they would like to get
guidance from the Village Attorney on whether a Lot depth variance was not required. The
members agreed that the application will be held over until next month’s meeting in June.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Olcott made a motion to approve the Zoning Board of Appeals minutes, as amended, and
dated February 12, 2020, seconded by Mr. Simon, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a
vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL VOTE: Mr. Olcott AYE, Mr. Tuman AYE, Chairman Wagner AYE, Mr.
Simon AYE, and Mr. Aarons AYE)
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

6

