Minutes of the
Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on
Wednesday, July 8, 2020
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present:

Absent:

Christine Wagner, Chairman
Jim Tuman
Len Simon
Mark Aarons
Doug Olcott

Also Present: Ronald Wegner, P.E./ Assistant Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting for July 8, 2020 to order
at 8:05 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Franzoso, Mark--23 Nordica Drive-- Located in the RA-25 One-Family District
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block
4 Lot 64. Request for lot area variance from Section 230-33(A) of the Village Zoning
Code for a proposed new one-family residence. Request for adjournment to September
meeting.
The Zoning Board of Appeals members present at tonight’s zoom meeting stated they had no
objections to the applicant’s request for adjournment until the September 8, 2020 ZBA meeting.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Geberth, Kevin--15 Wayne Street--Located in the RB Two-Family District designated on
the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 2 Lot 11.
Request for rear yard variance from Section 230-9.1(a)(10)(c)[1] for a proposed
swimming pool less than 10 feet from the rear property line.
Mr. Geberth, the owner, stated that the proposed inground pool will be located in the backyard
with an existing patio. He plans to install the pool himself.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comment from the public, the
public hearing was closed.

1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
Mr. Geberth stated that he had spoken to one of his neighbors who has no
objections to the pool. The other neighbor rents the house, but did not appear to
have any objections. There are fences on both sides of the property and along
the back of the property.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Mr. Geberth stated that the only available pool kit available to purchase was the
one which had a 24 ft length. This pool size placed it six feet from the rear
property line. The property is situated in such a way that there is no other
location to place a pool of this size.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The ZBA agreed that the variance request of four feet is a modest one.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The ZBA members noted that there is no home behind this property and
therefore the location of the pool nearer to the property line will not impact the
physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
Motion: Mr. Simon made a motion to grant the variance request, seconded by Mr. Tuman.
The motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Olcott absent). (Roll call: Mr. Aarons, YES, Mr. Tuman
YES, Mr. Simon YES, Chairman Wagner YES).
b) Spagnoli, Philip -- 3 Cleveland Drive--Located in the RA-9 One-Family District
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block
4 Lot 20. Request for front yard variance from Section 230-33A for proposed additions
to the house (on the Cleveland Drive side) and a front yard variance from Section 23033A for a proposed deck (on the Franklin Avenue side).
Mr. Spagnoli, property owner, and Mr. Ciprian Captan, architect, stated that the proposed
renovations were intended to update the house for access as well as to update the inside of the
house. The house is very near the corner of the northwest part of the property.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comments from the public, the
public hearing was closed. However, because the meeting was being held on Zoom, a raised
hand from the public was inadvertently overlooked. The public hearing was reopened for Ms.
Cynthia Plater, 9 Cleveland Drive, whose comments are noted in a discussion of Factor 2.

2

There being no further comments from the public after Ms. Plater, the public hearing was
closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

Mr. Spagnoli noted that the house is crammed into the corner of the northwest part of the
property. The purpose of the proposed renovations is to update the house for access and to
update the interior space. These renovations would also provide more curb appeal for the
entire property. Because the house is oriented towards the north, a porch in the front of the
house would make the living room very dark, so the proposed porch is located on the side. The
Zoning Board members noted that given how large the property is, the variance could be
accommodated.
The Zoning Board members agreed that this would be a positive improvement in the
neighborhood.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board members discussed at length other options for the front entrance stairway
and the porch. There was a discussion about the aesthetics of the side of the stairs which are
seen from the street. It was discussed that the porch might be more pleasing situated in the
front of the property. Alternative design options were discussed and the board members
suggested to the applicant to consider having the stairs moved towards the Franklin Avenue
side.
Ms. Plater, 9 Cleveland Drive, stated that she had previously been satisfied with the original
proposal as initially discussed, however, hearing proposed changes to the submitted plan, she
was concerned about the alternative option which would move the entry stairway right near her
front door. She would prefer the entrance way on the Cleveland Drive side, not the Franklin
Avenue side.
The Zoning Board members concluded that the benefit sought by the applicant for the proposed
back deck cannot be achieved given the location of the house by a method other than the
requested variance, the benefit sought by the applicant for the proposed additions to the house
(second story) cannot be reasonably achieved by a method other than the requested variance,
and the benefit sought by the applicant for the front entry layout can be achieved by potential
alternatives but would have a negative impact on a neighbor’s house.
3. The requested variance is substantial.

3

The Zoning Board determined that a 18.8’ front yard variance for the proposed additions to the
house (on the Cleveland Drive side) and a 9.10’ front yard variance for a proposed deck (on the
Franklin Avenue side) were substantial.
4. The proposed variances will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
As discussed, the Zoning Board agreed that the renovations would be a positive improvement in
the neighborhood.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
Mr. Simon made a motion to grant the 18.8’ front yard variance for proposed additions to the
house (on the Cleveland Drive side) and a 9.10’ front yard variance for a proposed deck (on the
Franklin Avenue side), seconded by Mr. Tuman, and motion carried by a vote of 3-0 ( Mr. Simon
AYE, Chairman Wagner, AYE, Mr. Tuman AYE, Mr. Aarons NAY, and Mr. Olcott absent).
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Zoning Board requested that the minutes be held over for approval at the September
meeting.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

4

