Draft Minutes of the
Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on
Wednesday, September 9, 2020
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present:

Christine Wagner, Chairman
Jim Tuman
Len Simon
Doug Olcott
Absent:
Mark Aarons
Also Present: Ronald Wegner, P.E./ Assistant Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting for September 9, 2020 to
order at 8:02 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Franzoso, Mark--23 Nordica Drive-- Located in the RA-25 One-Family District
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block
4 Lot 64. Request for lot area variance from Section 230-33(A) of the Village Zoning
Code for a proposed new one-family residence. Request for adjournment to September
meeting.
The Zoning Board of Appeals members present all stated they had no objections to the
applicant’s request for one more adjournment until the October 14, 2020 meeting.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) 85-87 Grand Street Corp. – 85-87 Grand Street—Located in the RB TwoFamily Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.08 Block 6 Lot 30. Request for a rear yard
variance from Section 230-33A for an existing two-car frame garage.
Ms. Kennedy, real estate broker for the property, explained that the variance being requested is
for a 1938 permit for a two-story frame garage that is 3.9 ft off the property instead of the
required 5 ft for an accessory structure. A variance is required In order to close out the existing
building permit.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comments from the public, the
public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:

1

1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The Zoning Board agreed that the garage has existed since 1938 and is currently being used for
parking for the existing tenants of the mixed-use building. The property has recently been
granted a special permit for an all residential building, and Ms. Kennedy stated that the use of
the garage will be used by future tenants living in the converted apartments on the first floor.
Ms Kennedy also stated that the garage is well-maintained mechanically and has no electricity.
The Zoning Board concurred that there will be no undesirable change in the character of the
neighborhood since there is no change being proposed and the structure has existed since
1938. The Zoning Board noted that two additional apartments, with parking, is beneficial to the
village.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board noted that the garage is an existing structure that is located on the property in
a place that does not present a problem to the neighborhood.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning Board agreed that a 1.5 ft variance is not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact
on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood since the garage has existed
since 1938. The garage offers off-street parking in addition to available street parking.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.
The Zoning Board agreed that given the garage is pre-existing, the difficulty was not selfcreated.
MOTION: Mr. Simon made a motion to grant a variance of 1.5 feet, seconded by Mr. Tuman,
and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Aarons absent). Rollcall vote: Mr. Simon, yes, Mr.
Tuman, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes, and Chairman Wagner, yes).
b) Damiano, Nicholas – 3 Cedar Lane – Located in the RA-9 One-Family Residential
district and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
79.9 Block 5 Lot 27. Request for a front yard variance from Section 230-33A for the
construction of an open front porch.

2

Mr. Power, architect for the owner and Nick Damiano, owner, explained that the proposal was
for an open front porch for a single-family dwelling. At present, there are four steps to the front
door. Given the position of the house on the property, the front corner of the proposed porch
violates the front yard setback and will require a front yard setback variance. The front yard
setback is 22.8 ft on the survey and will require a 7.1 ft setback (30 ft. front yard setback
requirement).
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comments from the public,
closed the public hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed porch was not out of character with the
neighborhood and will add greater curb appeal than the existing four steps to the entrance.
Mr. Powers explained that the proposal porch will create a more usable space in the front, and
allow some sitting area. A neighbor across the street had written a letter of support for the
proposed porch.
The Zoning Board members agreed that the design was an improvement to the neighborhood
and also improved the visual appeal of the front of the house. The Zoning Board concurred that
there will be no undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties produced by the proposed variance.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Given the location of the house and that it is a corner lot, the front porch cannot be reasonably
achieved by any other location.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning Board agreed that a 7.5 ft. variance request is not substantial and does not protrude
too far out on the property.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
Mr. Powers noted that the large tree on the right does not get affected by the proposed porch
and in fact would shield a good portion of the porch in terms of visibility. In addition, the owner
will be adding more plantings in the front of the porch.

3

5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a 7.5 front yard variance, seconded by Chairman
Wagner, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Aarons absent). ROLL CALL: Tuman,
yes, Wagner, yes, Olcott, yes, and Simon, yes)
a) Talley, Dana – 34 Prospect Place – Located in the RA-25 One-Family Residential
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
67.20 Block 4 Lot 21. Request for a side yard variance from Section 230-33A for a
proposed deck.
Mr. Dana Talley and his son and daughter-in-law are proposing a deck for family use only (not
for entertaining purposes).
Chairman Wagner noted that the ZBA had received correspondence from the neighbors at 40
Prospect and the neighbors had expressed concern about noise and visual lighting into one of
the apartments in their building.
The applicants stated that they had spoken with the neighbors about the proposed deck.
Mr. Talley stated that there is a patio near the house that is closer to the neighbors than the
proposed deck. They have had outdoor gatherings in the patio space and no one has
complained about noise. The proposed deck is for the private use of the family, not for larger
gatherings.
They were asked if they could make it smaller and they responded that they are willing to
compromise and make the footprint smaller in addition to adding a privacy screen. They
pointed out that the wall and trees decrease any potential noise issues, and want to utilize
space at the back of the house that is currently just wasted space. No trees will be removed.
One cannot see the neighboring house due to the trees between the proposed deck location
and the neighboring house. The applicants also noted that there is no other alternative location
since any other area would be closer to the neighbor. The part of the property that the deck is
being proposed would be enhanced visually by a deck.
The Zoning Board agreed that a site visit would be beneficial and they requested more detailed
plans including elevations, in addition to a rendering of the actual proposed deck. The Zoning
Board members acknowledged that a slightly smaller footprint might also be helpful.
The Zoning Board kept the public hearing open until the October 14, 2020 meeting.
3. REFERRALS

4

a) 21-27 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.8 Block 5 Lots 42, 43, 59, 60)—
Consent for the Village Board to be Lead Agency on application for special
permit for 44-unit, multi-family housing building.
The Zoning Board of Appeals had no objections to the Village Board being Lead Agency
on the application for special permit for 44-unit, multi-family housing building. The vote
was unanimous for all present (Mr. Aarons absent).
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the July 8, 2020 minutes, seconded by Mr. Simon
and carried in favor by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Olcott not present in July).
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the June 10, 2020 minutes, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Olcott, and carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Aarons not present).
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:15 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

5

