Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, October 5, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simmons and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$47,712.90
16,180.25
4,529.33
$63,959.56

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL – None
4. PRESENTATION –
A motion to approve the Issuance of a Proclamation proclaiming October
4th - 10th “Fire Prevention Week” was made by Trustee Simmons,
seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Jasmine Graham of Westchester Power gave a presentation on the
upcoming “Community Choice Aggregation Program” renewal. To view
the presentation, you may log onto the following Web-Site:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=823
5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. E-mail from Toni Senecal Shea dated October 1, 2020 asking the Board
to consider extending the outdoor sidewalk seating program through
the end of the calendar year and to also allow them to place a pizza

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 5, 2020
Page 2

oven on the street on October 31st in conjunction with the Croton
Caring Committee’s annual food drive.
Village Manager King advised that she has spoken with Superintendent
of Public Works Frank Balbi and we believe that as long as the business
owners are willing to move the barriers from the street after
notification of an impending snow storm this would not be an issue.
Trustee Habib stated that he had received complaints from some retail
establishments that this program takes up parking spaces even when
those establishments are not open. Trustee Habib stated that he takes
these comments seriously and we are sensitive to this, but we are all
trying to do the best we can in this Covid economy.
Village Manager King stated that she had received some complaints
but once we started doing enforcement, she has not received any
complaints since then.
On motion by Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Habib the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved
extending the outdoor sidewalk program to the end of the calendar
year with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh
Aye.
On motion by Trustee Habib and seconded by Trustee Simmons the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request from “Tapsmith” to place a pizza oven on the street on
October 31st with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye,
Trustee Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye,
Mayor Pugh Aye.
b. E-mail from Stephen Campbell of “New York Power Authority” dated
September 28, 2020 alerting Croton of increased production rates.
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/FW_Notice_of_ProposeRul
e_Making_-_Increase_Production_Rates.pdf
c. Bid Summary from the Village’s September 30, 2020 Bond Sale. The
Village received a rate of 1.56635%. file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/
Downloads/09302020 CrotonOnHudson-SB-SR-2609990%20(2).pdf
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 5, 2020
Page 3

6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS – none
7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #143 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) has applied for a subdivision of its
property to create a separate 15-acre lot to be leased for a solar array, an amended
special permit for the Club use on the reduced property, and site plan and special
permit for the proposed tier 3 solar energy; and
WHEREAS HNGC received its initial special permit for an annual membership golf
club on July 25, 1994, site plan approval on July 26, 1994, an amended special
permit on April 19, 1999, and amended site plan approval on March 2, 1999; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Village Board determines that this is an Unlisted Action under SEQRA.
2. The Village Board declares its intent to be Lead Agent for SEQRA purposes
and authorizes the circulation of its notice of intent to all involved and
interested agencies including the Village Planning Board and the Westchester
County Planning Board
3. The Village Board refers the special permit applications to the Planning Board
for a recommendation back to the Village Board.
4. The Village Board refers the subdivision and site plan application to the
Planning Board for it to process.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that in their 1999 amended approval it included
an “Environmental Management Plan” that indicates areas of “No Disturbance”.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the proposed panels are being shown in that
area which is defined on that “Plan” as areas in which the “natural process of
succession to a mixed hardwood forest should be allowed to progress unaffected by
golf course activities and wildlife habitats shall develop and evolve unassisted and
unimpeded”. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that to allow the solar panels in
that area that specific designation would need to be modified. Village Attorney
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 5, 2020
Page 4

Whitehead added that there are also driveways and buildings shown within the lot
that is being proposed for the solar energy facility and they would have to address
what is going on in those buildings before moving forward.
Mayor Pugh asked if the Village will be hiring an environmental consultant.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that there is a fair amount of tree removal being
proposed and we want to make sure that this will not cause any problems as well as
resolving what was supposed to be a “habitat/no disturbance” area.
Trustee Horowitz asked if the applicant seemed to be aware of this.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the process that culminated in the 1999
approvals was a rather lengthy process which involved a lot of environmental
issues. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that this is an ongoing operation as a golf
course and there has been some subsequent amendments and modifications since
1999 that have been approved by the Village; there were amendments in 2008 that
related to the management of some of the areas of play with the intention of
allowing for some tree removal for “healthier turf” management.
Village Manager King advised that an “Environmental Management Plan” was
approved in 1999 as part of the Planning Board’s “Site Plan” which is available online for anyone to review.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this “Environmental Management Plan” anticipated and
called for various kinds of ongoing oversight by environmental consultants chosen
by the Village which continued for many years depending on what the oversight was
for.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on September
21, 2020 was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on September 21,
2020 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib.
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 5, 2020
Page 5

Trustee Gallelli advised that she attended one of the “Electric Vehicle”
presentations and congratulated them for putting this together. Trustee
Gallelli wished everyone a safe and healthy Columbus Day weekend.
Trustee Horowitz congratulated Village Manager King and the staff for
successfully putting together many events for our community in light of all of
the Covid regulations. Trustee Horowitz said that she is also glad that the
“Croton Community Calendar” is back which is an indication that we are
inching our way back. Trustee Horowitz advised that the “Green Living”
series will be held virtually this Thursday and the “Diversity and Inclusion”
Committee has been putting together a discussion series which will be held
on October 16th.
Mayor Pugh congratulated the “Sustainability Committee” on the Village
achieving a “Silver Certification from the State; Croton is one of two Villages
in the State to receive this honor from the “Department of Environmental
Conservation”. Mayor Pugh stated that the Village has taken forty-three
steps to make itself cleaner and this is a recognition of what we have done on
the environmental front.
Mayor Pugh advised that he and Deputy Mayor Gallelli attended a ceremony
for John Anthony Sarcone on becoming an Eagle Scout, they also had the
pleasure to honor four World War II Veterans from Croton, Ollie Hines, John
Giglio, Vergil Meliti and David Spellman on the 75 th Anniversary of the end of
the second World War; they also joined the Planning Board for a site visit to
25 South Riverside Avenue.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:04pm
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

5

