June Council Minutes
Opened 6/30/20 at 2001 by Phil Dinkler.
Roll Call: Present - T. Dinkler, D. Altamura, D. Bennett, D. Vlad, R. Cusano, A. Conti, K.
Russell, M. Feminella, A. Roosa Jr., G. Tucci, K. Tucci, E. Conti, W. Skiba, W. Vlad, R.
Cappalozi, H. Flynn, P. Dinkler Excussed - J. Munson, J. Karpoff, J. Streany
Pledge to the Flag: Led by P. Dinkler
Moment of Silence:
Special Order of Business: None
Approval of the Minutes of the Previous Meeting: Motion to Suspend till the next meeting as
no one could find them by W. Skiba/2nd by M. Feminella - Carried
Bills and Communications:
Email from J. Munson - Please excuse me from tonight’s Fire Council meeting, I am not feeling
well.
Email from J. Karpoff - Please excuse me from tonight's council meeting. I cannot attend due to
a personal matter.
Email from J. Streany - Please excuse me from tonight‘s meeting as I will be out of town
Letter from Dave Jarc requesting to be placed on the Exempt Life Member list.
Letter from Hook & Ladder to place Justin Cusano on Military Leave as he is now in the Marine
Corps - effective 6/1/2020.
Letter from Hook & Ladder to place Pete Anfiteatro, Andy Dickey, Anthony Farano, Anthony
Gagliotti and John Manco on the Exempt Life Member list and for William “Doc” Skiba to be an
Active Life Member.
Reports of Chiefs:
2083:I have nothing to report as far as firehouses or county training. If there are any issues with
firehouses, please email me about them.
2082:Training Report
As of 7pm this date, the only Active Members that have not completed their annually required
training are Jake Dinkler, Jonathan Scutari, John Gilbert, Charlie Nikitopolous, Aron Lindholm,
Robert Perez and Len Simon. It is to my understanding many of these members are either
going Social or being dropped by their Company. If so, please get this to me ASAP.
Due to his accident, Gordon Ingalls Jr is on medical leave and will complete his training once he
can do so.
A full report will be published tomorrow of every member’s status.
We had a great turnout at last Wednesday’s Drill. We will resume our Wednesday Night Drills
regularly next week (7/8).
Apparatus Report
Tanker 10 is at Hudson Valley Fire Equipment for a mechanical issue. It should be back this
week, Engine 120 will go out next to address a couple of issues.

The new 2083 is getting closer to completion - backordering/delayed shipping has caused a
significant delay.
Marine 12 needs some repairs, I will be contacting Zoller’s tomorrow.
Radios/Pagers Report
Some members received new pagers last week.
The new radios for all apparatus have been ordered and will be here in coming weeks.
Our House Sirens no longer have a timer. Instead, 60 Control has a Day Tone and a Night Tone
to dispatch us with. This allows us to activate the siren in the event of a major incident 24/7 if
needed. For the foreseeable future, no paging will occur on our Districtwide frequency, only
46.26. Members are asked to use their pagers to know when there is calls. I-Page is unreliable,
and updates or additional pages for manpower are usually only done by pager, not text
messaging.
2081: Thanks for everything everyone has done during the recent difficult times. At this time I
would like to reopen the Firehouses for meetings, training and gatherings but please use
common sense and also follow any existing guidelines from the Governor and from the state
about safety. The gym at Grand St Fire house will remain closed till the Governor opens gyms
across the state.
Special Reports: None
Reports of Committees:
Fund Drive - see attached.
Losap - The reports are currently delayed due to the need for further information from Penflex
for the correct way to assign points to classes that are less than 1 hour. New legislation has
been passed concerning the assignment of points to people who have been unable to get points
during covid because they were told to stay away. The Losap committee chair states that this
does not affect many of our members but that we can bring it to the Village board if so wanted
by the Council. The wardens will take it back to the companies to discuss. See attached.
Discussed the possibility of applying for 501c status to save money on mailing and postage.
Unfinished Business:
It was brought to the attention of the council that even though a mask policy was set in April
there are still members not following it. P. Dinkler would like to remind all members and
especially all officers that if you have someone in violation of the mask policy to remove them
from the area and have them return to the apparatus.
The need to address several training requirements with the teaching of in house classes was
brought up. In particular pump ops and ladder ops that are needed for several members to
complete driver training. It was reported by a member of the Training division that a pump op
course was in the works.
New Business:
Use caution in the center of town when driving - several areas of the town have barricades
blocking parking spaces due to tables being set up on the sidewalks for the patrons of eating
establishments.
It was mentioned that the village is looking into closing several sections of the road to open to
pedestrians and extended eating areas into the roads on Weekends. The council has asked that
a letter be sent to the Village stating that if this was to happen it would extend response times.
Report of Treasure: The Town of Cortland split is being given out tonight to the wardens of
each company. The total is $69,507 with a slit of $13,901.40 each company. The 2% funds will

be available soon, several deposits and withdrawals have been made to test the account
routing. The current total in the account right now is $114,7770.54.
Adjournment: Motion D. Altamura/2nd D. Bennett - Carried.

