Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, October 19, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simmons made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$93,096.22
$19,107.55
$6,736.37
$292,460.28
$6,498.04

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
4. PRESENTATION – by John Dullaghan, Director of Governmental Affairs for
Altice USA regarding the August 2020 Optimum Service Outages. To view
the presentation please click on the following:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=827
5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Revised proposal from the Conservation Advisory Council to limit the
use of Leaf Blowers within the Village. Report will be discussed at the
October 26th Work Session. To view the document, please click on the
following:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Update_for_Board1%20(1).pdf
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 19, 2020
Page 2

Lauren Davis, 14 Hamilton Avenue, Croton on Hudson asked when the
community will get to see a site plan from the developers of the 25 South
Riverside Avenue project; asked for an explanation of the process and
what a “Lead Agency” does; requested to see the final Traffic Study;
asked what is the “Limit of Disturbance” and how will properties be
protected from erosion; concerned about the possibility of an outdoor
entertainment area on top of the building and if there are going to
balconies, how many will face toward Van Wyck; and would like to know
the estimate of taxes this project will generate.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that all projects have to go through
a “State Environmental Quality Review Act” (SEQRA) which ensures that
environmental considerations are part of the review process; a “Lead
Agency” is one of the approving agencies that chooses to take the lead
for the “SEQRA” review; because the Village Board has agreed to oversee
the project and since it has to approve the “Special Permit”, the Village
Board takes all the information that is provided, reviews comments from
other Boards and ultimately makes a determination as to whether the
project will result in any potential significant adverse environmental
impacts and whether those impacts can be mitigated through changes in
the project. Village Attorney Whitehead added that the Planning Board
will provide input to the Village Board during the process and ultimately
the Planning Board will grant the “Site Plan” approval but they cannot do
that until the Village Board completes the “SEQRA” review.
Village Manager King stated that while they have re-submitted an
application that does not require a “Variance”, they have not resubmitted their entire “Plan” so many of these questions cannot be
answered at this time.
E-mail from Daniel Bennett, 40 Van Wyck Street, Croton on Hudson,
dated October 18, 2020 voicing his opinions of why he is opposed to
banning gas-powered leaf blowers.
E-mail from Joseph Streany, 9 High Street Croton on Hudson, dated
October 19, 2020 complaining about the condition of a property adjacent
to his and requesting that the Village Engineer apply the same standards
that were used to determine 117 North Riverside Avenue required
cleanup.”
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 19, 2020
Page 3

7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #144 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Justice Court would like to apply for a
grant under the 2020-2021 Justice Court Assistance Program (JCAP); and
WHEREAS the grant request is being made to fund personal protective equipment
(PPE) for the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as improvements to the entryway of the
courtroom,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Court Clerk to apply for this grant application on behalf of the Justice Court; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the grant application on behalf of the Mayor.
Resolution #145 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village has received complaints regarding the property located at 117
North Riverside Avenue, designated on the tax maps as Section 67.20, Block 004,
Lot 011; and
WHEREAS the complaints are generated by the condition of the property area; and
WHEREAS, the Village’s Code Enforcement Officer has issued an Order to Remedy
Violations – Ten Day Notice, dated October 5, 2020, which was sent by certified
mail, and
WHEREAS Section 179-2 of the Village Code requires all property to be maintained
and, upon failure of the property owner to maintain said property, provides for
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 19, 2020
Page 4

Village cleanup, after proper notice to the property owner, with the cost of the
cleanup being assessed against the property,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees finds that
there are ongoing violations of the Village Law and State Codes as indicated above
and that these violations must be abated to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the Village residents; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the total costs of removing all weeds, brush, refuse,
rubbish, and other materials will be added to the Village tax bill for 117 North
Riverside Avenue if the prepared invoice is left unpaid by the property owner.
Resolution #146 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was the owner of an unimproved piece of
property on Hollis Lane, in the Town of Cortlandt; and
WHEREAS on June 1, 2020, the Village Board approved the sale of the property to
the adjacent property owner, Bojan Petek, in the amount of $100,000; and
WHEREAS the funds from the sale have now been received by the Village,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2020-2021 budget in the amount of $95,000 as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A1000.2660

Sale of Real Property

$95,000

Decrease
A1000.2401
A5650.1730

Interest & Earnings
Daily Parking

$42,000
$53,000

Resolution #147 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 19, 2020
Page 5

New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Marco Ordonez, of M & J Auto Repair Corp., to operate a motor vehicle repair
garage at 485 S. Riverside Avenue; and
WHEREAS under Section 230-17B(3) of the Village Code, storage or repair garages
are only permitted in the C-2 Zoning District with a special use permit; and
WHEREAS this action is a Type II action under the New York State Environmental
Quality Review Act, which does not require an environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers
the special permit application to the Planning Board for a recommendation back to
the Village Board of Trustees; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on November 16, 2020, at 6 PM, to consider the request for a special
permit from Marco Ordonez, of M & J Auto Repair Corp., to operate a motor vehicle
repair garage at 485 S. Riverside Avenue; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #148 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on March 16, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees awarded a contract to
Michels Pipe Services for water main infrastructure work in the amount of
$1,224,666; and
WHEREAS, Michels Pipe Services has submitted Change Order 1 in the amount of
$11,619.10 to cover cost overages related to the project; and
WHEREAS funding for this change order is available in capital project account
H8320.2106.13262,
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 19, 2020
Page 6

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the change order from Michels Pipe Services in the amount of $11,619.10;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to pay invoice
#1700059 in the full amount of $58,481.85.
Resolution #149 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ and seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS on August 17, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees authorized the Village
Manager to execute the Memorandum of Understanding with Sustainable
Westchester for the period beginning January 1, 2021, for the Community Choice
Aggregation Program, and
WHEREAS on September 30, 2020, Sustainable Westchester held its bid opening for
the upcoming period, and
WHEREAS the successful bid provided the following rates for program participants:
Residential Renewable (7.405 cents), Residential Standard (6.749 cents), Small
Commercial Renewable (7.100 cents) and Small Commercial Standard (6.445
cents), and
WHEREAS these rates are lower than the current rates of 7.96 cents for renewable
and 7.71 cents for standard supply for both residential and small commercial
accounts, and
WHEREAS Sustainable Westchester has now provided an Electrical Services
Agreement (ESA) to the Village to contract at these rates for the period beginning
January 1, 2021, through June 30, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Electrical Services Agreement with
Sustainable Westchester for the period beginning January 1, 2021, through June 30,
2022.
Resolution #150 of 2020
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 19, 2020
Page 7

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Ralph Rossi and Philip Spagnoli for a multi-residential building at 25 South
Riverside Avenue; and
WHEREAS, on September 8, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent
to serve as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its
intent to all involved agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Village has received comments back from the Westchester County
Planning Board, the Village Planning Board and the Village Zoning Board of Appeals
stating that they have no objections to the Village Board of Trustees serving as Lead
Agency; and
WHEREAS, the 30-day window to send comments regarding the Village’s intent to
serve as lead agency has now passed; and
WHEREAS, since the time of circulation, the applicants have submitted a revised
special permit application for a smaller multi-residential building of 39 units at 25
South Riverside Avenue which no longer requires a zoning variance,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the proposed
action; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers the
special permit application to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for
recommendation of consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP).
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib thanked the public for their input and looks forward to everyone’s
continued input as we move forward.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this is just the first step in what is going to be a lengthy
process involving multiple public hearings by the Planning Board and Village Board
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 19, 2020
Page 8

as well as input by the “Waterfront Advisory Committee” to determine consistency
with our local “Waterfront Revitalization Program”.
Resolution #151 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Section 2019-a of the Uniform Justice Court Act requires that Village
Justices annually provide their court records and dockets to be audited; and
WHEREAS O’Connor Davies, LLP, of Harrison, New York, conducted an independent
audit of the Justice Court of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for the fiscal year
ending May 31, 2020; and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a copy of the audit report,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that in accordance with Section 2019-a of the
Uniform Justice Court Act, the Village Board of Trustees acknowledges that the
required audit was conducted; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Clerk is hereby authorized to forward a
copy of the annual report and a copy of this resolution to the NYS Office of Court
Administration.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
October 5, 2020 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli. and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS
Trustee Gallelli advised that the Village has begun its series of public forums
regarding a “Police Reform Report”; the forums are open to the public and
are focused on different community groups. Trustee Gallelli directed
everyone to the Village’s Web-Site to view more information.
(https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/ongoing-projects-initiatives-proposed8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 19, 2020
Page 9

infrastructure-improvements/pages/police-reform-accordance);
anyone
interested in serving on the “Task Force” can submit an application up to
October 31st.
Trustee Gallelli advised that the Census Count has ended, we had the
second highest increase in Westchester County in our response to the
Census compared to 2010.”
Bryan Healy stated that Croton did a great job; we were the second highest in
Westchester County in responding to the Census.
Trustee Gallelli advised that this coming Saturday is “National Prescription
Drug Take Back Day”; the event will be held at “Croton Commons” from
10:00am to 2:00pm.
Trustee Habib advised that the first “National First Responders Day” will be
held a week from Wednesday with various Zoom celebrations. Trustee Habib
advised that “Hudson River Sloop Clearwater” will be holding an event on
Thursday October 29th at 7:30 PM, the online concert will be live streaming
to Facebook Live and YouTube.
Trustee Horowitz advised that early voting begins this Saturday, October 24 th
and encouraged residents to reach out to the Westchester County Board of
Elections for a list of days, hours and locations.
(https://citizenparticipation.westchestergov.com/find-polling-place).
Mayor Pugh appointed Matthew Segatti as Marriage Officer.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:16pm
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

9

