Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes September 15, 2020

Members and Guests Present: ​Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Matthew Arnold,
Amos Bloomberg, Daniel Castner, Brett Dion, Erik Ferguson, Edward Hadad, George Latimer
(County Executive), Robert Olsson, Brian Pugh (Mayor)
·​ ​Complete Streets Program​– Mayor Pugh plans to enter the plan in the September 21
Board meeting correspondence. Public will be made aware that the Board will be looking at it. It
will be a work session for the Board. It could then possibly come for consideration for a
December vote. Mayor Pugh expressed concern that the plan could create a large amount of
paperwork or administrative burden on the Village staff. Mayor suggested routine street
maintenance may be exempt. Amos Bloomberg, who took the lead on the document, offered to
make revisions. Mayor will discuss it in a work session. Staff can give feedback. 2 BPC
members to attend.
·​ ​Walking School Bus program– ​About 60 families/children have expressed interest. This
program, in coordination with Mothers Out Front (MOF) is to seed/get started a group of
volunteers to accompany children to walk to school. This will enable children to avoid enclosed
bus, get exercise, and spend time with each other. The BPC does not want to manage the
program, but to help initiate it. Concerns were expressed for some crossings, e.g. Cleveland
Circle, Wood/Grand. Would new signage be needed? Committee agreed to see how it plays out
and then be in a better position to make suggestions. Walking bus to start on Monday, Sept 21.
It was agreed to BOE should also be informed of these plans.
·​ ​Signage Survey – ​Given reservations expressed in the past by the Village Manager that too
much signage has been added to the Village streets, Marc Albrecht started cataloging street
signs using Google maps on one stretch of Van Wyck Street. This data could then be used to
help pare unneeded street signage so that Village would feel freer to post additional signage
that would encourage walking or biking (Shared Bike Path signs, etc.). Using Street View, a
spreadsheet, cataloguing coordinates, this process took an hour. A discussion on how useful
this would be for the effort it would require was debated. Committee decided to table the
process for now.
·​ ​Master Plan​ – The master plan document created by the BPC needs to be combined with
the PIE plan supplement to create a new Master plan. The Chair will circulate that google doc
once more. All members will have an opportunity for a final look to make any changes. The BPC
can then approve and forward to the Village Board for consideration.

·​ ​County Executive George Latimer​ joined the meeting. He said the way he learns about
issues around the county is to make surprise appearances. He claimed that not many towns in
Westchester have committees specifically for biking and pedestrian issues and he was curious
to see the work this committee engaged with.

·​

​ ​Half Moon Bay River Promenade–

1.​ ​The promenade should be made ADA compliant. The locked gate of the
southern end is finally going to be opened and the path repaired after damage in
Hurricane Sandy. The HMB HOA however, appears to want fieldstone, instead of
asphalt, which would be prohibitive to certain people with disabilities.
2.​ ​The northern gate is locked during non-public access hours. The gate is
imposing, unwelcoming, and does not adequately convey to the public that
anyone has access to this area.
3.​ ​Robert Olsson suggested writing a letter to the Planning Board and Village
Board to adequately convey these concerns.
End of business.
Next meeting October 20. 7:30PM.

