Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, November 4, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simmons made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$74,829.88
$12,826.93
$1,200.00
$375,257.38
$2,398.00

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
Lauren Davis, 14 Hamilton Avenue, Croton on Hudson, questioned (25
South Riverside Avenue project) if the stair towers are in violation since
they appear to exit into the garage rather than directly outside; asked if
the garage will be manned with a parking valet since eight spaces are
double loaded; questioned why the Planning Board says that there will not
be traffic problems and that this solves neighborhood parking but where
will visitors park; concerned about the proposed construction of the
retaining walls since 67% of the site is classified as steep slope;
concerned with some of the “backside” apartments on the first and
second floor that look out onto the retaining wall; asked what is the
anticipated use for the large room that is being shown in the center on the
west side, asked why wasn’t a roof plan provided since it is apparent from
the elevations that the stair towers provide access to the roof, concerned
that they have not yet determined how to solve the grading issue; and
asked that notices be sent out to the entire community when public
hearings are scheduled.
4. CORRESPONDENCE

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 2

a. Email from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated October 29,
2020 advising the Board of membership changes.
b. Inter-Municipal Agreement from “Westchester County Refuse Disposal
District No. 1” regarding a “Residential Food Scrap Transportation &
Disposal Program”.
Mayor Pugh asked that the Agreement be forwarded to the
“Sustainability Committee” for their review and comment before the
Board discusses it in a Work Session.
c. Email from Rose Cappa dated October 24, 2020 announcing that
Vincent Duffy has been accepted into the “Westchester County Senior
Hall of Fame Class of 2020”; a Virtual event has been scheduled for
December 4th.
Trustee Gallelli stated that Vincent Duffy has done a lot for our seniors
over many years; during the Pandemic he has held weekly Zoom
meetings, put out a monthly newsletter and has organized weekly
meetings in the parks and it is wonderful that he has been chosen.
d. Email from Joseph Martinelli, adjutant of Fox-Eklof American Legion
Post 505 dated October 30, 2020 advising that they will be holding a
very small Veteran’s Day ceremony at “Five Corners” and they are
asking residents to recognize Veterans by standing outside their
homes at 7:00pm and either sing or play the “National Anthem”.
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –
Mitchel Bring, 12 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, asked if the
public can participate in the site visit at the Hudson National Golf Club
and asked for an explanation of the SEQRA process and the various
public comment periods.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that we are at the very beginning of a
long process and the public will have a number of opportunities to
comment; the Board of Trustees will hold public hearings on the “Special
Permit” and the Planning Board will hold public hearings on the “Site
Plan” approval; the Board of Trustees, acting as “Lead Agency”, will
undertake a SEQRA Review and will receive input from the Planning
Board on any potential environmental issues and the Board will then
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 3

make a determination whether these issues will have any significant
adverse environmental impacts.
Mayor Pugh stated that the “New York Departmental of Environmental
Conservation” provides a “flow chart” of the process that he is happy to
share with him and encouraged Mr. Bring to go onto the Village’s Web
Site and “Subscribe to News” so that he receives agendas for Board of
Trustees meetings, Planning Board meetings as well the Waterfront
Advisory Council meetings.
Village Manager King advised Mr. Bring that he can participate in the site
visit and will forward the information to him.
Lauren Davis, 14 Hamilton Avenue, Croton on Hudson stated that it is
unclear to her from Local Law #9 how a building is measured because if
you look at the current drawings (25 South Riverside Avenue) many of
the areas are much higher than thirty-five feet, the building from level
one to roof elevation is forty-five feet and another thirteen feet higher at
the top of the egress, it is very confusing and she is very concerned. Ms.
Davis stated that the documents presented for this meeting indicated
that a balloon test and a site meeting was done, but there wasn’t a site
meeting and the developer only showed a balloon test from the first
drawings not the second set of drawings and asked how they can
determine how to reinforce the hill if there aren’t any “Geotechnical”
tests being done. Ms. Davis asked that notices of Public Hearings be sent
out to the entire community.
Lindsay Audin, 221 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that they
had looked at the “Residential Food Scrap Transportation & Disposal
Program” before. Mr. Audin advised that the materials could be taken to
any site that a carting company decides to take it to and is concerned
that we may be creating more greenhouse gases from the diesel fumes
of the trucks driving to these sites then would be saved by going through
the composting process and does not see much value in the IMA since we
do not have control of where these materials will go. Mr. Audin stated
that he does see any dollar savings as well.
Mayor Pugh stated that the “Sustainability Committee” will look at this
further but if we find this is the case, he does not see the need to bring it
back to the Board for further discussion.
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 4

6. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #153 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village would like to create a new Chapter 158, Masks and FaceCoverings, in the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to require the use of
masks and face-coverings in certain areas during public health emergencies; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on November 16, 2020, at 6 PM to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 7 of 2020 to create Chapter 158, Masks and Face-Coverings, in the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that this Law, if adopted, would not go into effect immediately, it
requires invocation of a public health emergency by the Village Manager and
creates a tool for the Village Administration to use in the event that this Pandemic
becomes more acute.
Resolution #154 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Ralph Rossi and Philip Spagnoli for a multi-residential building at 25 South
Riverside Avenue; and
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 5

WHEREAS on September 8, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent to
serve as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its
intent to all involved agencies; and
WHEREAS on October 19, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared themselves
as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes; and
WHEREAS the Planning Board has reviewed the application and submitted a memo
of support; and
WHEREAS the Waterfront Advisory Committee has reviewed the application and
submitted a memo of consistency with the Village’s LWRP,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on December 7, 2020, at 6 PM, to consider the request
for a special permit from Ralph Rossi and Philip Spagnoli for a multi-residential
building at 25 South Riverside Avenue; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #155 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB and seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) has applied for a subdivision of its
property to create a separate 15-acre lot to be leased for a solar array, an amended
special permit for the Club use on the reduced property, and site plan and special
permit for the proposed tier 3 solar energy; and
WHEREAS on October 5, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent to
serve as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its
intent to all involved agencies; and
WHEREAS the Village has received comments back from the Westchester County
Planning Board and the Village Planning Board stating that they have no objections
to the Village Board of Trustees serving as Lead Agency; and
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 6

WHEREAS the 30-day window to send comments regarding the Village’s intent to
serve as lead agency has now passed,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the proposed
action; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers the
special permit application to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for
recommendation of consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP).
Resolution #156 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simmons Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, Tom Waitkins, Village Assessor, has submitted a memo regarding the
property located at 13 Wood Road, designated on the tax maps as Section 68.17,
Block 003, Lot 050, and
WHEREAS such memo indicates that an assessment increase was placed on the
property for improvements/renovations which ultimately did not get completed; and
WHEREAS the Assessor has completed New York State Form RP-556 to process a
refund in the amount of $737.27 to the property owner due to this clerical error,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to sign the aforementioned form; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to issue a
refund to the property owner in the amount of $737.27.
Resolution #157 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 7

WHEREAS Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) has applied for a subdivision of its
property to create a separate 15-acre lot to be leased for a solar array, an amended
special permit for the Club use on the reduced property, and site plan and special
permit for the proposed tier 3 solar energy; and
WHEREAS on October 5, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent to
serve as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its
intent to all involved agencies; and
WHEREAS on November 4, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes; and
WHEREAS a proposal from Chazen Companies of White Plains, New York, has been
received for professional services related to the aforementioned application in the
amount of $7,500; and
WHEREAS an escrow account in the amount of $10,000 was established by the
Board of Trustees on September 8, 2020, to pay for such services,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to accept the proposal from Chazen Companies in
the amount of $7,500; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such funding is available in the following account:
T30.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that we are going to need their assistance during this review
and is glad that they have provided the Village with a good proposal.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Mitchel Bring, 12 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that it is
his opinion that there are two inaccurate statements on the “Short
Environmental Assessment Form” with respect to Hudson National Golf
Club. Mr. Bring stated that the property in question was originally
acknowledged as “forest land” not “suburban land” and would like this
brought to the attention of the Environmental Consultant. Mr. Bring also
addressed the question regarding storm water discharge onto adjacent
properties and it is his opinion that it most certainly will and asked that
this be corrected as well.
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 8

Village Attorney Whitehead stated that she will review these issues with
the Environmental Consultant.
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
October 19, 2020 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz. and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on October 26, 2020
was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib. and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
9.

REPORTS

Trustee Gallelli advised that she and Mayor Pugh had the privilege to be the
judges for the Goblin Contest held last Saturday. Trustee Gallelli stated that
“Drug Take Back Day” held last week was also a successful event. Trustee
Gallelli encouraged residents to continue to tune into the Village’s “Police
Reform” forums, one will be held tomorrow evening at 7:00pm for the
Spanish speaking community, the last two forums will be aimed at young
adults and for the community at large.
Trustee Horowitz stated that the “Diversity and Inclusion Committee” has
been working on a series of community conversations around the themes of
racism and discrimination; at their next session they will be discussing the
movie 13th.
Mayor Pugh congratulated Trustee Gallelli on her re-election and Len Simon
on his election as Trustee. Mayor Pugh thanked the “Hudson Valley Gateway
Chamber of Commerce” for their participation in the Goblin Contest. Mayor
Pugh advised that a Blood Drive organized by Croton EMS will be held this
Saturday at the Harmon Firehouse from 10:00am-4:00pm.
Mayor Pugh appointed Lisa Stefanoff to the “Diversity and Inclusion
Committee”
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote. 6:53pm
Respectfully submitted
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 9

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

9

