THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2020
Present:

Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan
Mr. Krisky

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference of September 8, 2020
to order at 8:03 p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19
pandemic.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Croton View Properties, LLC --Wells Fargo Bank--50 Maple Street (Sec. 79.09 Block
1 Lot 30)--Application for amended site plan to upgrade ATM lighting.
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to open the public hearing on this amended site plan application,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
Ms. Amanda Hense, of GMR Facility + Analysis, stated that the main scope of the project is to
add lighting during hours of darkness to the ATM area at the Wells Fargo bank at 50 Maple
Street location in order to meet state lighting standards and requirements. With newer LED
technology of the proposed plan, there will be better light distribution. The floodlights are being
removed; the lighting will be directed towards the ATM area. In response to the Planning
Board’s questions from the previous meeting on whether or not the lights are dimmable, Ms.
Hense stated that they will be able to be dimmed as needed. When asked if the light poles
could be changed from square to round so that the lights could be adjusted if necessary, Ms.
Hense responded that it was not a problem.
There being no comments from the public, Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing,
seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
Being there were no further comments from the board members, Mr. Haynes made a motion to
grant amended site plan approval for the proposed ATM lighting with the following conditions 1)
that round poles are to be installed in order to adjust the lighting fixtures if necessary, 2) that the
landlord give his approval for the application, and 3) that, as required by section 230-47C (4) no
glare shall be beyond the lot line. If required by the Village Engineer the new lighting fixtures
shall be adjusted to limit any glare to the property line. Mr. Krisky seconded the motion and the

motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL vote: Krisky - aye Ghegan - aye, Luntz aye, Kauderer - aye and Haynes - aye).
b) LNI Industries LLC--68 Morningside Drive (Sec. 79.09 Block 6 Lot 10.02)--Application
for Minor Site Plan approval and steep slopes permit for the construction of new singlefamily dwelling.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing on the steep slopes permit, seconded by
Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0 all in favor.
Ms. Arbusto, of Cronin Engineering, and Mr. Misiti, owner of the property, joined the Zoom video
conference. Ms. Arbusto presented the site plan for the single-family residence on existing
steep slopes. She stated that as discussed at the last meeting, each tree was inventoried and
was noted on the plan whether or not it would be removed. The applicant was proposing
screening where most of the trees were being removed. All the trees were coming down except
two (letters c and e, maple and cherry respectively) which would lean over the proposed house.
The Planning Board discussed the trees and the proposed removal of trees, and suggested that
that these two trees (letters c and e) did not appear to be too much in the way of the
construction and therefore should be left as is, even if they weren’t in great condition.
Ms. Arbusto noted that the large ash tree would be removed. Mr. Misiti stated that the neighbor
was in agreement with the removal of the large ash tree. The Planning Board agreed that many
of the ash trees in the village had some sort of blight and were dying; however,
the Planning Board requested that the applicant obtain written confirmation from the neighbor
that he was in agreement with the removal of the ash tree. The applicant also agreed to submit
a plan which specifies the tree species, 3” caliper minimum, for the ash tree replacement.
The Planning Board also requested that the applicant provide a more detailed phasing
(construction) plan, a condition which is in the resolution. Mr. Misiti stated that it was his hope
to start at the end of September and finish at the end of March /early April. He would then plant
the shrubs.
When asked about the foundation and retaining wall, Mr. Misiti stated that he hoped to dig the
foundation and build the retaining wall at the same time. He hoped to avoid a large stockpile of
earth, especially seeing that there is a runoff possibility.
The Village Engineer stated that there should be additional orange construction silt fencing
placed on the higher grade. The Village Engineer also asked for a detail sheet on the curbing of
the driveway.
Chairman Luntz opened the public hearing to comments from the public.

2

Ms. Julie Franco and Mr. Steve Kutz, 70 Morningside Drive, stated that their main concern was
the grading and drainage and were pleased to hear that the drainage would be adjusted to
lessen the impact on their property. They would like confirmation that this would happen.
The Village Engineer added that the applicant should consider creating a berm or a swale for
water coming downhill on the west side. Mr. Kauderer stated that in the resolution there should
be a provision that the remainder of the asphalt driveway will be removed and grass planted
with permission from the neighbor at 70 Morningside Drive.
Ms. Nee and Mr. Paul Perreira, 144 Old Post Road South, stated that they were on the down
slope of the proposed house, and were concerned about water runoff. Most of the trees being
removed would also have an impact on their privacy as well as the future owners of the
proposed house. Although they appreciated the attention to screening on the other neighbor’s
side, the trees in the rear yard are quite substantial and serve a privacy purpose in the rear of
their yard. Ms. Nee further noted that the storms are getting worse and they were concerned
about sheets of water running down the hill. They were also concerned about the distance
where the house is being built from their property line. The proposed retaining wall system
appears to be quite tall, and they also were concerned that this would be an aesthetic issue.
Ms. Arbusto noted that the applicant had proposed some mitigation for the drainage from
Morningside Drive to the village drainage system and there should be improved flow and a
system to catch any overflow. He noted that the retaining wall is designed to look like one unit
with a blend of grays, brown and rust and this is what the Ms. Nee and Mr. Parreira will see in
their backyard. He added that the third level on the property is being brought back to grad so
the new owner will have some flat usable backyard space. He noted that flat land also helps
drainage.
Ms. Nee responded that from their angle, the grade will be higher and they will see the wall and
a house, with not enough space between the houses. With the pitch differences in the property,
the wall will feel higher than five feet.
The Village Engineer wondered whether a vine planted on the wall that weeps over the edge
might help.
Ms. Nee reiterated their concerns about the aesthetics of a tall retaining wall and wondered if
there was a possibility to push the wall back and plant trees on the property line so that it
creates a screen. Although this would lessen the amount of flattened back yard of the proposed
new house construction, it would alleviate the visual of seeing the big wall in their backyard.
Ms. Nee stated that they would like to propose more trees. She agreed that trees “f” and “g” are
dead and dangerous, but all of the other trees provide privacy that everyone appreciates. They
want to continue what they have and make it visually appealing for everyone.

3

Ms. Catherine Kendall, 148 Old Post Road South, stated she had the same issues with the
aesthetics of the retaining wall and lack of screening that Nee/Parreira have. She stated that
she liked the idea of a vine growing over the wall. Ms. Nee added that the vines however would
be there for only part of the year.
Mr. Kauderer stated that it seemed that the neighbors were being reasonable, that the retaining
wall is providing flat land to the proposed house, but disadvantages the neighbors to the south.
After further discussion, it was agreed that the applicant would provide a more detailed and
finalized plan which would show the retaining wall moved back approximately three feet and
specify which shrubs (possibly decorative pines, rose of sharon, and/or other plantings) would
be planted. Mr. Misiti stated that there is only a one-year survival guarantee of the plantings,
and after that it would be up to the new homeowners of the proposed house.
Chairman Luntz stated that he agreed with the discussion regarding pushing back the retaining
wall, adding dwarf pines or shrubs to provide screening between the properties, and to plant a
little larger tree on the western corner to enhance privacy. He stated that he would still like to
see these adjustments on a landscape plan and that the Planning Board would wait until the
next meeting to consider voting on the application.
The Planning Board members also requested that a backyard picture/rendering and elevations
be provided of the rear view of the proposed house. The public hearing will remain open.
When asked by the applicant if any work could commence, Chairman Luntz stated that there
needs to be a minor site plan approval before any work could begin, and the tree removal permit
is part of site plan approval. He stated that the changes are not insignificant but hoped that with
the neighbors and the developer being reasonable the application could move forward.
c) 1360 Albany Post Road LLC-- 1360 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.10 Block 2 Lot 12)-Application for Amended Site plan approval for modifications to previously approved
garden center site plan.
The Planning Board noted that they had a site visit on August 19, 2020 with the property owner
and the architect and they had a better appreciation of what the applicant was proposing.
Mr. Hernandez and Mr. Silva thanked the Planning Board for going on the site visit, and it was
very helpful for them too.
There was a discussion on the parking area, and there was some concern that the three spots
in front of the entrance of the building would be difficult for customers to maneuver. The
Planning Board agreed that it would be more convenient to have what had been considered the
future parking area to become the actual parking area and to eliminate the front three parking
spaces. The Planning Board agreed that they would still have 25 spaces, 8 more than required

4

and 17 of those can be paved, with the extra spaces being gravel. The side parking spaces can
be for employees.
The Planning Board requested that the applicant provide more detail on the plan about the
parking area (pavers, asphalt) at the next meeting.
The Planning Board requested that there be a more detailed landscape plan to include detailed
tree location and tree identification.
The members also requested a status report with the NYSDOT. Mr. Hernandez stated that they
were told that they were waiting for the local NYSDOT department to comment but that the state
had no comments and were ready to move forward with the lease agreement after a meeting on
September 15. The Planning Board also requested a better rendering to show the fence and
stonewall along the highway.
The public hearing remains open until the next meeting.
3. REFERRAL
a) Rossi, Ralph and Spagnoli, Philip--21-27 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.8 Block 5 Lots 42, 43,
59, 60)—Consent for the Village Board to be Lead Agency on application for special permit for
44-unit, multi-family housing building.

Mr. Kauderer made a motion to consent to the Village Board being Lead Agency for the special
permit application submitted by Mr. Rossi and Mr. Spagnoli regarding the proposal for a 44-unit
multi-family building at 21-27 South Riverside Avenue, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the
motion carried all in favor by 5-0.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of August 25, 2020, as amended, seconded
by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:43 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

