VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES FOR THE MEETING OF THE PLANNING BOARD FOR
TUESDAY, June 23, 2020
Zoom Video Conference
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan (Absent)
Steve Krisky

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. The Municipal
Building has been closed to the public due to public health reasons during the
Coronavirus pandemic.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) 34 Brook Street LLC-- 34 Brook Street (Sec.78.08 Block 5 Lots 31,32) -Application for amended site plan approval and wetlands permit for proposed
residential apartment building (six apartments).
Chairman Luntz noted that a letter of recommendation for a wetlands permit had been received.
In reviewing the itemized list for site plan approval, there remained only one open item which is
on the trash/recycling area. Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board had agreed at the
last meeting that this can be addressed during the building permit process. The Planning Board
confirmed with the applicant that the chain link fencing would be 4 feet high since the trash bins
usually are that height.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the
motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the amended site plan and wetland permit,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Gilday, Kerri and Fenger, Hilmar-- 40 Prospect Place (SBL) -- Application for
minor site plan approval and referral to the Water Control Commission (for
disturbance near a waterbody/watercourse buffer zone).

Chairman Luntz acknowledged that the Planning Board received a recommendation from the
Water Control Commission for the wetlands permit using erosion and sediment control
measures and silt fencing. The Planning Board agreed that they would recommend a
modification of the deed restriction to allow the minor site plan that the Planning Board
approved.
Chairman Luntz noted that his biggest concern had been about the driveway but the applicant
had shown that the parking was exclusive to their use and that there was adequate parking on
site for the other tenants.
The Planning Board agreed that adding a condition (#2) in the minor site plan resolution which
recommends the modification of the deed restriction would be sufficient for communicating the
Planning Board’s recommendation to the Village Board. The condition will state that the
Planning Board hereby recommends to the Village Board that the deed restriction be amended
given the extenuating circumstances of the applicant’s child, the relatively small size of the
house, the modest size of the proposed addition, and the size of the family.
MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the minor site plan and wetland permit, and
recommend the modification of the deed restriction to the Village Board, seconded by Mr.
Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
b) Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association -- Half Moon Bay Condominiums -Application for Wetland Permit for proposed Riverwalk and Revetment
Stabilization plan and referral to the Waterfront Advisory Committee and the
Water Control Commission.
Mr. Kauderer stated that he was encouraged to see that the Village Attorney seemed to agree
with the replacement of the field stones on the promenade. The Planning Board agreed that the
promenade should be an accessible ADA compliant pathway, whether asphalt or some other
accessible surface. The Planning Board members also agreed that the architectural review
powers of the Planning Board include being able to determine what surface the pathway should
be. The Planning Board agreed that asphalt would be more economical. Chairman Luntz noted
that the standard detail in the first submittal is wholly inadequate to the proximity of the river and
that the makeup of the base condition of the pathway and the revetment must be engineered in
a way that isn’t going to fail in several years as it has in the past. Furthermore, Chairman Luntz
pointed out that the construction detail should be adequate for the conditions (e.g. high tide) and
the current surface has been inadequate.
In response to Mr. Haynes’ question about the Planning Board’s involvement with the revetment
stabilization plan, the Village Engineer stated that part of the permit is to repair the revetment
which protects the promenade from the river. A part of the plan submitted called for additional
boulders to be placed in certain areas. The application will be referred and reviewed by the
Water Control Commission and the Waterfront Advisory Committee on the issuance of a

2

Wetland permit. Once the Planning Board receives these recommendations, the Planning
Board can ask for more information regarding any questions they still have.
The Planning Board agreed that the meeting minutes, the email from the Village Attorney, and
the email from the Wehrles, should be included in the packets that are given to the Water
Control Commission so that the WCC has an understanding of some of the discussions held
and what the Planning Board’s preference is.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to refer the application to the Water Control Commission and the
Waterfront Advisory Committee, seconded by Mr. Kauderer and the motion carried 5-0, all in
favor.
4. NEW BUSINESS
a) 1360 Albany Post Road Corp -- 1360 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.10 Block 2 Lot 12) -Application for Amended Site plan approval for modifications to previously approved
garden center site plan.
Mr. Hernandez, architect, stated that the owner wanted to enclose the area which had
previously been open on the approved amended site plan.
Mr. Hernandez stated that they had been working with the NYS DOT regarding the area
highlighted in red on the proposed plan. This area is controlled by the DOT but is part of the
property. It was recommended to them that they start with the lease because it was simpler and
a shorter process to be able to use the land.
Mr. Hernandez explained the proposed expansion of the interior area, and Chairman Luntz
pointed out that the actual expansion of this interior area, and the exterior patio area now being
proposed to be closed, doubled the conditioned space. The Planning Board asked why the
applicant wanted the space so large. Mr. Hernandez explained that this enclosed space was
meant to be a showroom space and by enclosing it, Mr. Silva could use it in the winter as well.
The Planning Board wanted to know if this proposed expansion complies with the zoning code
and questioned how it was going to fit in with the surrounding properties. The Planning Board
stated that they had previously been in favor of this application with regard to the overhang and
the configuration and patio space; now it looked completely different with solid walls with glass
and three times larger than what had been previously approved. The Planning Board asked
that the applicant return with more specific renderings, side elevations, and recalculations for
the indoor space and the parking. Mr. Hernandez stated he would return with this information
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing for July 14, 2020, seconded by
Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor, 5-0. (Roll call: Chairman Luntz, aye, Mr.
Kauderer, aye, Mr. Haynes, aye, Mr. Krisky, aye, and Mr. Ghegan, aye).

3

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of June 9, 2020
seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 4-0.
Mr. Krisky commented to the Village Engineer that the bike path in back of Half Moon
Bay had a lot of exposed roots and was dangerous for bikers.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:22 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

4

