THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
ON TUESDAY, JULY 14, 2020
Present:

Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Krisky
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board of Trustees Liaison
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference to order at 7:04 p.m.
The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Boulos, John -- 30 Piney Point Avenue (Sec. 79.13 Blk. 4 Lot 44)-- Amendment
of minor site plan approval for single-family house construction to modify tree
removal permit and to apply for steep slope permit.
b) Franzoso, Mark-- 32 Piney Point Avenue (Sec.79.13 Blk. 4 Lot 45)--Amendment
of minor site plan approval for single-family house construction to modify tree
removal permit and to apply for steep slope permit.
Ms. Cross, attorney for the applicant, updated the Planning Board on the two minor site plan
applications since the public hearing had been opened in January 2020. On February 28, 2020,
they received a review letter with technical comments on the site plans from Chazen, then there
had been a delay due to the pandemic COVID-19 outbreak, on June 15, 2020 a comprehensive
submission was submitted to Chazen in response to the technical comments, and on June
26,2020 Chazen responded that all comments were addressed.
Ms. Cross noted that Mr. Kauderer had also requested a new rendering, but due to a technical
difficulty, th landscape architect had to use the old renderings to create a new landscape
rendering.
Ms. Cross stated that the whole team was present on the videoconference, and were available
to address any questions.
Chairman Luntz acknowledged that Chazen had been satisfied with the response to their
comments and asked if the board members had any further questions.

The Village Engineer stated that one of the major changes was with the addition of a retaining
wall between the two parking areas, which provides more slope stability as well as more stability
to the road and reduces the slope and elevation drop.
There was a discussion on the types of trees and size on the sites, and Ms. Ayala, from Imbiano
Landscaping, stated that there had been an increase in the number of trees to be planted (from
20 to 34 trees). These trees will be the same size as previously submitted since anything larger
was not feasible because of root ball size and the slope. The Planning Board agreed that the
increase of trees was beneficial to the site. When asked about the trees removed along the
street, the Village Engineer stated that it was an item that the Village Manager stated she would
handle.
Mr. Haynes asked for details on the construction plan. Mr. Gemmola stated that
some poles needed to be removed from Con Ed, and once these were removed, the platform
could be finished, and then drainage and sewer line work to follow. The applicant was hopeful to
move the poles in the next month and then in August fill in the driveway and create the
platforms. After this point, construction of the houses could begin. The applicant hoped to have
the houses built by the end of the year. In a response to the question about plantings, Mr.
Franzoso stated that the best time to plant would be in late September or October.
Chairman Luntz asked if anyone from the public would like to speak since the public hearing
was still open from January.
Mr. DePass, 10 Nordica Drive, asked about a warranty if any of the trees were to die in the first
two years and if they would be replaced. Ms. Ayala responded that there is a warranty and
confirmed that if any plantings died within two years they would be replaced. Ms. Ayala also
stated that the contractor usually checks in with the trees to make sure that the trees are doing
well. The Planning Board agreed that a condition in the resolution would be to require an
inspection of the tree plantings at the 18-month mark. Ms. Cross was in agreement. Mr.
DePass was satisfied with the 18-month follow up.
Mr. Russ Davies, 27 Nordica Drive, stated that he both appreciated Mr. DePass’s comments
about the maintenance of the trees as well as Mr. Hayne’s recommendations for a construction
sequence. He stated that he is interested in seeing the construction completed as soon as
possible, but he was concerned that in the delivery of the trees to the site that his property
would be encroached upon. He wanted the properties to be resurveyed to confirm the corner of
Mr. Franzoso’s lot and his lot. Ms. Cross stated that a recent survey was submitted. Mr. Davies
stated that he wanted the corners staked so that the contractor was aware of where they could
and could not go.
Chairman Luntz stated that he understands the concern, and wondered if there was an
alternative approach to planting the trees from Nordica and instead access the site from Piney
Point. The Planning Board agreed that it might be a better solution to explore if it were feasible
to plant the trees from above (Piney Point access).
2

Ms. Cross stated that they can explore the safest way to install the trees and the contractor
would be cognizant of the corner of that property. Ms. Cross stated that she would agree to the
condition to demonstrate how and where all trees and plantings were brought to the site, as well
as to explore the best way o installing the landscaping.
The Planning Board also stated that there should be a construction plan that lays out the
schedule as to what activity is being done and when the landscaping is happening. Ms. Cross
agreed that they will submit a timeline during the construction sequence and incorporate the
pole removals.
Mr. DePass asked about whether the capacity of the existing sewer lines could handle the extra
waste of the two additional new homes and rainwater runoff. The Village Engineer explained
that the Nordica Drive sewage pump station could handle the two additional houses. The Village
Engineer also explained that the catch basin on Nordica Drive will collect the water from the
property and will not cause any downstream issues. When asked if soil could flow into the
system, the Village Engineer stated that the site had been winterized with erosion and sediment
control measures. Ms. Arbusto, from Cronin Engineering, added that erosion and sediment
control measures are addressed during construction and will be monitored throughout the
construction. She noted that att any point, it can be updated or changed.
Mr. Haynes moved to close the public hearing, Mr. Krisky seconded, but seeing that there was
another comment from the public (on the zoom screen), the public hearing was reopened by Mr.
Krisky, and seconded by Mr. Haynes.
Ms. Meyer, 4 Piney Point, asked about any plan to fix any potential damage caused by large
construction equipment since previously one of the trucks had damaged a storm drain. Ms.
Cross stated that if one of the construction vehicles caused damage, the applicant would handle
repair, but added that if there was general degradation of the roadway, then the village would be
responsible, not the applicant.
There being no further comments from the public, Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public
hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the public hearing closed by a vote of 5-0.
Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the steep slopes permit and modify the tree removal
permit with the following added conditions for both properties:
1. A construction sequencing time frame shall be submitted.
2. Corner stakes shall be placed at the southeast corner and access point
3. The applicant shall investigate options of access for planting of the trees
4. There shall be an 18-month checkup on the plantings so the warranty can be enforced
5. If damage is caused beyond the extent of property and caused by construction, the
applicant shall be responsible for the repairs.
6. Plans are to be revised to show the correct measurements of the easement area on the
survey dated July 19, 2019 and updated topographic survey dated May 8, 2020.
3

7. The landscape architect shall certify that the species and trees were planted as noted on
the landscape plan
8. Periodic inspection reports from the applicant’s engineer shall be submitted to the
Village Engineer.
9. The temporary shoring plans shall be submitted to the engineer of record for review and
approval and said approval shall be submitted to the Village Engineer.
For 30 Piney Point, Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve with conditions for , seconded by Mr.
Krisky, all in favor (ROLL CALL: Luntz aye, Ghegan aye, Krisky aye, Haynes aye, Kauderer)
For 32 Piney Point, Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve, seconded by Mr. Ghegan and all in
favor 5-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz aye, Ghegan aye, Krisky aye, Haynes aye, Kauderer))
b) 1360 Albany Post Road Corp--1360 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.10 Block 2 Lot 12)
--Amendment of minor site plan approval for single-family house construction to modify
tree removal permit and to apply for steep slope permit.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, all in favor 5-0.
Mr. Hernandez explained that he had changed some of the parking to 17 parking spaces for an
increased sized 300 sq. foot showroom; the previously approved green screen in the back will
be replaced by a chain link fence. Also added is an enclosed display area.
Chairman Luntz stated that originally the green wall was proposed to screen some of the
storage of materials, and now it looked like instead of an outdoor showroom as previously
approved, there is a proposed shed structure, 200 ft. long and 20 feet high for imported
materials.
Chairman Luntz noted that in the earlier amended site plan, it had been presented by the
applicant as a series of gardens one could stroll through, viewing outdoor patio display areas for
fireplaces, grills, etc., and now what was being presented looks like an outdoor warehouse for
an import/export business. Chairman Luntz stated that this is a totally different concept, and a
very large and different structure than was previously presented and approved.
All the Planning Board members concurred with Chairman Luntz. They agreed that the use was
very different from what had been agreed upon originally and it was much larger than what the
Planning Board had envisioned. The members also agreed that the storage shed is not a
showroom and the building, which originally had been expanded to having a porch and now is
being proposed as enclosed, makes the entire site look like a storage area with an industrial
use. Mr. Kauderer questioned whether the shed, as an accessory structure, would be legal
under the Zoning code, in addition to the aesthetic issues.
The Planning Board agreed that this proposal is much different from a garden center, and that it
had changed the whole scope of what was there before; the current proposal appears to be a
4

storage facility for a wholesale outfit, a concept which is completely different from what was
originally presented. The size and scope of the plan presented this evening also did not
consider the surrounding neighborhood. The Planning Board suggested that Mr. Hernandez
speaks with his client and conveys the comments from the board. The public hearing will be
kept open.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the minutes of June 23, 2020, seconded by Mr.
Krisky, and the motion carried all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 9:30
p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

