THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2020
Present:

Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan
Mr. Krisky

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference August 25, 2020 to
order at 7:05 p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19
pandemic.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association—Half Moon Bay Condominiums --– Application for
Wetlands Permit for proposed Riverwalk and Revetment Stabilization plan.

Chairman Luntz stated that the public hearing on this application was still open. He invited
comments from the public:
Mr. Mastromonaco, P.E., consulting engineer on behalf of the applicant, stated that the HOA
wants to repair the revetment and the dispute is whether or not replacing the path along the
edge of revetment is to be replaced with in-kind material or with some other material.
Chairman Luntz acknowledged receipt of two letters, one from the HOA’s law firm, and one from
the HOA’s attorney, Ms. Sharon Reich.
Ms. Reich stated that the letter states the HOA’s position, and she asserted that the wetlands
permit does not necessitate including the material for the riverwalk. She stated that requiring a
certain surface for the path is beyond the scope of the wetlands application and outside the
purview of the Planning Board’s authority. She noted that last year when the revetment work
had started, there had been no permit required for the riverwalk repair; it would have been
replaced in kind. She stated that just because something unforeseeable happened (the
contractor made a mistake), doesn’t undo what was originally supposed to happen.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that the walkway is at the edge of a cliff and would be a danger to
anyone who was disabled or handicapped. He further stated that there should be signs
prohibiting wheelchairs and walkers since this walkway is so close to the revetment and there is
too much liability associated with making this an ADA accessible path.

1

Mr. Kauderer stated that he recollected that there is a grassy area where the stones were and
that since the easement is 15’ and the path is required to be 6 ft., the path could go further to
the east. He believes the law requires that the path be ADA compliant and it is the responsibility
of the HOA, under ADA and under the easement, to make it compliant.
Ms. Reich stated that the path is a separate issue and that attaching the condition of a smooth
surface to the path is outside the scope of the Planning Board; the Planning Board is trying to fix
a mistake and they cannot do this.
Mr. Kauderer reiterated that the Planning Board has the authority and believes it is important to
provide a smooth surface; this path should never have been approved as is.
Mr. Haynes stated that the pathway is not an impervious walkway, and the water can go in
these stones which facilitates erosion. The Planning Board wants to control the erosion and
create a smooth surface which is less of a risk to those using the path.
Ms. Reich stated that if the contractor had done what he was supposed to do, the wetlands
permit would never have been needed. She reiterated that it was not up to the Planning Board
to tell the HOA how to repair the walkway.
Chairman Luntz stated that in the Planning Board’s opinion the erosion of the revetment was
exacerbated by the walkway’s permeable surface and that worsening storms over time have
contributed to the breakdown of the revetment.
Mr. Mastromonaco disagreed and stated that the perviousness of the walkway did not contribute
to the erosion of that area.
Mr. Kauderer noted that the other portion of the asphalt walkway is not eroded like this portion
and that the Planning Board has concluded that the field stones have contributed to the erosion.
Ms. Reich and Mr. Mastromonaco disagreed.
Mr. Krisky stated that the original intent of the easement was so that the public had access. The
fieldstones are difficult to traverse and this personally was not acceptable to him. He stated that
he believes the Planning Board is doing the right thing by insisting on a smooth surface instead
of keeping an unwalkable surface.
Ms. Reich noted that on the original plan the field stones were going to be placed closer
together.
Chairman Luntz opened up the discussion to public comment.
Joseph Biber, resident, stated that he had responded to comments at the last meeting. It was
his belief that it was a mistake that the stone path was approved; it was not a walkable path.
2

He also questioned the idea that the alternative for the riverwalk was the bike path behind the
HMB since the bike path near the MTA yard is not comparable to the riverwalk. Mr. Biber stated
that it is his belief that the Planning Board has an obligation to change the walkway to provide
public access. There seemed to be a clear pattern by the HOA to try to privatize the pathway
and to discourage public access.
Lisa Desamours, long time HMB homeowner, prior president of HOA and an attorney, stated
that she fully supports the HOA attorney’s position. The design of the riverwalk was approved
by the Planning Board after the ADA was enacted. She stated that if it weren't for the wetlands
permit, the village would not have put the HOA on notice that they weren’t in compliance with
the ADA.
Terence McGarty, chair of the Trails committee, spoke in support of raising awareness of trails
in Croton and to maintain the integrity of the trail walks.
Terri Weiss, resident, stated that she was disabled, uses a wheelchair, and uses the riverwalk.
She stated that the path that goes behind HMB is more accessible but is not wheelchair friendly.
She stated that the path that was installed was meant to discourage wheelchair users and it was
offensive to hear that disabled people should be prohibited from using the riverwalk path.
Domingo Ramirez, property manager, stated that he believes that the erosion at the southern
end was caused by water getting into the rocks, Hurricane Sandy and subsequent storms that
caused more damage and delayed the revetment repair. He referenced Ms. Reich’s remark
that the stones were supposed to be put back together closer which would make the walk more
accessible.
Chairman Luntz noted for clarification that the plans that were presented to the board did not
indicate “grouted and closer together.”
Peter Schuyler, attorney, stated that he had emailed two photographs, one showing the collapse
of the walkway and wanted to note that he supports Ms. Reich’s comments. He claims to
represent a number of homeowners and it is their desire to have the pathway restored to
original same design. He is also an advocate for the primary issue which is the revetment
repair-- the walkway is collapsing into the river; and the revetment needs to be repaired as soon
as possible to prevent collapse of the walkway. With all due respect to the ADA requirements, if
the board conditions revetment repair on walkway repair, there will be Article 78 to challenge the
site plan change. He stated that he hopes that the revetment repair is not conditioned on repair
of the walkway. Mr. Kauderer then pointed out that since the promenade was a common
element, only the HOA and not individual adjoining homeowners had the right to make decisions
about it like whether to commence litigation concerning it; and that accordingly his client would
have no legal standing to commence such an Article 78 proceeding.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the
motion carried all in favor.
3

Mr. Kauderer emphasized that every member of the Planning Board agrees that the repair
should go on as quickly as possible. However, the Planning Board agreed that the promenade
repair and the revetment stabilization were one application.
The Planning Board agreed that they did not want to hold up the revetment repair, however the
plans for the walkway had to be completed to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer by the
deadline of two weeks from this evening’s meeting. The Planning Board also agreed that they
did not want the work done in two phases. They agreed that the work on the revetment could
begin but the walkway would have to be asphalt or concrete, and the plans had to show this
surface.
After discussion of the draft resolution, it was also agreed that a bond in the amount of $35,000
would be required.
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the resolution with two added conditions: that work on
the revetment may commence but plans for the repair of the walkway must be submitted and
approved by the Village Engineer by two weeks from tonight (August 25, 2020), or a stop work
order is to be issued; and that the bond amount of $35,000 would be required.
Mr. Krisky seconded the motion, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0. (Roll call
vote: Mr. Ghegan, yes, Mr. Kauderer, yes, Mr. Haynes, yes, Chairman Luntz, yes, and Mr.
Krisky yes).
b) 1360 Albany Post Road LLC-- 1360 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.10 Block 2 Lot 12)-Application for Amended Site plan approval for modifications to previously approved
garden center site plan. Public hearing adjourned until September 8, 2020.
The public hearing has been adjourned until the next meeting. The Planning Board had a site
visit on Wednesday, August 19, 2020 and the members agreed they had found it to be helpful to
see the mockups of the canopies. This application will come before the board when the plans
are ready to be submitted. Mr. Kauderer noted that he had asked the Village Engineer if any
neighbor might have their river view blocked with the additional canopies, and the Village
Engineer stated this will not be an issue.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Croton View Properties, LLC --Wells Fargo Bank--50 Maple Street (Sec. 79.79.09 Block
1 Lot 30) --Application for amended site plan to upgrade ATM lighting.
Ms. Amanda Hense, of GNR lighting design, represented the application for upgrading the ATM
lighting at the 50 Maple Street Wells Fargo bank location. She stated that the purpose of
upgrading the ATM lighting is to meet state statutes and legal requirements regarding ATM
lighting during hours of darkness.

4

Ms. Hence explained that the lighting law has been in effect in New York for some time and
Wells Fargo had decided that it was necessary to make the upgrade which will keep them in
compliance for the years to come.
The plan is to install two new poles located at the back of the striped parking lot area in front of
the bank. The reason for the poles’ location is that they needed to be further away from the
power lines and also had to be in a certain radius of the ATM machine. Whereas currently the
floodlights are aimed out from the building, the new floodlights will be towards the building. The
20 ft. poles are on a three-foot base and very visible.
When asked about landlord approval, Ms. Hense stated that they have received approval from
the landlord and she will provide documentation for this approval.
Ms. Hense explained the various locations of the new lighting fixtures. She stated that the
purpose of the upgrade is that people who visit the site can feel safe during hours of darkness.
She had included in the submittal documents the photometrics which show how the upgraded
lighting met the minimum state requirements.
The Planning Board asked if the residential houses to the left of the bank would be impacted.
Ms. Hense responded that they had tried to limit the lighting on that side and the canopy fixture
would not throw out as much light.
When asked about whether the lighting could be adjusted if there was too much light, Ms.
Hense stated that Wells Fargo would be able to adjust this; the bank did not want to impede on
the neighbors. She stated that the wall lights have dimming capability and she was almost
certain that the outside lights had dimming capabilities.
When asked if the lighting would have any adverse effects on neighboring businesses, Ms.
Hense stated that hopefully it will be positive for them and that the lighting will only turn on in
hours of darkness. The lighting will also not impact Maple Street because they are eliminating
the lighting that heads towards the street.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to schedule a public hearing for September 8, 2020, seconded by Mr.
Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
b) LNI Industries LLC--68 Morningside Drive (Sec. 79.09 Block 6 Lot 10.02) -- Application
for Minor Site Plan approval for the construction of new single-family dwelling.
Ms. Arbusto, of Cronin Engineering, briefly described the site plan and the proposed house.
She stated that the proposed stick-built single family dwelling is on a steep lot and will require a
steep slopes permit.

5

It was noted by the Planning Board that 14 trees are being proposed to be removed. Ms.
Arbusto stated that the trees are not in good shape and the developer was hoping to replace
them with trees that go better with the house.
Two of the trees have to be removed due to where the drainage will be, and the tree in the front
had been evaluated by DPW and had concluded that it needed to be removed due to a vertical
scar at a major limb. The Planning Board agreed that they didn’t want to remove the trees
unnecessarily and if there is no particular need to remove a tree, it should be left in place.
Mr. Cronin stated that some of the trees may be impacted by the construction (on the right side
of the property) and they thought it would be better to remove these trees and replace them with
better sized trees.
Chairman Luntz reviewed the elevations and noted that the architectural plans should be
updated to show the intent of the walk-out basement. The Planing Board agreed that there
should also be a tree table submitted in order to itemize what trees will be planted.
The Village Engineer stated that from a zoning code perspective, the house is considered a twostory house (from the front of the house). Under the NYS building code, it would most likely be
considered a three-story house and therefore would require a sprinkler system. Mr. Cronin
stated that the builder would not take issue with that.
The Planning Board agreed that the house seemed to fit into the lot. It was recommended that
for the next meeting, the applicant submit samples of the exterior and roof shingles, that the
architectural plans match up with the site plan of the engineers with respect to contouring and
grading as well as the driveway, and that a tree plan be submitted as well.
The Planning Board members agreed that a public hearing for steep slopes would be desirable.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to schedule a public hearing for the steep slopes permit, seconded by
Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
3. Approval of Minutes:
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of July 28, 2020, as amended, seconded
by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0, in favor, and one abstention (Mr. Krisky
had not attended the July 28, 2020 meeting).
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of August 11, 2020, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
4. Adjournment
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose, Secretary to the Planning Board
6

