THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2020
Present:

Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan (arrived at 7:30)
Mr. Krisky

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference of Tuesday,
September 22, 2020 to order at 7:06 p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to
the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) MM 2020 LLC -- 337 South Riverside Avenue (Section 79.13 Block 1 Lots 61, 62)-Final approval for landscaping and patio plan for approved amended site plan for
restaurant (first floor).
Mr. DiLeo, architect for the applicant, presented the landscaping and patio plan, in which its
approval is a condition of the amended site plan resolution. He stated that the existing curb cut
will be removed and the raised curb and the sidewalk will be continuous. The patio will create a
little oasis, with planters on the patio to create privacy. At the edge of the patio there will be a
double-sided bench which can be used for those walking in the community and the patrons of
the restaurant. Furniture, lighting, and other landscaping features were noted on the landscape
plan.
The Planning Board members stated that they were pleased to see that the curb was raised,
and thought that the proposed plan would enhance the pedestrian experience.
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to accept the plan, Mr. Krisky seconded, and the motion was
carried by a vote of 4-0 (Roll call vote: Chairman Luntz AYE, Mr. Krisky AYE, Mr. Kauderer
AYE, Mr. Haynes, AYE) Mr. Ghegan arrived late and did not vote.
b) LNI Industries LLC--68 Morningside Drive (Sec. 79.09 Block 6 Lot 10.02) --Application
for Minor Site Plan approval and steep slopes permit for the construction of new singlefamily dwelling.
Ms. Arbusto, Cronin Engineering, stated that the plan had been updated and revised based on
the discussion of the previous meeting. She stated that there had been a lot line adjustment
completed in 2018. The plan included retaining walls, circular driveway, a full basement, and a

porch. The Village and the applicant will be working together to fix the drainage from the street.
They have added more construction fencing, more screening, additional silt fences and have
moved the face of the proposed retaining wall 6.5 feet from the property line, added shrubbery
for privacy screening. A river birch tree will be planted in the far-left corner. She also discussed
some of the trees that will remain.
Chairman Luntz asked if the retaining wall as proposed was sufficient to handle the planting.
Ms. Arbusto stated that they believed they moved it sufficiently far enough from the property
line, and had lowered the wall in order to keep the maximum amount of backyard for the
prospective buyers.
Chairman Luntz noted that the board had received a letter regarding the creation of the
subdivision. The Village Engineer stated that this area of the village was subdivided in 1907,
and had created three lots with the potential for three houses to be built. The original house (70
Morningside) is sitting on the property line of lots 32 and 31; the new house will be on lot 30 and
a piece of lot 31. The subdivision was filed with the County Clerk in 1908. He noted that there
are vacant lots scattered throughout the entire Harmon area. This lot line adjustment is not
subject to Planning Board review. He mentioned 152 Old Post Road South as an example of an
infill lot in the Harmon subdivision.
Mr. Kauderer stated that given the overall tone of the letter the neighbors may have
misunderstood the powers of the Planning Board. This lot is a legal building lot; the Planning
Board does not have the right to say that no one can build on it. One of the roles of the
Planning Board is to try to protect the neighbors as best as it can, such as addressing screening
and preventing undue runoff onto neighboring land. Mr. Kauderer stated that he believes that
the Planning Board has made a real effort to protect the neighbors by addressing draining,
adding screening and moving the proposed retaining wall further from the property line.
The Village Engineer also noted that the sidewalk is to be a continuous concrete sidewalk
alongside Morningside Drive and the landscape area would not be in the sidewalk area. This
revision will be in the resolution. The aprons previously for 70 Morningside Drive will now be
the driveway for 68 Morningside Drive.
The letter also mentioned sewer back-up issues. The Village Engineer stated that he had
spoken to DPW and they were not aware of any issues in the sewer line. There were not a lot
of houses connected to that line.
The Village Engineer also explained that the storm drain system that runs through the property
below an easement; the pipe is in bad condition, and the village will work with the builder to
replace the village system with brand new piping so that it doesn’t corrode. Some inlets will be
installed to catch water from the infiltrator system. The whole storm drain system will be rebuilt.
In response to concerns about a stockpile of dirt on site, Ms. Arbusto stated that the foundation
and the retaining wall is being built at the same time and there will be a small amount of dirt.
2

The builder will be adding an additional silt fence and then another one in addition to an orange
construction fence in between the closest silt fence and retaining wall.
Mr. Cronin stated that the retaining wall will serve as a buffer as well. It is inadvisable to
stockpile dirt and they will be establishing the final grade early on in the construction and then
seed early on as well.
Ms. Arbusto noted that the stones of the retaining wall are made of a concrete block and its
height ranges from three ft to just under five feet. The plantings should provide adequate
coverage.
The letter included concerns about the distance between the lots. Ms. Arbusto stated that all
side lot requirements comply with the Village Code. In response to the date of the survey, Mr.
Misiti stated that a recent survey was completed in the past year and a half.
Chairman Luntz opened the public meeting for comment.
Ms. Nee, 144 Old Post Road South, stated that they had appreciated the time and
thoughtfulness that the Planning Board was giving to their concerns. The letter however was a
summary of some of the things they were thinking of and their attempts to understand the
process. One of the main issues of concern is that the land is being changed in order to create
a flat backyard. They were also concerned that by manufacturing a backyard, everything is
being held back by the retaining wall. The Village Engineer stated that the village code allows a
retaining wall to grade off land. If this was not before the Planning Board, and the retaining wall
built later after the house was built, the new owners could come and get a building permit, and if
less than 4 ft, wouldn’t need a permit. Ms. Nee stated that from an environmental standpoint,
no other house has a level yard on the back side of their yard unless they have a double lot.
Ms. Kendall, 148 Old Post Road South, stated that the zoning that was done 100 years ago is
the current reference point and does that mean all these subdivisions can be filled in with
houses? They had been under the impression it was a small house with the same small
backyard and it appeared that the house would be towering over them. She stated that this type
of house on this land is not appropriate.
Mr. Misiti responded that it is a completely code-compliant lot, no variances are required and the
lot size meets the RA-9 zoning district requirements.
Ms. Franco, 70 Morningside Drive, stated that they had just moved in a month ago, and had
some concerns about their home being protected and its structural integrity. Chairman Luntz
stated in response that the builder is responsible for building the project in a way that doesn’t
impact neighboring properties. The builder needs to take precautions so that he doesn’t
negatively impact his neighbors but at the same time, people have rights to build.

3

Mr. Balter, 148 Old Post Road South, stated that the neighbors have laid out the issues and the
letter was signed by all the neighbors that will be most affected by the proposed house. At the
last meeting they had been impressed by the open mindedness of the Planning Board to make
certain changes but he believes the tone has changed and it appears to him that the Planning
Board is veering close to being an advocate of the builder. He stated that they did not have any
opportunity to really look at the plans. He stated that they are not saying that no house should
be built but rather the Planning Board should make deference to the neighbors’ issues. He
further stated that they would like to have the time to review the engineering and have their own
surveys done. He stated that they could not take the applicant’s word that the survey and
engineering are correct and therefore would like a month delay in the Planning Board’s
decision.
Mr. Haynes stated that the Planning Board had very specific items that were discussed: the
developer was accommodating in resolving these items; he questioned what would change in a
month’s time.
Mr. Kauderer stated that under the circumstances he believed that a delay of two weeks or one
month is unnecessary. He had come away from the first meeting and had been pleased at what
they had accomplished. He reiterated that this is a legal lot and what the role of the Planning
Board is.
Ms. Kendall stated that they need time to digest the plans and be able to establish property lines
themselves since they do not feel confident in the survey that was done.
Chairman Luntz stated the survey that was submitted is a legal document, and sealed by
someone who is licensed by the state. The Planning Board will rely on a licensed professional
who has prepared the survey.
Mr. Balter further requested a one-month delay. He pointed out that there are four houses
united on this; they do not want to take the Planning Board’s word for it and felt that the
proposed house was being “rammed down their throats.”
The neighbor, Mr. Barua, 64 Morningside Drive, called into the Zoom conference and stated that
the driveway goes in front of his property which he felt was inconsiderate, and that he was
concerned about the property lines indicated on the survey and wanted an independent survey
done. He confirmed that the ash tree (previously mentioned by Mr. Misiti) should be removed.
Ms. Kendall stated that she had ordered a survey of the four properties but it won’t come in for
three weeks. If there was a month’s delay, the survey would then be available.
Mr. Kauderer stated that this survey is a legal survey and that the property meets all the
requirements.

4

Mr. Balter stated that there are issues of the property lines and that if they have to they would
get a “cease and desist order”. If the Planning Board would give the neighbors that month, then
they would be reasonable.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board does not believe they are thrusting anything
upon the neighbors; that this has been a very thought-through process. A letter was presented
and the issues were addressed. The Planning Board is reviewing a project for compliance; the
Planning Board members are not advocating for the builders, and property owners have rights
and this is a legal lot to build upon even if it may not be what the neighbors want.
Chairman Luntz suggested that the board be polled as to how they wanted to proceed.
After a brief discussion, the Planning Board members agreed that the neighbors had the right to
hire an attorney and a surveyor, however it was time to make a decision.
Mr. Ghegan made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer and the
motion carried, all in favor by a vote of 5-0. (Roll call vote: Chairman Luntz AYE, Mr. Krisky
AYE, Mr. Kauderer AYE, Mr. Haynes, AYE, Mr. Ghegan AYE).
The Planning Board asked the Village Engineer if he had any reason to doubt the findings of the
survey, and the Village Engineer stated that TC Merritts did good work and that the survey
submitted was signed by the surveyor. It was pointed out that the deed matches the survey and
the property lines matched up.
The draft resolution was reviewed and amended with some added conditions (see attached).
There was again a brief discussion on whether or not to delay approval. The Planning Board
members again agreed that the survey is taken as a legal document and presumed to be
accurate and should not hold up the application process.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to accept the resolution with the discussed additional
changes, Mr. Krisky seconded, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0. (Roll call
vote: Chairman Luntz AYE, Mr. Kauderer AYE, Mr. Krisky AYE, Mr. Haynes AYE, and Mr.
Ghegan AYE).
c) 1360 Albany Post Road LLC-- 1360 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.10 Block 2 Lot 12)-Application for Amended Site plan approval for modifications to previously approved
garden center site plan.
Mr. Hernandez and Mr. Silva joined the Zoom meeting. As previously discussed at the last
meeting, the parking plan was changed to make 25 parking spaces available, with 8 extra
parking spaces. Samples of the wall and the stone and fence were shown. There will be
landscaping in front of the stone wall and trees behind the fence. The Planning Board
requested that the applicant provide a new rendering of what the wall would look like.

5

Chairman Luntz stated that he appreciates the change in parking, it will improve the whole site-the customers can go right into the building, the site lines of the building are improved and the
handicapped parking spots located right across from each other.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, Mr. Haynes seconded the motion, and the
motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0 (Roll Call vote: Chairman Luntz AYE, Mr. Kauderer
AYE, Mr. Krisky AYE, Mr. Haynes AYE, and Mr. Ghegan AYE).
The Planning Board requested that a rendering be submitted to include a tree plan and a clearer
visual of the entire stretch of the fence and the wall along Albany Post Road.
3. REFERRAL
d) Rossi, Ralph and Spagnoli, Philip--21-27 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.8 Block 5 Lots 42,
43, 59, 60)—Referral from the Village Board to review and make recommendation back to the
Village Board on the special permit application for 44-unit residential building.

Mr. Salamone, attorney for the applicants, stated that on September 8, 2020 the application for
a special permit was referred to the Planning Board for its review and recommendation back to
the Village Board. This is not a site plan application at this time. The applicant will be going to
the Zoning Board at its October 14, 2020 meeting.
He noted that this is an assemblage of 4 parcels with a steep slope behind it. The Village Board
had amended the zoning code and the property is now in the Riverside Transition C-1 R (B)
zoning district. The 54,000 sq. ft, 44 units is spread over three floors of which 10% is for
affordable housing. The parking is partially below grade (66 spaces), with a rooftop lounge,
coworking spaces, and terraces. The project is fully zoning compliant except for the Floor area
ratio (FAR) and they have proposed a .22 increase.
When asked to speak to the issue of landscaping and trees on the hill and how that would
change, Mr. Salamone responded that there are numerous retaining walls at the back of the
property. Currently to the south there is low cover brush. There is an old tree trimming
easement that allows the uphill neighbors to cut trees to see the river, and this area would be
covered with low brush. To the west, the trees are overgrown and have been topped off; the
plan is to plant new trees in the center of the property with no large trees in the front. They want
to maintain the perennial landscaped area.
Mr. Krisky stated that neighbors’ view shed into the building and beyond is one of the strongest
objections to the proposed building, He noted that the applicants needed to be cognizant of the
neighbors in the back. He suggested that the Planning Board might want to schedule a site visit
to the site so they should see the issues (both good and bad) by walking the parcel.
Mr. Salamone stated that the neighbors to the rear had chopped down a lot of trees so that they
had a panoramic view.

6

Mr. Kauderer agreed that it was important to handle objections of the neighbors. He noted that
the project is fully compliant except for FAR and he also noted that the maximum height is 35 ft.
maximum but the application stated 42 feet, and asked where the 35 feet was measured from?
Mr. Kauderer stated that there is a lot of opposition from the neighbors, so the applicant needed
to be very clear on what legal height is allowed.
The Village Engineer stated that they are still looking at that to make a determination and may
ask the ZBA for an interpretation on height.
Mr. Kauderer also asked if there is a reason that the parking could be below grade.
Mr. Rossi stated that it was both the cost and to limit the excavation. They wanted ventilation
and natural grade of the site. Mr. Salamone stated that there is 1.5 parking space for the
majority of the apartments (65% are one bedroom) and there would be 18 spots in front of the
building on the road. Mr. Kauderer stated he was concerned about parking on the street, a
traffic study should be done to determine how many visitors are expected on a certain day.
Planning Board members suggested that the applicant take a look at where people are going to
park.
Mr. Krisky added that the applicant needed to think about lighting, parking and landscaping. Mr.
Haynes also noted that the applicant needs to look at a more comprehensive and accurate
traffic study--what is the existing traffic in this location and what are typical trips to comparable
buildings, not compare traffic to a shopping center. Mr. Kauderer concurred with Mr. Haynes.
Mr. Krisky stated that it would be beneficial if a balloon test were done to see if the view shed is
impacted. He recommended that this be done in time for the site visit.
The Planning Board also agreed that it would be a good idea to have the Fire and Police
departments give their comments. The applicants stated that there is a water main right in front
of the property with good flow and good pressure. The building will have a sprinkler system and
fire alarm building code requirements which are mandatory.
The Planning Board, in reviewing the letter submitted by Mr. Liss, 8 Barton Place, asked how a
resident would be able to see into an apartment of the proposed building. The Planning Board
stated that the applicants should be prepared to demonstrate that this is not possible. In
addition, the applicants should be able to demonstrate that no one will see the roof deck and
that rules would exist regarding noise and hours.
The Planning Board also discussed the affordable housing requirement and whether the legally
required minimum four units was enough (the requirement for a 44-unit building).
The Planning Board also cited other issues to consider: electric charging for cars and
management of stormwater runoff into the basin of the Croton Yacht Club.
Chairman Luntz stated that if there was anyone who would like to comment, the Planning Board
would entertain two or three minutes.

7

Jonathan Liss, 8 Barton Place, stated that he wanted to address the comment that he could not
see into the building. He stated that if he looks out, with the removal of trees, he would look
down at dozens of the apartments. He already can see the first floor of the medical center. He
stated he was confused why some parts can be 42 feet high, plus the rooftop lounge. He stated
that he would look down into the second and third story and the rooftop development.
The Planning Board agreed that a site walk would take place, weather permitting, on
Wednesday, September 30, at 5:00 p.m. The Planning Board requested that a balloon test be
provided and pictures of balloon tests from different vantage points prior to the site visit.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of September 8, 2020, seconded by Mr.
Krisky, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:41p.m.

Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

8

