VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES FOR THE MEETING OF THE PLANNING BOARD FOR
TUESDAY, June 9, 2020
Zoom Video Conference
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
Steve Krisky

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Video Conference meeting to order at
7:08 p.m. The Municipal Building has been closed to the public due to public health
reasons during the Coronavirus pandemic.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) MM 2020 LLC -- 337 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 79.13 Block 1 Lots 61,62)-Application for Amended site Plan for proposed architectural improvements to the
exterior improvements to the front and side of the building (restaurant on first
floor).
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer,
and motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
Mr. Rocco DiLeo, architect, shared his responses to some of the concerns and questions that
had been raised at the previous Planning Board meeting:
● Removal of existing pylon sign is now shown on site plan,
● The flood light has been relocated,
● Submission of photograph of the parking lot in the evening which demonstrates
that the parking lot is well lit,
● Affirmed that the owner has every intention to have patio seating eventually for
as long as the weather allows outdoor dining,
● Revision of the site plan now shows two handicap parking spaces,
● The revised site plan now shows that the existing telephone wires have been
raised above the sign.
The Planning Board discussed outdoor seating and the possibility of creating some kind of
threshold between pedestrian traffic and the restaurant seating in order to soften the transition
from public to private space. The applicant and the Planning Board discussed the possibility of

using planters or planter boxes. Mr. DiLeo also mentioned that the island area as well as the
south property line would be landscaped.
The Planning Board agreed that the proposed plan would be a nice addition to the village and
well suited to this site.
The Village Engineer noted that the amended site plan can be approved with the condition that
the applicant returns to the Planning Board to show what their intentions are for outdoor
landscaping the patio area, the island and the south property line.
There being no one from the public to comment on the application, the public hearing was
closed by a motion by Mr. Kauderer, seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried all in
favor by a vote of 5-0.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the resolution with the additional condition
that states that the applicant will return to the Planning Board for the approval of landscaping
and/or furniture treatment on the island where the pylon sign is to be removed, and the former
curb cut where there is a separation from curb cut and patio. Mr. Krisky seconded the motion,
and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0 (Roll call: Chairman Luntz, yes, Mr. Ghegan, yes, Mr.
Haynes, yes, Mr. Kauderer, yes, Mr. Krisky, yes)
b) 34 Brook Street LLC-- 34 Brook Street (Sec.78.08 Block 5 Lots 31,32) -Application for amended site plan approval and wetlands permit for proposed
residential apartment building (six apartments).
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and
the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
The Planning Board reviewed some of the items that had been revised on the site plan since the
last meeting, and agreed that the color submitted for the exterior of the building was acceptable.
The Planning Board had no further comments and referred the application to the Water Control
Commission for their review and recommendation of a wetlands permit (some disturbance in the
watercourse buffer area near the trash area).
There were no comments from the public on this application, however it was agreed to keep the
public hearing open until the comments were received by the Water Control Commission.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to refer the application to the Water Control
Commission, seconded by Mr. Krisky and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0. (Roll
call: Mr. Kauderer, yes, Mr. Krisky, Mr. Ghegan, yes, Mr. Haynes, yes and Chairman Luntz, yes)

2

3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Gilday, Kerri and Fenger, Hilmar-- 40 Prospect Place (SBL) -- Application for
minor site plan approval and referral to the Water Control Commission (for
disturbance near a waterbody/watercourse buffer zone).
Mr. Spade, architect, and Ms. Gilday and Mr. Fenger, homeowners, joined in the Zoom video
conference meeting.
Mr. Spade explained that Ms. Gilday and Mr. Fenger are the owners of the entire building, but
live in the third unit. The homeowners are applying for minor site plan approval for a proposed
addition to their unit primarily to serve their teenage daughter who has a medical condition and
struggles with stairs and requires a service dog. The homeowners would like to construct a
family room to provide more space for their family of five (the unit is 1600 sq. feet), a ramp to
get to the first-floor level as well as create a bedroom and handicapped accessible bathroom on
the ground floor as part of the project.
Mr. Spade stated that the proposed additions are within the zoning limitations in terms of
building coverage but because there is a pond below the building, a wetlands permit will also be
required. The proposed structure will be on piers to limit the disturbance.
Mr. Spade explained that the original approval of the three-unit cluster building had restricted
building any additions without going to the Village Board for relief from the deed restriction. After
the Planning Board makes its decision about the minor site plan, and the Water Control
Commission makes its recommendation on the wetlands permit, the application will be referred
back to the Village Board for relief from this deed restriction.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to refer to the Water Control Commission, seconded by
Mr. Haynes and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor (Roll call: Chairman Luntz: aye,
Mr. Kauderer: aye, Mr. Haynes: aye, Mr. Krisky: aye, Mr. Ghegan: aye)
The Planning Board will receive the recommendation from the Water Control Commission and
then proceed to issue Minor Site Plan approval. After issuance of minor site plan approval, the
Planning Board will refer the application back to the Village Board for relief from the deed
restriction.
4. OLD BUSINESS
a) Half Moon Bay Promenade--Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association -Application for Wetlands Permit for Half Moon Bay Promenade and Revetment
Repair.
The Planning Board discussed whether or not to make a referral at this time to the WCC and
WAC prior to receiving the final opinion from the Village Attorney.

3

Mr. Kauderer expressed disappointment that the Village Attorney had not yet returned an
opinion, however, he also stated that he believed it was irrelevant whether or not the
Homeowners Association of Half Moon Bay required a vote on the change from field stones to
asphalt on the promenade. Mr. Kauderer asserted that the Village was not subject to their
bylaws and as they are before the Planning Board, they will have to be subject to the Planning
Board conditions made.
Mr. Kauderer also stated that time and experience has shown that the Planning Board who had
approved the field stones on the portion of the promenade had made a serious mistake allowing
the field stones, and that he believed that the Planning Board now has an opportunity to correct
this. The Planning Board members unanimously agreed that the field stones were not in
keeping with the easement, that the pavement should be asphalt and smooth so as to avoid
injuries, that there were questions about whether this portion of the promenade was ADA
compliant, and also that the field stones were not easily maintained.
Chairman Luntz noted that although this was not a public hearing, any members of the public
who wished to speak were invited to do so at this time.
Ms. Terri Weiss stated that she appreciated being able to talk at the meeting and that she
knows this promenade very well since she is both in a wheelchair and also has a service dog.
She stated that she believes the field stones are in violation of the ADA since this park trail is
open to the public. She believes that this part of the walkway is hostile to village users,
particularly a disabled person. Her power wheelchair cannot go over the stones. It is her belief
that there are no options but to make this accessible to everyone including the disabled. Ms.
Weiss also expressed frustration with the latched gate which is difficult to negotiate.
Rob Olsson stated that he is a long-time Bicycle/Pedestrian Committee member and echoes
what Ms. Weiss had to say. He also stated that the stones make the path impossible to
navigate in any capacity and should be done in an ADA compliant way.
Joe Biber stated he had been involved with the BPC as well and had been struck at how the
public easement had been privatized. He believes that this link to afford public access to the
water is not handicapped accessible.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board received a statement from Doug and Ariele
Wherle and this letter will be entered into the minutes (see attached).
After a discussion, the Planning Board agreed that they would like to see guidance from the
Village Attorney prior to referring the application for a Wetlands permit to the Water Control
Commission and the Waterfront Advisory Committee. The Village Engineer will follow up with
the Village Attorney to seek the status of her opinion.

4

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of May 26, 2020, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Krisky and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0. Rob
abstained
Roll call: (Mr. Krisky: aye Mr. Ghegan: aye, Mr. Haynes: aye, Mr. Kauderer: aye,
Chairman Luntz abstained because he did not attend the meeting of May 26, 2020).
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

