THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
ON TUESDAY, JULY 28, 2020
Present:

Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan

Absent:
Mr. Krisky
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board of Trustees Liaison
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference July 28, 2020 to order
at 7:04 p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) 1360 Albany Post Road Corp--1360 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.10 Block 2 Lot 12)
Application for Amended Site plan approval for modifications to previously approved
garden center site plan.
The Village Engineer stated that he spoke with the applicant’s architect, Mr. Hernandez is
reviewing the discussions of the Planning Board with the client. Mr. Hernandez stated he would
like to meet with the Village Engineer and Assistant Village Engineer about the site plan and
then they will make a decision on how to proceed.
There being no public comment, the public hearing will be continued at the next meeting.
b) Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association—Half Moon Bay Condominiums --–
Application for Wetlands Permit for proposed Riverwalk and Revetment Stabilization
plan.
Chairman Luntz noted that the Planning Board had received correspondence from the public. Mr.
Schuyler’s letter, dated7/27/2020 and correspondence from members of the BPC received July
28, 2020 were read into the minutes.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that there was nothing new to add to the application at this point.

The Planning Board members agreed that if asphalt was not an acceptable choice of the HOA,
the Planning Board would be open to other surfaces; they were not advocating any one particular
surface substance, but the Planning Board believed that the pathway had to provide accessibility,
be a smooth surface, and provide walkability to disabled persons or anyone navigating the
pathway.
The Planning Board, as Lead Agency for the review of the Wetlands Permit, proceeded to review
the EAF, the criteria for determination of significance, and other supporting information.
In a review of the Environmental Assessment Form, the Planning Board made some changes to
items #1 (add 2/10 of an acre as amount of disturbance),#s: 9, 10, 11 (should be N/A, not yes)
#13 (add “Hudson River”), #19 (if yes say something about hazardous waste and that the
County landfill has been capped, monitored and managed), and #20 (note hazardous waste on
Metro North property has been remediated and the DEC is monitoring cleanup and closure on
that site).
The Planning Board reviewed the criteria for determination of significance for the Unlisted
Action. The Planning Board stated that in reviewing these criteria, it is assumed that Best
Practices will be used.
i) If best practices are used, there should not be a significant adverse impact.
ii) If best Practices are used, there should not be a significant adverse impact
iii) If best Practices are used, there should not be a significant adverse impact
iv) The Planning Board agreed that the use of the existing field stones created a conflict in how
the walkway is to be rebuilt. The Planning Board noted that the use of existing field stones, an
uneven and unsafe walkway, creates a conflict with a community’s current plans or goals as
officially approved or adopted (i.e. the Comprehensive Plan) which includes the goal of
providing access to the river, and making riverwalk connections along the river.
It was determined that if best practices are used, there should not be a significant adverse impact
for criteria v-xii.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board did not believe that they needed to take the
review to the level of an Environmental Impact Statement provided that the applicant follows the
Planning Board’s requirement for reconstructing the walkway. The Planning Board agreed that
the resolution can include the requirement of accessibility in the Wetlands Permit resolution.

2

The Planning Board reviewed the memo from the WAC, and agreed with the WAC that the
recommended policies were applicable and consistent, and the Planning Board noted that it
accurately reflected what the Planning Board had discussed.
The Planning Board reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form, and noted that some of the WAC
recommendations for further elaboration had been completed. The Planning Board
recommended that the applicant elaborate further on some of the items that were checked off as
“yes.” Mr. Mastromonaco agreed to follow up.
Chairman Luntz stated that the overarching theme of the review is that the Planning Board would
like to see the path restored so it has a smooth surface and can be traversed safely by the public,
including those persons with disabilities.
A resolution will be drafted by staff based on the Planning Board’s findings and then reviewed
by the Planning Board.
Mr. Kauderer asked if it would be necessary to have a Conditional Negative Declaration and the
Village Engineer stated that he would ask the Village Attorney.
A public hearing has been scheduled for August 11, 2020.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that everyone agreed that the revetment should be repaired and
wondered if it was possible to split the project into two parts—the revetment repair and the path
as a separate item.
Mr. Kauderer stated that he did not think this was a good idea; the Planning Board all agreed that
the revetment needed to be repaired, however they also agreed that this is one project, and
therefore one approval.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that the HOA had hoped to do the revetment without causing any
delay and if this is considered to be one project, the path should be as originally designed. It was
never supposed to be ADA accessible.
Mr. Kauderer stated that from his reading of the minutes, the original Planning Board had
approved, not required, field stones, and that after time and experience it is clear that the
Planning Board made a mistake and that this now can be corrected for the benefit of everyone in
the village.
Mr. Schuyler requested, and was given permission to speak to his submitted letter. He stated that
there are a number of residents who will oppose any attempt to have the riverwalk paved and that
3

the portion of revetment is a small portion of the riverwalk stretch. They would like to go
forward with the revetment repair and don’t want half of the shore washing away because the
revetment is not repaired.
Mr. Haynes, referencing the letter submitted, asked how a paved path impacted property values?
Mr. Schuyler stated that the original path in Discovery Cove was differentiated from the path in
front of Half Moon Bay; that the buildings in Discovery Cove are right on the river and this
portion of the path is their front yard. The stone was meant to match the revetment and the stone
walls. He stated that the residents are adamant that they would fight against any paved sidewalk
to be placed here. He stated that as of right, they could replace those stones right now as they
don’t need a building permit to fix the walkway.
The Planning Board agreed that no further action would be taken on this application tonight, a
public hearing would be scheduled for August 11, and the board would review any updates at
that time. They would like the applicant to look at alternative surfaces.
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to schedule a public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the
motion carried all in favor.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the minutes of July 14, 2020, as amended, seconded by
Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor, by a vote of 4-0.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:30
p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

4

