THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, October 13, 2020
Zoom Video Conference
Present: Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan
Mr. Krisky
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference of Tuesday, October
13, 2020 at 7:00p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19
pandemic.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) 1360 Albany Post Road LLC-- 1360 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.10 Block 2 Lot 12) -Application for Amended Site plan approval for modifications to previously approved
garden center site plan.
Mr. Hernandez, architect, and Mr. Silva, applicant, explained the revised drawing for the parking
area and the rendering of a section of the stone retaining wall with the type of fencing to go on
the stone wall. The gravel parking will have granite curbing near the parking spaces. The
handicapped parking will be asphalt. The Planning Board were satisfied with the parking lot area
details.
Chairman Luntz stated that there is now a potential necessity for a variance for the canopy
because, upon a closer analysis, the 20 feet of canopy encroached on NYSDOT land.
Therefore, the applicant cannot continue with construction of the canopies until obtaining a
variance from the ZBA. If the ZBA does not grant the variance, the applicant would need a
different design and would have to return to the Planning Board (for the canopies).
Mr. Krisky stated that he did not know how the Planning Board could give approval with such a
major variance to obtain. He stated that the canopies were a major piece of the site plan.
Chairman Luntz suggested that the Planning Board could move forward with a resolution that
includes a clause which includes site plan approval contingent upon obtaining the ZBA variance.
The Planning Board had been satisfied with the canopy design prior to discovering the
technicality that it didn’t meet the rear yard setback.
When asked about the status of the construction at the site, the Village Engineer stated that site
plan approval had been issued a while back for the building and open veranda and the building
permit was issued for building based on original site plan) although not for the enclosed veranda
and canopies). Therefore, the applicant can continue with the building and the veranda and

parking area. Chairman Luntz and Mr. Kauderer both agreed that if the applicant does not get
the variance, they can go to the state to purchase the land, but there is no risk to the Planning
Board in issuing approval for the building and parking lot without the canopy. Mr. Haynes also
agreed that he would be okay with approval contingent on the variance being approved.
The Planning Board then discussed the fence on top of the stone wall. Mr. Krisky stated that he
was not pleased with the fencing as proposed because from his point of view it was visually
unattractive.
There was a discussion about why the fence was added to the top of the stone wall instead of
an all-stone wall. Mr. Hernandez explained that it was for security reasons and also that the
NYSDOT had suggested a wood fence and they did not want wood. The Planning Board agreed
that it was difficult to evaluate given the current rendering. The Planning Board requested that
the applicant submit a true rendering with fencing, stone wall and stone pillars shown across the
site. The Planning Board stated they wanted to see the trees, the canopy and the building as
well in order to see the expansive view of what was being proposed.
The Planning Board also noted that the catch basins will need to be relocated with the revised
parking lot design and the Planning Board agreed the applicant can work with the Village
Engineer on this and did not need to return to the Planning Board for this. As part of the
approval of the resolution, the applicant will return to the Planning Board for final approval for
the wall/fence along Albany Post Road and the applicant shall submit for the board's review a
rendering of the front of the property prior to the next scheduled Planning Board meeting on
October 27, 2020.
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to accept the resolution, as amended, seconded by Mr. Haynes.
The motion carried by a vote of 4 in favor, and 1 dissent. Chairman Luntz AYE, Mr. Kauderer
AYE, Mr. Haynes AYE, Mr. Ghegan AYE, Mr. Krisky NAY (Mr. Krisky stated that he had
concerns about the fence which was a major component of the project so his vote is no).
3. REFERRAL
a) Rossi, Ralph and Spagnoli, Philip--21-27 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.8 Block 5 Lots 42,
43, 59, 60)—Referral from the Village Board to review and make recommendation back to the
Village Board on the special permit application for 44-unit residential building.

PRESENT: Mr. Kory Salomone, attorney, and Phil Spagnoli and Ralph Rossi, applicants
Mr. Salomone thanked the PB for the opportunity to have a site walk. He explained that the
proposed site consists of four properties for a total of 1.2 acres. The original proposal was for a
54,000 sq. ft. building and they had originally been going to make an application for an
increased FAR variance or if not granted, for a possible waiver of the FAR with additional
affordable units. The applicants originally planned to make an application to the ZBA, but after
discussion with staff and the Village Board, the applicants withdrew their request and reduced
the building size to 42,000 sq. ft and the number of units from 44 to 39 units. There will be 60
parking spaces, with 47 of them beneath the building. The vacant lot, where originally more
2

units were proposed, would now be for exterior parking (13 spaces). Where there had been all
apartments in front, now there were apartments in the front and in the back. All impacts are
therefore reduced because the building is smaller.
Chairman Luntz noted that the building is significantly deeper into the property than what had
been proposed before and that the retaining wall would then be approximately 30 feet tall. He
noted that a drawing will be necessary to show the rear back of the property since the rear
apartments are going to be looking at this 30 ft. retaining wall.
Mr. Kauderer stated that he liked the outdoor parking area where guests could park and
therefore provides a dedicated parking area beneath the building for the tenants.
Mr. Kauderer also stated that the Planning Board needs to know that the building is within the
35 feet height limitation, as per code.
Mr. Rossi stated that according to village code, they calculated the maximum height based on
the average grade of the site. The building is designed at the existing elevation of where the first
floor of the current building sits (grade is 23 ft); the first floor is set at 26.5 ft, and maximum
height is at 28 ft as shown by the balloon height test demonstrated at the site visit.
Mr. Kauderer added that he believed the traffic study was misleading—that it shows a lot of trips
being made which reflects a standard office building, not a residential building. He did not think
that there would be as many trips by tenants in and out of the building.
Mr. Carlito Holt of Provident Engineering, and who prepared the study, stated that it is standard
engineering practice to suggest these numbers even if a building is unoccupied. However, he is
happy to change it.
Mr. Haynes asked about stormwater runoff and Mr. Rossi stated that the stormwater runoff will
be captured and there is stormwater retention throughout the site. There will be planting and
shrubbery on the hillside to stabilize the hillside which will improve the badly eroding hillside that
currently exists.
Mr. Kauderer asked about the existing tree easement and recommended that the easement be
read carefully when constructing the retaining wall there. Mr. Salomone stated that the
neighbors have the right to trim the trees and they would in fact review the easement carefully
for accuracy.
Mr. Krisky asked that the applicants speak to the neighbors’ concerns about site lines and
landscaping.
Mr. Rossi stated that they want to plant trees to obscure the view of the roof from the Barton
Place view. They want to work with the neighbors and obtained their email and phone numbers.
With the retaining walls on the back of the property, nobody should be able to look into
apartments. No lighting should shine into someone's home. He noted that they are not allowing
any parties on the roof. There will be additional soundproofing in front of the building.
3

When asked about how the redesign affects the neighbors up above and their view shed, Mr.
Rossi stated that the major effect is in the back because the building has been pushed back and
the retaining wall has been added. From the view from the top, the roof is not any higher than
was before, so the retaining wall is not any higher than what was there before. Chairman Luntz
noted that the height of the retaining wall was more of an issue for the tenants than the
neighbors above.
Because there were many questions raised from residents in the zoom “waiting room”, the
applicants were asked to address these questions.
●

The hill behind the structure: There will be masonry retaining walls to stabilize the
hillside that will be much sturdier than what is there currently (wooden).

●

The rooftop lounge: This is the only outdoor space available to this building; the house
rules will require that there be no parties, DJ’s or bands allowed and access to the roof
top ends at 9:00 p.m. The applicants stated they also want to protect their tenants from
loud noise but are happy to have this included as a condition in the special permit or site
plan approvals.

●

Infringement on Critical Environmental Area: This is not a CEA and there is no impact.

●

Height of the building: The building is 3 stories and the height of the building measured,
from average grade is in compliance with the 35 ft. Height requirement. Chairman Luntz
noted that elevators and stairs are exempt from height restrictions. Chairman Luntz and
the Village Engineer agreed that the height was within the code requirements.

●

Light pollution: There will not be lights in the back and there will be screening.

The Planning Board reviewed the five goals and objectives as stipulated in Section 230-58 of
the zoning code:
1. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The Planning Board had discussed that there is a firehouse down the road and that
there is police protection. Although they did not foresee an issue, the board recommends
that the applicant consult with the police and fire departments.
2. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent
properties in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
Mr. Krisky noted that this is an underutilized part of the village and he believes it is an
excellent use, one which will enhance the quality of life in the village. Mr. Haynes asked
about the timing of these four lots becoming a single site, and the Village Engineer
stated that as part of the process there will be a consolidation subdivision merging all the
parcels together for one tax property. One of the conditions of site plan approval will be a
consolidation subdivision (which the Planning Board approves).

4

3. The safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of
the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular
account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved
in or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The Planning Board recommended that the traffic study be updated to show that the
existing building will generate less traffic than what is shown on the study. Mr. Ghegan
added that the proximity to the highway exits was also advantageous.
4. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height
of walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent
land and buildings and their appropriate development.
The Planning Board recommended that the applicant submit a detailed cross section
which shows views from the street, through the building, all the way up the hill to where
the neighbors are. The Planning Board would like to understand more fully the retaining
walls, their height and location prior to making a recommendation. The Planning Board
would also like to be able to see a rendering of the retaining walls given there is a 30 ft
retaining wall proposed in the parking lot area. This parking area is very visible from the
street.
5. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board discussed the stormwater runoff and filtration at the site. The Village
Engineer stated that there will be a new piping system that will be connected to the
NYSDOT system. Any runoff during construction will be addressed and treated. The
retaining walls will provide better hillside retention. The Planning Board did not see any
issues affecting the environment.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board would like to have a better idea of the cross
sections and therefore the applicant should fully illustrate the proposal as to how it fits into the
land from the street to parcels above at varying points. He noted that he believed the revised
project is an improvement and the proposed building is less massive. At the next meeting, the
Planning Board will review the EAF and CAF.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of September 22, 2020,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9
p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

