THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020
Present:

Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan
Mr. Krisky

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board of Trustees Liaison
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference August 11, 2020 to
order at 7:03 p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19
pandemic.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association—Half Moon Bay Condominiums --– Application for
Wetlands Permit for proposed Riverwalk and Revetment Stabilization plan.

Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer and the motion
carried by a vote of 5-0.
Mr. Kauderer stated that the board had received a copy of Mr. Schuyler’s letter and noted that
the photograph included in this letter sheds light on the salient facts of the dispute. First, it was
clear from the photo that no disabled person, no persons with strollers, no runners, no walkers,
could traverse this path on those stones. The argument by homeowners that this has been
done for aesthetics purposes belies that argument as few homeowners can see that walk since
there is a wall and a hedge. Mr. Kauderer stated that this was not just about aesthetics for
these homeowners, rather they do not want anyone to walk on the path and the field stones are
the most effective way to discourage use.
Mr. Kauderer asked that the letter dated January 29, 1999 from Bob Davis, attorney for HMB,
be read into the minutes (copy on file). Mr. Kauderer noted that discouraging use of the path
does not override the express goals of the easement or ADA law, nor does the asphalt path in
front of phases one and two homes seem to have an adverse effect on homeowners or the
value of their homes.
Finally, Mr. Kauderer questioned whether another surface that is smooth and accessible has
been considered and could be explored.
Chairman Luntz opened the meeting for public comment.

Mr. Ed Doherty, 811 HMB Drive, stated that he was seeking to repair the revetment that was
damaged by the contractor, and that this instability of the revetment threatens the integrity of the
buildings along the river. He stated that the contractor had pulled rocks out of water and by
doing so reshaped the contour of the revetment wall, a violation of the DEC. He stated that he
did not believe the plans submitted by Mr. Mastromonaco showed the extent of necessary
repairs. Mr. Doherty stated that it was his opinion that there needed to be a special permit from
the Army Corps of Engineers and both the Army Corps of Engineers and the DEC needed to be
involved to oversee the repair.
Mr. Mastromonaco responded that they had contacted the DEC and Army Corps of Engineers,
and that the scope of the repair was limited to that area which had been touched by the recent
contractor. He agreed that if one wanted a fully repaired and well-designed revetment, one
would require more stone and more permits, but that the HOA was only doing repair to fix what
was damaged in limited areas. He also noted that the plans submitted showed tide levels which
were presented to the DEC.
Mr. Doherty disagreed and stated it isn’t a cosmetic repair but a structural repair and that he and
other homeowners wanted it fully repaired, the full 575 feet, not the 500 ft. stated on the
application.
Ms. Terri Weiss, 4 Georgia Lane, stated that she has lived in the village since 1986 and
remembers when HMB was built. She was diagnosed with MS in 1997 and has been
wheelchair bound since 2000. She stated she is almost a daily visitor to the river since it is
important as a disabled person to be exposed outdoors as much as possible, both for physical
and mental health. She never had the opportunity to traverse the whole HMB property, the
flagstones never permitted her to do so. As a result, she goes as far as the asphalt takes her in
her wheelchair and with her service dog. She asked that there be consideration for other
disabled residents with mobility impairments, as well as walkers, runners, persons with strollers.
She stated that she could not imagine the heartlessness in thinking that this kind of pavement
(field stones) is legal when it is not.
Joe Biber, 204 Cleveland Drive, a 21-year village resident, urban planner, former chair of
Bike/Ped Committee and member of the Conservation Advisory Committee, stated that this is
the first opportunity that the village has to legally compel the change of the path’s surface as
opposed to only recommending and encouraging the change.
He stated that over the years with the poor signage, the broken locks and gates, and the steep
steps, it has seemed intentional on the part of the HOA to discourage public access to the path.
He stated that the stone paving is impossible to use with a wheelchair and clearly out of
compliance with ADA law. In a conversation years ago with a long time Planning Board
member, Ms. Allen, it had been suggested that the Planning Board did not understand the
implications of the materials used for the promenade. Mr. Biber stated that the current
Planning Board has a legal responsibility to correct the lack of ADA compliance that a previous

2

Planning Board had overlooked and he encouraged the current Planning board to correct this
past error.
Liz Colabella, 1007 HMB, stated that she is currently not living at her home at Half Moon Bay
since a fire occurred but she has watched the revetment slowly disappear, and it had not been
in good shape when she had initially moved in May 2019. She stated that it makes a lot of
sense to discuss accessibility, but she would like the primary focus to be on the revetment
repair and then to proceed with the cosmetic repair of the pathway.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board recognizes that the revetment is crucial in terms
of repair and that the Planning Board believes that the promenade repair is part of the issue and
plan being proposed.
Mr. Peter Schuyler, attorney, reiterated that he was appearing on behalf of his client, Maria
DiBella at 713 HMB, to oppose the paving of the Riverwalk. He suggested that the board
should split its decision to repair the revetment and the walkway; that the repair should not be
held up as a quid pro quo. He emphasized that he does not represent the HOA, nor phase 3
homeowners, but he had been retained by several residents to express their opinions in front of
the board. He stated that he reviewed the records, and it is his conclusion that the Planning
Board did not make a mistake, had understood that the pathway would not be handicap
accessible, had debated the issue of the stone walk and ultimately required that the field stones
be installed.
He furthermore suggested that his clients intended to fight the paving of the pathway and they
would like to see it restored to its prior and original construction. When asked about the
residents’ concern about decreased property values, Mr. Schuyler stated that whether it
negatively impacts the property values or not, these residents wanted to keep the same
conditions and were willing to go to court to pursue this course.
Mr. Kauderer responded that this portion of the walkway is covered by the easement, and if the
Planning Board deliberately put in stones knowing it was inaccessible then it was a mistake, and
was against the law.
Mr. Sean Dugan, 1006 HMB, stated his building is at the southernmost part of property and
there is no berm, no wall, and no hedge between their back door and the Riverwalk. He would
like to refocus the discussion on the major issue which is erosion of the revetment.
He stated that prior to the house fires last August, the Riverwalk was already falling into the
river, and dangerous to walk behind 1007 and 1006. He is shocked at the continued erosion
that is occurring; the revetment has to be repaired immediately--the riprap has to be added to
stop this erosion which is approaching their houses. He emphasized that that the driving force of
this discussion should be about the erosion and repairing the revetment. He stated that in
reference to the path itself, he and his neighbors in Building 10, have absolutely no objection to
reasonable public use; no one in building 10 is complaining about public use and he made it
clear that Mr. Schuyler does not represent the interests of anyone in building 10.
3

Lynn Harmonay, a resident in building 6 HMB, stated that the village had required HMB to put
field stones there and that the village did not want the liability to have the walkway near the
river. She stated that the goal and the intention was to have the bike trail provide access. She
believes that the biggest issue is the repair of revetment and this must be repaired urgently
before there is another storm.
Mr. Domingo Ramirez, property manager of Half Moon Bay, stated that when the board made
the decision to repair the riverwalk, the goal had been to place the rocks closer together so that
the path was more walkable.
Mr. James Reidy, resident of 1003 HMB, stated that there was severe erosion of village
revetment, and the primary reason for the discussion is that both the path and the revetment are
deteriorating. He stated that the revetment repair is an urgent situation; stopping the erosion is
the biggest problem.
Mr. Brian Plotkin, HMB Resident, agreed that the revetment repair is crucial especially with the
potential of more hurricanes this season. He stated that the Riverwalk path is not part of a trail
system.
Chairman Luntz, stated that he would leave the public hearing open, since some residents may
still be experiencing internet challenges. The application would be taken up at the next meeting
and there may be additional input from Mr. Schuyler and Mr. Mastromonaco.
Mr. Kauderer stated that the Planning Board wants to see the revetment repaired and
recognizes the urgency to fix the revetment; at the same time, they want to see the pathway in
compliance with the easement agreement and the ADA.
Chairman Luntz concurred, along with the other Planning Board members, and stated that the
Planning Board understood that erosion is a serious problem, but that they needed to take the
application as a whole and deal with it as such.
3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Berger, Michael and Simone--1210 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.19 Block 1 Lot 4) -Application for Final Subdivision approval for two-lot subdivision.
The Village Engineer noted that condition #7 in the final subdivision resolution addressed a
change in condition #3 of the preliminary subdivision approval regarding the survey markers.
The final subdivision resolution requires that the monuments denoting the property lines be
addressed during the Minor Site Plan approval process and be required to be installed on the
property prior to a Certificate of Occupancy being issued. A lot of grading at the site is going on
and the monuments would be destroyed if installed now.

4

Also noted in the final subdivision resolution is the requirement that the driveway utility
agreement be reviewed by the Village Attorney and Village Engineer and that this agreement be
submitted to the Chairman prior to his signing the plat.
There being no further comments on the application from the Planning Board members, Mr.
Kauderer made a motion to approve the final subdivision resolution, with condition #7 changed
to reflect the survey markers installation as discussed, and the driveway utility agreement being
submitted, seconded by Mr. Krisky and the motion carried all in favor (by roll call) 5-0.
b) Fallacaro, Thomas -- 3 Arrowcrest (Sec. 67.15 Block 1 Lot 33) --Application for
modification of building envelope for existing fenced patio in the swimming pool area.
Chairman Luntz noted that this application is for a modification of the building envelope for a
small portion of the patio which is in the conservation easement. After a brief discussion on the
background of this property (which the Planning Board has reviewed for the past 10 years), the
Planning Board acknowledged the agreement that had finally been negotiated between the
Village Board, the Village Manager, and the applicant regarding the Mr. Fallacaro’s
encroachment of the easement. The majority of the Planning Board agreed that the only way
for Mr. Fallacaro to get a building permit for the retaining wall, was to have the modification of
the building envelope approved by the Planning Board. The Village Engineer stated that he
would work with the Village Attorney on the appropriate wording on the permits.
Mr. Ghegan made a motion to approve the modification of the building envelope, seconded by
Chairman Luntz, and the motion carried by a vote of 4, in favor, and one against (Mr. Krisky).
4. NON-AGENDA ITEMS
●

●

●

The Planning Board noted that the public hearing for 1360 Albany Post Road will be
adjourned to the next meeting. It was agreed that a site visit will be beneficial if the
applicant provides a wooden mockup of each of his proposals so that the board
members can visualize what the applicant is proposing. Staff will set up a site visit for
Wednesday, August 19, 2020 at 6 p.m. at the site.
The Planning Board agreed that staff should set up an Advice of Counsel meeting with
the Village Attorney regarding the resolution for the wetlands permit for the Half Moon
Bay Promenade and Revetment Repair. Staff will try to set up a meeting for Thursday,
August 20, 2020 at 4 p.m. The Planning Board also agreed that it would be beneficial to
get a resolution from the Homeowners Association Board that they are satisfied with the
proposed repair that is designed by their engineer, Mr. Mastromonaco, P.E. It would
also be helpful for the Planning Board to review the CAF and the EAF again for
completeness.
The Planning Board shared a moment of remembrance for Fran Allen, a long-time
Village of Croton resident and a former Planning Board member who recently passed
away. The Planning Board spoke of her devotion and contributions to the village and
her life work as a great computer scientist.
5

5. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The minutes of July 28, 2020 will be reviewed at the next meeting on Tuesday, August 25,
2020.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 9 :00
p.m.

Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

6

