THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, October 27 2020
Zoom Video Conference
Present: Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan
Mr. Krisky
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference of Tuesday, October 27, 2020 at
7:00p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19 pandemic
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Napolitani, Ronald (contract vendee) -- 43 North Riverside Avenue (Section
78.08 Block 2 Lot 79) -- Application for Change of Use from a retail use to a food
services restaurant use and to waive off-street parking requirements.
Ms. Julie Evans, architect on behalf of the applicant, explained that the idea is to take over both
spaces (The Tavern on the Landing is next door) to accommodate more customers since there
is a lot of pressure for space during the pandemic. The former retail space used to be a deli so
there exists a walk-in fridge, compact kitchen which the applicant anticipates using as a
warming kitchen.
During the Phase 4 COVID-19 mandate, there are limitations on the indoor seating. The
proposed expansion could provide 6 tables, which on a weekend night could make a difference
for the survival of the restaurant. The idea is to survive now, and thrive when things open up.
The Planning Board discussed accessibility access for wheelchairs (a ramp on the side) and
utilizing the rear of the building in order to get food from one building to the next.
The Planning Board agreed that this appeared to be a good use of space. The Planning Board
noted that they were familiar with the parking pressures in this area. The members agreed that
customers can park a couple of blocks away on North Riverside, or park by the river near
Croton Landing or the Croton Yacht Club and walk across the pedestrian bridge. The speed of
vehicles on North Riverside Avenue is in the purview of the NYSDOT.
The Planning Board, having the authority to waive off-street parking in this area, agreed to
waive the 12 normally required off-street parking spaces.
The Planning Board members asked about the intention to use the rear backyard. Mr.
Napolitani stated that it is his intention to improve the whole property including the outside. The
Planning Board stated that when the applicant has a plan for the use of the patio in the rear of
the building for outdoor seating, he is to return to the Planning Board to discuss.

Mr. Napolitani stated that the front of the building will be made to look like a duplicate of the
Tavern next door. Ms. Evans stated that the existing windows are staying the same, and except
for the signage, there will be only small items such as replacing the door and painting the
building.
Mr. Napolitani stated that it is his hope that the Liquor Authority would include this space as an
expansion of the Tavern so he wouldn't have to apply for a second license, but he will do
whatever has to be done just as he adheres to whatever Westchester County Department of
Health requires.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to grant the Change of Use permit and waive the 12
parking spaces required, with the additional condition that if the applicant renovates or changes
the outdoors area in the rear yard, he is to return to the Planning Board to discuss the plans.
Signage will go to the VEB and then back to the Planning Board for final approval. Mr.
Kauderer seconded the motion, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0 (Roll call vote: Chairman
Luntz AYE, Mr. Kauderer AYE, Mr. Haynes AYE, Mr. Krisky AYE, and Mr. Ghegan AYE)
b) 2 Birch Court LLC -- 2 Birch Court (Se. 67.20 Block 3 Lot 35.10)-- Application for
minor site plan approval for construction of new house on existing foundation.
Present: Barnard Doran (owner), Tim Cronin, P.E., and Ally Dannunzio (Cronin Engineering)
The Village Engineer explained that in August 2019 the previous house was fire-damaged and
had to be demolished immediately after the fire.
Mr. Cronin stated that the proposed plan is for a 3400 sq. ft. single-family residence on a 1-acre
lot which will utilize part of the foundation that remained from the fire. The other part of the
foundation will be replaced with grass. There is a proposed deck and new walkway to the front,
the existing driveway is being extended and two stormwater chambers will be installed to catch
runoff from the house. A total of 7 trees are being removed--some were damaged by the fire,
some are a little too close to the house. There will be a landscape plan and erosion control
measures with silt fencing around the disturbance. The proposed house is part of a cluster
development; the setbacks will be updated to reflect this cluster subdivision. The new house
conforms to the setbacks except for a very small piece of the porch which cuts across the
building envelope. The Planning Board has the authority to expand the building envelope to
allow this sliver of the porch.
When asked further about the tree removal, Mr. Doran stated that this is a heavily wooded lot
and he was hoping that some grass could grow there since the previous house had no grass.
The front of the house will be landscaped, with a beech tree by the front steps and a weeping
cherry tree as well. He stated that the left-hand side of the proposed house is the best place for
additional trees to be planted due to the topography of the site. The Planning Board agreed that
this seemed the best location for three additional trees to be planted.
There is existing water, sewer and gas utilities already in place.
Mr. Doran stated that he believes the house will fit in with the neighborhood, it is a colonial with
some modern finishes and not as large as the previous house. He explained that the house will

2

be primarily white and black. The Planning Board asked about whether the house could have
solar, and Mr. Doaran said that it could if desired.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minor site plan with two additional
conditions: 1) that, three additional hardwood 2.5” caliper trees to be added to the site plan as
discussed, and 2) that, the house be made solar ready should the homeowner want to add solar
panels. Mr. Krisky seconded the motion, and the motion carried, all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
(SK second, all in favor (Roll call vote: Chairman Luntz AYE, Mr. Kauderer AYE, Mr. Haynes
AYE, Mr. Krisky AYE, and Mr. Ghegan AYE).
c) 1360 Albany Post Road Corp--1360 Albany Post road (Sec. 67.10 Block 2 Lot 12)-Submission of rendering for stone wall and fencing along Albany Post Road as a
condition of approved amended site plan.
Mr. Hernandez, architect, presented two renderings of the stone wall and fencing, the first with
green posts and a mesh fencing, the second with a railing. The Planning Board agreed that
they preferred the first rendering shown where the post and fence is green and the fencing is
painted steel mesh. The Planning Board agreed that there is more visibility into the site with the
first choice. The applicant stated they need to get approval from the NYSDOT for the fencing
and wall.
The Planning Board members were satisfied with this rendering, labeled “Exhibit A”, and Mr.
Krisky made a motion to approve as part of the condition of the approved amended site plan,
seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0 (Roll call vote:
Chairman Luntz AYE, Mr. Kauderer AYE, Mr. Haynes AYE, Mr. Krisky AYE, and Mr. Ghegan
AYE).
3. REFERRALS
a) Rossi, Ralph and Spagnoli, Philip--21-27 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.8 Block 5
Lots 42, 43, 59, 60)—Referral from the Village Board to review and make its
recommendation to the Village Board on the special permit application for 39-unit multifamily housing building.
PRESENT: Mr. Kory Salomone, attorney, and Phil Spagnoli and Ralph Rossi, applicants
Mr. Salomone stated that they were hoping to receive the Planning Board’s recommendation
this evening. They had submitted the cross sections as had been requested and updated the
traffic analysis.
The Planning Board reviewed the cross sections of the retaining walls, the site and across the
back of the building as it impacts the neighboring residents. The applicants agreed that without
some kind of screening, the roof scape would be visible from those properties and the
applicants agreed that they will continue to work with those neighbors throughout the process
regarding landscaping. Mr. Rossi stated that they are intending to make the retaining wall
corners softer and are considering creating a green wall on the retaining walls. The retaining
wall does not go into the easement area where the neighbors can top the trees. The applicants
are still considering the rooftop amenities.
The Planning Board were satisfied with the revised traffic analysis.

3

Mr. Krisky stated that he would still like to encourage the applicants to consider more affordable
units.
Chairman Luntz asked about whether the height was zoning compliant, and the applicants had
met with the Village Engineer and the overall height of the building is zoning compliant.
The Planning Board had reviewed the five goals and objectives as stipulated in Section 230-58
of the zoning code at the last Planning Board meeting. The Planning Board had requested that
the applicants update the traffic analysis to show that the proposed building would generate less
traffic than the study states, and the updated report addressed this request.
The Planning Board had also requested that the applicant submit a detailed cross section which
shows views from the street, through the building, all the way up the hill to where the neighbors
are. The Planning Board had also requested a rendering of the retaining walls. A detailed cross
section and rendering was submitted to address this request and addresses “D” of the goals
and objectives for the Special Permit review by the Planning Board.
The Planning Board also discussed the EAF and the CAF and made some suggestions to the
applicants.
The Planning Board unanimously agreed that having received the recent submissions a memo
of recommendation would be drafted, reviewed by the Planning Board members and then sent
to the Village Board.
b) M & J Auto Repair Corp (tenant) -- 485 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 67.19 Block 1
Lot 4) --Review and recommendation to the Village Board for special permit application
for motor vehicle repair shop.
There was no one present to represent this application. The Village Attorney recommended
that the Planning Board hold off on any discussion on this application until there is someone to
answer any questions about this special permit use. The Planning Board agreed to wait until
another meeting when there can be a representative present to explain the proposed use and
respond to any questions the Planning Board might have.
c) Hudson National Golf Club--40 Arrowcrest Drive (Sec. 67.15 Block 1 Lot 4)-- Consent
for Village Board to be Lead Agency and review and recommend to the Village Board for
special permit application for Matrix Solar Array Project.
PRESENT: Robert Davis, attorney, Ralph Mastromonaco, P.E., Mike Doud, director of
development of Matrix, LLC Solar Energy.
Mr. Doud gave a presentation on the proposal for a special permit for a community solar system
to be located on a subdivision of 13.5 acres on the HNGC. In addition to an application for a
Special Permit, the application would return to the Planning Board for subdivision and site plan
review.
Mr. Doud explained the matrix solar system and how credits are applied to commercial and
residential users. The program would extend the opportunity to Croton residents first but as the
program continues, it can be offered to anyone who is in the Con Edison system. Matrix LLC
Solar Energy will have a separate subscriber agreement with the golf club.

4

There was a discussion on some of the more technical aspects of the solar matrix (snow, glare,
noise) and more specifically on the number of trees being cleared and its impact on neighbors in
the surrounding areas. Mr. Davis, attorney, stated that 6.4 acres of the 13.5 acres, thereby
leaving a substantial number of trees remaining on the site.
The applicant explained that site profiles and balloon tests have shown that it is difficult to see
the solar panel system or individual panels from various locations in the village.
There is an erosion control plan in place for the project.
Ms. Whitehead, Village Attorney, explained that the application would require a number of
reviews: a special permit, subdivision approval, amended site plan approval (possibly) for the
golf club, a steep slopes permit, and site plan approval. In addition, there are a number of
issues to address: does the subdivision have the legal frontage footage, will the wildlife habitat
be impacted, a review of the number of trees to be removed, easement questions and
decommissioning plans. The application also has to go through the SEQR process.
The Planning Board agreed that a site visit would be very helpful and Saturday, November 7 at
1:00 p.m. was proposed, with Sunday November 8 as the rain date. Arrangements to access
the site will be coordinated with the golf club and the Village.
Mr. Haynes made a motion to consent to the Village Board being Lead Agency for the purpose
of SEQR on the Special Permit application from Hudson National Golf Club to the solar matrix
array project, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0 .
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes, as amended, from October
13, 2020, seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
There was a brief discussion amongst the Planning Board members about the solar matrix
application and how it impacts the environment, the level of savings that residents might actually
receive, and options for tree mitigation in the village.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

