Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
October 20, 2020
Members and Guests Present: ​Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Matthew Arnold,
Amos Bloomberg, Daniel Castner, Josh Diamond, Erik Ferguson, Edward Hadad, Robert
Olsson
1​. Approval of September 15 Minutes.
2​. Old Business
●

Approve Half Moon Bay Promenade Letter. Small edits in language were made. Letter
will be signed as a “committee,” not “unanimously.” Robert Olson will send it to the
Village Manager.

3.​ New Business
a. Improving Cyclists' Behavior
●

The Great Croton-on-Hudson Transportation Survey 2019 showed a small but significant
number of respondents expressed criticism of cyclists’ behavior in the Village.

●

Review of NYS helmet law: Matt Schuerman reviewed the law and found that helmets
are only required for children under 14. Bicyclists are bound to the same traffic laws as
cars.
Member Discussion: Principal Plotkin of PVC had stated in an earlier BPC meeting that
his policy was to give a warning to students, if they are not wearing helmets. After a
second warning they may lose their privilege to ride to school.
Allegedly the crossing guards are not at liberty to police the behavior of children
pedestrian and bicyclists.

●

Recommendations for Action:
Discussion: How could we take this on? Posters for kids with behavior? Gentle
reminders of what is proper? Flyers for all kids? Josh Diamond felt these are not
effective. It was agreed that this should be messaging for all cyclists.

“Everyone has to behave better.” Do we have a public awareness campaign for cyclist
behavior, safely, a reminder that you are supposed to follow the rules just as cars are?
This could/should be for motorists as well.
Public Campaign - like “Slow Down Croton” - a coordinated effort, with letters to Gazette,
newsletters, village website. Perhaps a year-long campaign hitting multiple fronts?
Robert Olson offered to start a brainstorming session, alsong with Marc Albrecht.
Perhaps a series of letters in a theme? A slogan? Facebook pages like the Community
page and the Croton Point. Patch? Matt Schuerman will mention it to Mayor Pugh.
Deborah Ramsey (not present) had expressed previously interest in a school
presentation of bike safety, as she has done in the past. These efforts should be
coordinated.
b. Potential Meeting with new Croton Police Chief Nikitopoulos. This would be an opportunity for
him to get to know the BPC and vice versa, to learn the best way to communicate and liaison
with him to make changes, give/get feedback, etc. to achieve shared goals.
This meeting should have an agenda, Matt will look to set it up. Questions/agenda points could
include:
1. How would you rate compliance with traffic laws in the Village? Poor/Fair/Good/Excellent
2. Are there any statistics that the Department has compiled which would suggest problem
areas?
3. Are there any correlations noted that would indicate relationships with different
violations?
4. Are records kept when warnings or advisories are offered to motorists?
5. What suggestions do you have for actions the Village could take to reduce conflicts on
the roads in the Village?
6. Do you think there might be enforcement actions the department should be
emphasizing?
7. Is there any data on the enforcement of the 25mph limits?

c. Sidewalk Grinding Program
Do we need to encourage the Village to get a grinder to smooth sidewalk heaves? A brief
general sidewalk discussion followed. As established in past meetings, due to current

circumstances with Covid and the Croton Point Ave project, Dan O’Conner is the only one
responsible for enforcement and the DPW appears to currently be overwhelmed. We will
discuss again in the near future.
d. Walk Buttons at Old Post South and Maple.
Can we ask for more descriptive signs? It is difficult to discern which buttons correspond to
which direction of crossing. It appears that there once was lettering on the signs (there still is on
one of them), but they have worn or fallen off. BPC agreed, yes, we should ask for better signs.
e. GitHub: Should We Revive It?
● This could be the main repository for BPC documents and ways of sharing/collaborating
on larger projects. We are currently not putting things in there. Should we?
● Amos Bloomberg volunteered to take the lead, but wants to encourage many
participants.
f. Ideas for Inexpensive, Effective Projects
Josh Diamond will follow up with the BOE on the proposal to re-establish a bike path behind
high school to reach PVC.
4.​ Adjournment
Next meeting will be moved to Wednesday, November 18

