Present:

THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, November 10, 2020
Zoom Video Conference
Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan
Mr. Krisky

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference of Tuesday, November 10, 2020 at
7:00p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. REFERRALS
a) M & J Auto Repair Corp (tenant) -- 485 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 67.19 Block 1
Lot 4) --Review and recommendation to the Village Board for special permit application
for motor vehicle repair shop.
PRESENT: Mr. Nick Schunk, realtor representing applicant, and Mr. Chris Lopez, representing
owner of proposed business, Mr. tom Fallacaro, property owner.
Mr. Schunk explained that the applicant is applying for a special permit use for an auto repair
shop. The space has been vacant for over 200 days. All repair work will be done inside the
shop, with outdoor parking for cars waiting to be worked on. There is already a fenced-in area
for vehicle storage, and no construction of the site will be necessary. The existing building
remains the same. Straddles (the gymnastics studio) is next door to this space, and the ET
Equipment is already functioning as a repair place. The Village Engineer noted that when
Straddles had applied for a Change of Use, concrete block walls were placed between the two
spaces and separate heating and A/C had been installed so the two spaces are completely
separate. Historic Hudson Valley still has a space to store some of the pumpkins for the Blaze.
Mr. Fallacaro stated that there is three years on the lease with an option to continue.
Chairman Luntz stated that he thought this parcel is an opportunity for development projects
(mixed use and additional proposals for housing) and had been hopeful that something else
would be proposed for this site for the benefit of the village.
Mr. Kauderer concurred and pointed out that ShopRite had spent millions of dollars on a
renovation, and Historic Hudson Valley has a proposal to expand their entrance. He stated that
this area has been moving away from the auto repair use, such as Happy Hearts Take Two and
379 South Riverside Avenue. He stated that he did not believe an auto repair shop fits into the
1

area anymore. This location is an excellent location given it is near shopping and the train, and
a bus stop right in front. Chairman Luntz noted that the Planning Board had seen two proposals
for a new building which had considered mixed-use and multi-family apartments. Mr. Fallacaro
stated that he has no intention to change the use as it did not seem economically viable. The
space had previously been rented to a landscaper.
Mr. Krisky agreed with Chairman Luntz and Mr. Kauderer and stated that he too believed this
space was better suited for other purposes at this point.
Mr. Kauderer explained that it was not up to the Planning Board to tell the owner what he can or
cannot do, only whether a special permit should be issued for a use that currently is not
permitted.
Mr. Schunk stated that it is a permitted use which is allowed under the current zoning, they are
not asking for a variance, just a special permit.
Mr. Kauderer stated that the applicant needs permission from the Village Board and the
Planning Board is charged with recommending whether or not this is an appropriate use in this
space since an auto repair use is not as of right.
The Planning Board reviewed the goals and objectives as specified in section 230-58:
A. Accessibility to fire and police:
a. Yes, this building is accessible to fire and police protection. The Harmon
Firehouse is just around the corner and the police provide protection.
B. Compatibility size and character within the orderly development:
a. Chairman Luntz, Mr. Kauderer, and Mr. Krisky pointed out that the Village has
set out a mandate for the Gateway district and other properties nearby for mixeduse and multi-family housing. These Planning Board members concurred that
they were dissatisfied with the proposed special permit use for an auto repair
shop and that permitting an auto repair shop impedes that kind of development
especially since the area is getting away from uses like auto repair. They agreed
that there should be a zoning change that would allow all residential use on three
stories.
Mr. Haynes and Mr. Ghegan agreed that there should be long term goals for this
part of the village but that the property owner is trying to work within the current
zoning district and that the Village Board could consider having a sunset clause
on the lease. They did not want to block new business from opening.
Mr. Schunk stated that all the permitted uses as specified in the code (theatre or
restaurant, service establishment, retail store or bank) would not work in this
space. The applicant’s business proposal has been the only interested party
expressing an interest in the space.

2

C. The Planning Board agreed that there was no issue with safety or traffic since the area
for cars was fenced in. It was noted that there is an incongruity that a children’s
gymnastic studio is next door and typically these are not uses that should be next door
to one another.
D. The Planning Board agreed that although the existing fence is not attractive, it is not
going to change.
E. This goal is not applicable to this application.
Mr. Jim Picciano, owner of Straddles Gymnastics, stated that during the pandemic they do not
have the usual numbers of children and that he has appreciated that Mr. Fallacaro has allowed
them to pay month to month on their lease. It is his hope that when the pandemic ends, they
can continue in this location.
After more discussion, the Planning Board agreed by a vote of 3-2 to recommend that the
Village Board not issue a special permit for the auto repair use. Chairman Luntz, Mr. Kauderer
and Mr. Krisky, in the majority, agreed that this was not the best use of this property and they
recommend that the Village Board consider a zoning change in this location to reflect the
changes in this neighborhood (ShopRite upgrade, Historic Hudson Valley potential
beautification project of entranceway, 379 South Riverside Ave, Happy Hearts).
Mr. Haynes stated that he agreed with the recommendation to change the zoning to be more in
line with the gateway area, however, he believes that the property owner has the right to make
the best use of the property given the zoning restrictions he is living with and rezoning would
take some time to achieve. He did not think it would be harmful to have this business in the
proposed space and Straddles also did not have any objections.
Mr, Ghegan agreed with Mr. Haynes and stated that the proposed business was within an area
of 4 gas stations (two with repair shops). He noted that Mr. Fallacaro owns the business and
the owner should be given a chance to rent it. He would like to see an individual (the proposed
tenant) make a life for himself and pointed out that Straddles has been in existence for close to
20 years and wanted to remain in its current location.
A memo will be circulated among the board members and then sent to the Village Board.
b) Hudson National Golf Club--40 Arrowcrest Drive (Sec. 67.15 Block 1 Lot 4)-- Consent
for Village Board to be Lead Agency and review and recommend to the Village Board for
special permit application for Matrix Solar Array Project.
PRESENT: Robert Davis, attorney, Ralph Mastromonaco, P.E., Mike Doud, and Stuart
Meissinger (Chazen)
Mr. Davis stated that they had just received the memo from Chazen Engineering and they plan
to respond although he does not think that such levels of detail are needed for VB approval at
this time. All points, however, will be addressed. The Planning Board along with Village Board
3

members were at a site visit on November 7, 2020 for about two hours. Chairman Luntz, having
read through the Chazen comments, stated that he also thought many details will be addressed
further down the road during site plan review. He stated that he thought the site visit had been
instructive.
There was some discussion on some of the more detailed aspects of the site: fence height,
frontage requirements and accessibility during construction to emergency vehicles, tree
removals and mitigation, scientific calculations about certain items, and habitat impact.
The Village Attorney stated that the Village Board may want to do an environmental review. Mr.
Davis stated that they will provide a tree mitigation report and pointed out that the loss of these
trees will have the carbon offset of the equivalent to 13,000 trees. Mr. Alan Milton, stated that
they have a habitat expert, Mr. Steve Marino, who is ready and standing by to prepare a report
on the impact of the tree removal on the natural habitat in this area. The Village Attorney noted
that there is language in the amended site plan about maintaining the habitat.
Mr. Kauderer stated that given the number of trees being removed, there may be tremendous
community opposition to the proposed project and suggested the possibility of a
recommendation for a mitigation fund which could assist the village (e.g. electric charging
stations, electric cars for village use) to offset the number of trees being removed. The Planning
Board members agreed that they supported solar energy but were conflicted because of the
number of trees being removed and would like to have more clarification on the specific savings
to individual homeowners and the benefits to the community and the village.
The Village Attorney also suggested that the area that is being disturbed is designated as a
“non-disturbance area” and now is a disturbed area. The Planning Board might want to
maintain some areas as non-disturbed areas.
The Planning Board agreed that additional information would be helpful before making a
recommendation, in particular getting a report from Mr. Marino, an outline of benefits to the
homeowners, and additional information on the stormwater system and mitigation impacts as
well as a video of the downstream drainage (during rainstorm), and photos of any solar array
site in terms of the meadow surrounding the panels and what the area might look like ten years
from now. Mr. Stuart Mesinger of Chazen stated a SWIFF will be required.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of October 27, 2020, as
amended, and seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
The Planning Board agreed that any comments or questions in the “Q & A” section of the Zoom
meeting must have a name and address in order to be responded to. No “Anonymous”
comments or questions will be accepted or addressed.
There was a brief follow-up report from the Village Engineer on the status of the Half Moon Bay
promenade. At this point the plans have been submitted to the HOA. The Planning Board
4

reminded the Village Engineer about the $35,000 required escrow amount prior to the approval
of the Building Permit.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:16 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

