MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Nov. 1, 2020 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:
Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher
John Habib

[Bracketed] text relates to actions subsequent to this meeting.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: On Oct. 23, State Sen. Peter Harckham’s office issued a proclamation (mounted in
a plaque) recognizing our attainment of silver status as a Climate Smart Community (CSC). It was
delivered that day in a brief ceremony at the front of the Muni Bldg. We thank Mayor Pugh for
making that event happen.
Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:
- Solar projects:
- Croton Landing canopy job: Regarding the legal impasse on “alienation of park land” that is
presently blocking further development, Lindsay spoke with County officials (including County
Exec. Latimer) on options for overcoming it at the County level. On Oct. 13, Latimer met with Peter
McCortt (the County Sustainability Director) and a County attorney on the matter. On Oct. 20,
McCartt stated that they felt the best approach was at the State level via support of Sen.
Harckham’s bill (S.8635 https://www.nysenate.gov/legislation/bills/2019/s8635 ). The bill would
cover all park land in the State. It would allow installation of solar canopy systems (up to 2 MW)
over their parking lots. It passed the Senate but lacks a companion bill in the Assembly. Due to the
legislative calendar, action is unlikely before February. Mayor Pugh, Joel, and Lindsay asked our
Assembly rep (Sandy Galef) for her assistance. NYSERDA had previously said it would help but
then bowed out, saying it was now a legislative issue outside its purview.
- Train station parking lot canopy job: On October 5, we received 7 proposals. Most required
changes due to inclusion of canopies in embargoed sections of the parking lot, missing
documentation, etc. One proposal offered so little leasing rent that its math was questionable. Once
corrected, most were in the 2,500 to 3,500 kW range, with another proposing 4,753 kW. Annual
lease payments also varied widely. The proposals are being reviewed by Village personnel.
Ecogy (vendor for the DPW job) chose not to bid due to a variety of risk factors, among them being
geotechnical conditions below the parking lot. It also cited a possible competing demand on the
local Con Ed feeder by a proposed 5 MW battery project to be sited in Ossining and Competition
for that capacity from the County’s planned ~3 MW parking lot canopy system at Croton Point Park.
- EV/EVSE: The school district is creating a bus electrification task force to meet Nov. 19 (discussed
below under “Outreach”). To support EV infrastructure (other than chargers), NYSERDA is initiating
the Make Ready grant program to be run by the utilities. Details are in process, but it may cover up
to 100% of the cost. Additional funds from the VW and Mercedes diesel settlements will go to
1

increasing vouchers for large EV trucks (NOT toward EV school buses). Pricing for EV garbage
trucks has recently come down. Lindsay is analyzing at what level such financial support might be
worth considering for one of our trucks, plus an appropriate charger. At this point in time, our
desires and needs are about 2-3 years ahead of the technology and EV truck capabilities.
- Invitation to C100 on the food scrap recycling and Heat Pump Water Heater (HPWH) programs:
Joel reported that C100 said it did not have resources to help either, but Donna O’Malley (formerly
with C100) agreed to assist with recruiting participants. To that end, she, Joel, and Lindsay are
developing a draft survey and intro letter to assess community interest. It will be distributed in early
2021. The County has offered its own scrap pickup and transportation program, so we may need to
re-design our program to take advantage of it.
A discussion ensued regarding C100 and its plans to expand into CURE100 (an organization
bringing together and/or initiating like-minded groups in nearby towns and villages). While Joel had
lost hope for C100 due to its checkered development record, John Habib was more optimistic.
Based on his ongoing efforts to provide legal assistance to C100, he believed the group was still in
its nascent stages, such that we should give it more time to blossom. Questions were raised
regarding how expanding a group that has yet to show much value could produce results not
available through Sustainable Westchester. No responses were received that clarified the issue.
- HPWH project: based on discussions at our last meeting, and follow-up suggestions from Jon Katz
and SW’s Lauren Brois, that effort is being refined, with a goal of sending out its survey in early
2021. SW is developing resources and is committed to assisting us. After our last meeting, Brois
provided a lot of useful data. As discussed under “New Business”, a new NYSERDA CEC grant
program will open soon that may also provide support for that project.
Reports:
- Len’s reviewed which enviro group(s) to approach for a grant (see report at the end of these
minutes). He summarized his work by saying we should develop a dialogue with one of the 3
groups (he suggested NRDC). Fortunately, Len knows someone at that group via a past working
relationship. He will initiate a discussion on grant options (e.g., study to overcome limited feeder
capacity impacting EV and solar) that could also help other municipalities facing such issues.
- Niall reviewed bokashi pickling vs. standard composting (see report at the end of these minutes).
He summarized his experience, which included purchasing and using a bokashi kit. He felt that the
extra work and cost involved, while perhaps acceptable for some committed gardeners, did not
merit its use in place of standard composting. We therefore do not see value to promoting the
technique, or incorporating it into our own food scrap program.
Communications:
- NYPA’s renewable power offer: Via a Nov. 6 conference call with NYPA personnel, Mayor Pugh
and Lindsay expect to finally receive some numbers. [NYPA asked for more time to do so,]
- In response to our April 24 FOIL request, the school district (on Oct. 27) sent invoices for all of its
fuels (for both buildings and vehicles) and electricity use in 2018. [Some data was missing and
subsequently provided. Due to the complexity and difficulty sorting through it, Lindsay
spreadsheeted the data and calculated the GHG, instead of trying to train an inexperienced person
to do so. Total GHG for the district (including electricity and fuels for buildings and vehicles) came
2

out to 2,131 metric tons (MT) for the year, which is 50% higher than our municipal carbon footprint.
Based on other data previously secured, the school district appears to be the 2nd highest GHG
emitter in the Village, behind only the Metro-North train yard.]
- Zooms: helpful, informative, but none led to specific actions at this time. One had useful information
on how to electrify the school district’s buses and charging infrastructure. Some of its graphics will
be used in a draft slide show to be previewed to school personnel on Nov. 9. It will show how to
combine community solar with other existing programs to electrify the school bus depot and fleet.
Recruitment/Outreach:
- The school’s Environmental Sustainability Committee zoomed on 10/20. Last spring, the district
issued a RFP for an energy performance contract (EPC). It received proposals from Honeywell and
ESG (Energy Services Group). Over the summer, preliminary energy audits of school facilities
were completed by a consultant (ECG). They were discussed at a 10/22 Board of Ed meeting.
Foremost among ECG’s recommendations: a full-scale conversion to LED lighting, and installation
of solar panels on the schools’ rooftops. Other measures included: boiler and HVAC controls, pipe
and envelope insulation, and localized controls on kitchen hoods, corridor steam traps, and plug
loads. To expand on that work, the Board approved Honeywell to perform a more detailed
Comprehensive Energy Audit (CEA), pursuant to a formal proposal for an EPC to be completed
over the next year. If accepted, installation work would start 8/21 with completion by 8/22.
The newly formed bus electrification task force (co-chaired by Supts. Griffith and O’Donnell) will
Zoom Nov. 19. Lindsay was accepted as a member.
New business / other events:
- A new NYSERDA Clean Energy Community (CEC) grant program will start by the end of the year.
Having previously received a grant in 2018, we were thereafter barred from getting another. We are
now informed that we are “fully eligible” for a grant under the new program. Depending on its rules,
we may be able to secure assistance for the HPWH program or another venture.

Dates for our next two Zoom meetings: Dec. 6 & Jan. 24, both Sundays, 10:30 AM

3

Len’s report on seeking private grants from major environmental organizations
TO:

Lindsay Audin

FROM:

Len Simon

SUBJECT: Grant Funding from Major Environmental Organizations
DATE:
October 22, 2020
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Following up from our September meeting, I looked at the grant making of the Natural Resources
Defense Council, the Sierra Club and the Environmental Defense Fund to learn about the type, size and
process of the grants they make. Here's what we know so far:
(1) Each of the three organizations internalize their grantmaking decisions based on their own priorities
and strategies, rather than do public solicitations. So to be a potential grantee, we need to establish
communication with them and see if they are interested in collaboration. Their grantmaking is extensive
based on the available information, but also seems to be heavily focused on "environmental education and
advocacy", the core mission of these groups. That could impact our potential partnerships with them. I
have reached out to each of the organizations, familiarizing them with Croton and the Sustainability
Committee and asking how we could engage with them as grantees. I've heard back from one group twice
and will explore possibilities with them. I'm hope to hear from the other two soon.
(2) The Natural Resources Defense Council, according to their 2018 IRS Form 990, made 137 grants to
domestic organizations including governments. The typical grant was under $25,000, with some notable
exceptions like $237,000 to the City of Baltimore. About 10% of their funding went to municipalities, the
rest mostly to local advocacy organizations. I know their Managing Director for Healthy People &
Thriving Communities, from her days in the Obama Sustainable Communities program. I've heard
back twice from her staff and plan for an exploratory discussion soon.
(3) The Sierra Club makes grants through its Foundation. Its 2019 Annual Report shows $79.6
million in grants, mostly to Sierra Club programs. For the remainder, they "provide flexible
funding... with a broad spectrum of allied organizations around shared values and goals ". Their
IRS Form 990 shows no direct funding to municipalities, but grants like $50,000 to a state agency
on EV buses and the VW settlement do appear. Overall, t hey gave $12.2 million in 2019 to "Clean
Energy Solutions" focusing on power and transportation. I've written to discuss grant possibilities.
(4) The Environmental Defense Fund grant making is done throughout their individual core
programs, the largest of which is "Climate and Energy". EDF’s aim is to "stabilize the climate by
dramatically reducing greenhouse gas emissions" so it matches up well with our objectives. According to
their IRS Form 990, EDF gave out 125 grants in 2019 for political activity, climate and energy,
ecosystems, health and other areas. Many recipients were public agencies like universities, regional
councils and state offices, but no direct to municipalities. I've written to discuss grant possibilities.
(5) I hope this is helpful and look forward to discussing this with you and Sustainability Committee
colleagues on November 1, including any follow-up conversations with the three organizatio ns.
4

Niall’s report on bokashi pickling as an alternative to standard composting
Here is my experience with Bokashi composting this month. I bought a starter kit from Amazon (approx. $50),
comprising a plastic bucket with a tap at the bottom and a bag of Bokashi probiotic to be mixed with the food scraps.
First, let me give you a little Bokashi Composting history (from www.thespruce.com).
Bokashi is a Japanese word meaning "fermented organic matter." Developed in the early 1980s by Dr. Teuro Higa, a
professor at the University of Ryukyus, Okinawa, Japan, the method involves layering kitchen scraps (vegetables and
fruits, as well as meat and dairy scraps) with a Bokashi inoculant in a special bucket. Usually, the inoculant consists of
either wheat germ, wheat bran, or sawdust combined with molasses and effective microorganisms (EM). The
bran/molasses serves as the food for the microorganisms, which are the same natural microorganisms found in soil.
The Bokashi bucket has an air-tight lid and a spigot at the bottom to drain off the liquid that is produced. The liquid must
be drained off to prevent the bucket from developing a somewhat foul odor, but the liquid serves as a very nutritious
"bokashi tea" that can be used to fertilize houseplants.
When layered and left to sit out of direct sunlight, the mixture quickly begins to ferment, and within 10 days the
fermented mixture can be dug directly into the garden or added to a traditional compost bin or pile to finish its
decomposition. In essence, the bokashi process is a fermentation process rather than a traditional composting method.
Unlike traditional composting, which is an aerobic process that requires oxygen, Bokashi is an anaerobic process that
requires that you isolate the materials from oxygen as much as possible. The bucket should be opened only to add
scraps, not to check on the materials. Some people recommend pressing the food waste into the composter to squeeze
out the air, then leaving a plate (or another flat object) resting on top of the material to shield it from exposure to
oxygen.

The process is easy enough. After every meal, put the food scraps into the bin and spread a layer of the bokashi
probiotic bran on top, then quickly seal the bin. Unlike composting which requires oxygen, this process is anaerobic and
oxygen actually hinders the process.

5

The bucket holds about 2 weeks’ worth of scraps. The liquid tea at the bottom of the bucket can be drained off using
the tap and used to feed indoor and outdoor plants.
The major pros to this process:
1. Can keep up to 2 weeks’ worth of food scraps in the house before taking them out.
2. This process can deal with meat and dairy products and pet waste unlike regular composting.
The major issues with the process:
1. It is recommended that the food scraps be chopped up before being put in the bin in order to quicken the
fermenting process.
2. The Bokashi Probiotic Bran costs about $10 to $15 a month, depending on how much is used.
3. At the end of the fermenting process, every 2 weeks, the contents of the bucket have to be buried in trenches in
soil, to complete the composting process or added to a regular compost bin.
This type of composting method is labor intensive and costly ($150 annually). It is worth the cost and effort if one is a
gardener and is motivated to reduce their personal landfill footprint. Otherwise I cannot see a lot of people looking to
adopt this method of dealing with food scraps. It is easier to throw them in the garbage.

6

