Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, December 7, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 5:50pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Village Attorney Whitehead recommended that the Board not begin the Public
Hearings until 6:00pm. Mayor Pugh agreed but felt that approving the
Vouchers and reading some of the correspondence would be appropriate.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$108,845.99
$5,098.68
$24,011.23
$120,307.91
$245.00

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL –
E-mail from Lauren Davis dated November 30, 2020 asked for an outline
of the reasons for buying this property (25 S Riverside Avenue); how does
this fit into the Village’s Master Plan; how does our current Master Plan
address climate change; this continues to be a real issue as at least one of
the developmental plans considered in the Gateway will certainly be at
issue due to climate change, has the Village considered the fact that
Metro North has included in their ten (10) year plan a discussion of having
to move their tracks due to climate change because of rising sea levels.

Village Manager King stated that she hopes that Ms. Davis’ questions will
be answered this evening during the Public Hearing.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 2

4. CORRESPONDENCE:
a. Memo from Village Engineer Daniel O’Connor dated November 20,
2020 requesting an extension of a Building Permit for 370 South
Riverside Avenue.
On motion by Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Habib the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request to extend the “Building Permit” for 370 South Riverside
Avenue for six months. Motion was approved with the following Roll
Call: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye,
Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
b. E-Mail from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated November 25,
2020 advising of membership changes in the Croton Fire Department.
c. Report on the “2020 Croton Gorge Unique Area Trail Steward
Program”. Link to the report:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/
2020_Croton_River_Gorge_Unique_Area_Final_Report%20(1).pdf
d. Notice from the Village of Haverstraw regarding the adoption of their
“Comprehensive Plan-Local Waterfront Revitalization Program” and
implementing code amendments. Link to the notice:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Haverstraw_BOT_Letter
%20(1).pdf
e.

Notice of a Public Hearing from the Town of Ossining Planning Board
regarding an application by Borrego Solar Systems to construct a
standalone energy storage system on the property located at 381 N.
Highland Avenue in Ossining. Link to notice:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Ossining_Public_Hearing
%20(2).pdf

f. E-mail from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated December 4,
2020 advising of the Fire Department’s upcoming election.
The following portion of the meeting began at 6:00pm.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 3

Mayor Pugh asked Village Manager King to briefly go over where the Village
Board is with regards to the “Special Use Permit” Application for 25 S.
Riverside Avenue.
Village Manager King advised that the Village Board received the Planning
Board’s recommendations; following the Public Hearing this evening, the
Board will begin the “SEQRA” process which includes going through Part II
and III of the “EAF” (Environmental Assessment Form) as well as looking at
consistency with the ”Local Waterfront Revitalization Program”, after those
reviews and if the Board issues the “Special Permit”, the Applicant will then
have to go back to the Planning Board for a “Site Plan Review”.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Board will not be taking any action this evening,
they will only be taking comments from the public.
Kory Salomone, representing the applicants Ralph Rossi and Phil Spagnoli in
connection with their “Special Permit” Application for a multi-family building
at 25 South Riverside, advised that they made their initial submittal to the
Village Board on September 8, 2020, subsequent to that meeting, the Village
Board referred them to the Planning Board and the Waterfront Advisory
Committee. Mr. Salomone stated that the Planning Board found that their
Application met their five conditions and unanimously recommended a
“Special Permit” for the proposed thirty-nine (39) unit building.
Mr.
Salomone advised that the project is the assemblage of four parcels at 25 S.
Riverside for a total of approximately 1.2 acres. Mr. Salomone advised that
earlier this year, the Village Board updated their “Comprehensive Plan”
identifying this parcel as being in a “Transitional Zone” appropriate for multifamily and subsequently re-zoned the property to the “C1-RB” Zoning
District which allows three stories as long as the building stays within the
thirty-five (35) foot height limitation; the proposal includes twenty-six (26)
one bedroom units and thirteen (13) two bedroom units, with a 10%
affordable component which equates to four (4) affordable units. Mr.
Salomone explained that the building will be developed on the parcels that
already have a building on it and the vacant lot to the north will have at
grade level parking for a total of fifty-nine (59) parking spaces; forty-nine
(49) spaces below the building and ten (10) spaces in the vacant lot. Mr.
Salomone stated that they just recently submitted the “roof-top” plan that
include some outdoor amenity space.
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 4

Link to the “Site Plan”
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/BOT_Meeting_07Dec2020%20(
1).pdf
Trustee Simon asked Mr. Salomone if the forty-nine (49) parking spaces are
completely underground and to describe in more detail the structure of the
parking.
Mr. Salomone advised that the parking below the building is primarily below
grade, coming off the street the elevation towards the north is a little lower
and it creeps up as you go south, but the parking spaces will not be seen
from the outside except for the ten (10) spaces on the vacant land.
Trustee Simon asked if tenants in the building will have access to the
parking from the interior of the building via a staircase or elevator.
Mr. Salomone responded by saying that access to the parking area will be
made from the interior via a staircase and elevator.
Trustee Habib asked for someone to address lighting on the roof-top.
Ralph Rossi advised that since this is a preliminary plan, they have not
officially addressed a lighting plan but stressed that they are concerned and
sensitive to the neighbors and do not want to create any light pollution; they
are also considering no lighting on the back of the building so that it would
not reflect onto the surrounding neighbors at the top of the hill.
Trustee Simon stated that the solar array is very impressive and asked if it is
exclusive to the building or will be there some excess that might go
elsewhere.
Mr. Rossi stated that they have not done a full analysis of the solar array at
this time, but the intent is to have the excess power distributed to the
tenants who live in the building as a community credit and then any extra
would go back to the Con-Ed grid.
Mayor Pugh stated that there has been some concerns by some members of
the public about climate change and flooding. Mayor Pugh stated that he
believes that the only area listed as a potential flood zone is the inter-section
of Brook Street and North Riverside and that is primarily a drainage issue
and not so much as a river rising issue. Mayor Pugh asked how far away is
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 5

25 S. Riverside Avenue from the river, what is the elevation and is that in a
flood zone?
Mr. Rossi advised that the property is not in the flood zone, the flood zone
ends at the corner of Brook and North Riverside, the parking lot is at an
elevation of fifteen (15) feet and the majority of the parking garage goes
from sixteen (16) feet to nineteen (19) feet, and the building is
approximately three hundred and fifty (350) feet to four hundred (400) feet
away from the flood zone.
5. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Motion to open a Public Hearing on the “Special Use Permit” application
from Ralph Rossi and Philip Spagnoli for the construction of a multiresidential building at 25 S. Riverside Avenue was made by Trustee Habib.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Lauren Davis, 14 Hamilton Avenue, Croton on Hudson, advised that
initially over seventy percent of the respondents of the survey stated that
they never wanted this kind of multi-unit housing in this part of Croton,
yet we were never really responded to why this was going ahead. Ms.
David stated that during an informal walk-through in one of the homes off
Barton Place a balloon set was performed and they were reassured by one
of the developers that the building height would not go above that balloon
height. Ms. Davis stated that, as a member of this community, and one
who lives above this project, she would like to see that in writing and
know that this is a real legal promise. Ms. Davis stated that the final
submission drawings indicate that the first floor building elevation is at
32.75 but by the time they add the additional height of the building
parapet and the stair-towers, the height is over the height limit of 35 feet
and because the first floor is approximately 16 feet above the level of the
driveway entering the parking garage the apparent height of the building
from the street would be well over 45 feet. Ms. Davis stated that there
also seems to be a lack of transparency regarding additional information
with respect to a traffic study and a GEO Technical Report; the Planning
Board is saying that the traffic will not be any busier than when the
hardware store was there, but it does not make sense to her since the
retail parking lot had 25-30 spaces and this project has 59 spaces. Ms.
Davis added that the fact that there is no GEO Technical investigation is of
concern because the topography rises over 60 feet in elevation and
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 6

without testing data and knowledge of the soil bearing capacity how does
the project engineers propose to design the foundation. Ms. Davis asked,
if the Village is the Lead Agency, does it then assume liability for damage
to neighboring sites. Ms. Davis stated that she was told that on small
projects the Village acts as the Engineer and asked if this is considered a
small project; why is an outdoor space on the top of this building be
considered when it is not allowed or proposed on other buildings in the
area. Ms. Davis stated that there is a document from the MTA that
indicates that they are imagining within the next ten to fifteen years they
are going to have to relocate the tracks because of flooding possibilities
and asked what the site location is relative to FEMA’s “One Hundred Year
Flood Zone”.
Ralph Rossi advised that the parapet and the stairs pursuant to the Village
Code does not count in the height definition, they did submit a Traffic
Study to the Planning Board which was then forward to the Village Board,
many of the issues pertaining to lights and stormwater run-off will be
detailed when they go through their Site-Plan review; with respect to the
GEO Technical question, they had a GEO Tech Engineer do a few borings
at the site and they will be reviewed for soil retainage, more will be done
but we are not at this particular stage and a lot of the heavy lifting will not
be done until they are issued the “Special Permit”.
Mayor Pugh advised that the Traffic Study was conducted by “Provident
Design Engineering” and is included in the attachments. See attached
link to the Traffic Study and all back-up documents:
https://crotononhudson.novusagenda.com/Agendapublic/
CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=5406&MeetingID=748
Ralph Rossi advised that they looked at the site at three different
intersections: Brook Street and South Riverside, Grand Street and South
Riverside and the site driveway on South Riverside, all three of those
intersections are operating at a level “B” and after construction they will
still be operating at level “B”. Mr. Rossi stated that with respect to the
balloon test, they floated the balloons to the maximum permitted height
based on the elevations on the average grade that they are utilizing, and
they are within the 35 foot height requirement.

6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 7

Ginevra Blumenfeld, 59 Van Wyck Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that
70 percent of the people that live here did not want this type of
development to be taking over that whole area and does not understand
why we are doing it, this does not seem like a small project but rather a
large project and asked if an environmental study has been done for this
project, she understands that one of the things that the Village Board
considers before approving a project is to determine that there are no
undesirable changes to the character of the neighborhood or a detriment
to nearby properties but in this situation it is clearly the case and is
certain that it would be detrimental to this neighborhood, it is a large
building with a roof-top/hang-out area and because the staircase is not
included in the 35 foot calculation, she believes it is going to be above the
limit; she also has concerns with digging into the hill that is extremely
steep and could

possibly collapse and asked who would be liable for her foundation if it is
compromised.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Village would not be liable but
rather whomever caused the damage. Village Attorney Whitehead stated
that the Board will have all the information before any final decision is
made, an “EAF” (Environmental Assessment Form) has been provided to
the Village Board and as the “Lead Agency” prior to the Village Board
determining whether to require an “Environmental Impact Statement”,
the Board can request additional studies and/or hire a consultant to
review both the GEO Technical Report and the Traffic Study before the
Board makes their determination of any potential significant adverse
environmental impacts. Village Attorney Whitehead pointed out that the
prior speaker was citing standards for the granting of a “Variance” and
this is not a “Variance” application.
Mayor Pugh asked Village Engineer Daniel O’Connor to provide
clarification as to the size of other multi-family dwellings in the Village and
if the Village has any roof-top access points or things of that nature.
Village Engineer Daniel O’Connor stated that Bari Manor located on Old
Post Road South has eighty-two (82) apartments that were built in the
1960’s, the Van Wyck apartments on Grand Street has thirty-one (31)
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 8

apartments that were built in the 20’s; Half Moon Bay Condominiums has
approximately two hundred and eighty (280) units; Scenic Drive
Townhouses has approximately eighty (80) units; Symphony Knoll Senior
complex on Mount Airy has twelve (12) units, Mount Airy Woods
apartment complex has twelve (12) units, and the new building at 379 S.
Riverside Avenue has eight (8) apartments. Village Engineer Daniel
O’Connor stated that nothing comes to mind with respect to roof top
lounges/outdoor areas; not because they are prohibited but because no
one has requested it.
Mayor Pugh asked what are the pieces that are allowed to be above the
thirty-five (35) foot requirement.
Ralph Rossi responded by saying that the parapet and the staircase and
its enclosure are not included in the height restriction and added that the
rooftop decking is not higher than the roof.
Thomas Breglia, Director of Hudson Valley Hospital, with offices at 35
South Riverside Avenue, stated that they had some issues with a sewer
line that runs down the hill and he is concerned what they will find once
they start digging out the hill. Mr. Breglia also stated that they have an
open parking lot next to the proposed facility and he is concerned that
people will use their parking lot if the proposed parking is not adequate.
Mr. Breglia also asked where construction vehicles would be staged and
brought up his concerns about the possibility of these truck blocking
access to their driveway during construction.
Mr. Salomone stated that they are zoning compliant with respect to
parking and they will ensure that all roads stay open at all times during
construction and that no construction vehicles obstruct access into Mr.
Breglia’s facility.
Ralph Rossi reassured Mr. Breglia that they will not be doing a lot of
digging near the retaining wall; the building is approximately twenty five
to thirty (25-30) feet away from the retaining wall. Mr. Rossi stated that
he believes they have more than adequate parking given that most of the
apartments are one bedroom, and they have allocated one and half
parking spaces for all apartments. Mr. Rossi stated that we also have
outdoor unrestricted parking for visitors and there is also quite a bit of
parking on the street in front of the building. Mr. Rossi stated that their
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 9

plan is to use the empty lot to stage everything and there would be no
need for any construction vehicles loading and unloading in front of the
medical building.
Cathy Caputo, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is not
happy about a building of this scope, it pushes Croton more and more
from a small Village to a small City and is concerned about a big building
like this going up. Ms. Caputo state that she is also concerned about the
pressure it puts on the school system even though there are mostly one
bedroom apartments. Ms. Caputo stated that one of the benefits she does
see is that some of the retired members of our community may have an
opportunity to get an apartment and asked if it is possible that Croton
residents get preference.
Mr. Rossi stated that with respect to school children, because of the
number of one bedroom units, they estimate approximately two children
coming out of the building.
Mark Alexander, 58 Farrington Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
throughout the various proceedings the population has shown their distain
for this project; he does not want to see this area congested, there are
already parking issues on some of the adjacent streets, and he has not
seen a cost analysis of the benefits of this project.
Harley Blumenfeld, 59 Van Wyck Street Croton on Hudson, stated that he
is concerned about climate change and that the MTA is talking about
abandoning the current location of the tracks because they are too close
to the water. Mr. Blumenfeld stated that during Hurricane Irene and
Hurricane Sandy water rose all the way up to Brook Street and damaged
many cars and asked what the plans are to keep the garage from
completely flooding and damaging cars as well as keeping it stable. Mr.
Blumenfeld stated that the research may show that we will get one or two
children but from past experience in other communities, school districts
saw more students entering the system from similar projects and we need
to have a plan in place if this occurs. Mr. Blumenfeld stated that we
should not become a commuter town and he is not sure that this is the
direction we want to take.
Ralph Rossi stated that the building is not in the flood plain and while we
refer to the parking garage as underground, in essence it is half
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 10

underground and does not anticipate any flooding in the garage. Mr.
Rossi stated that as per code, they are required to have storm water
retention on site as well as a treatment program for that storm water.
Trustee Habib thanked the residents who spoke this evening, the Village
Board is in research mode and these comments mean the world to the
Board, none of the Trustees take these comments lightly and we hone our
own evaluation based on what we are getting from the public and asked
residents to please not think that if we do not comment that we are
ignoring the points that were raised. Trustee Habib also encouraged
residents to put comments in writing and send them to the Village Board
which helps us as well. Trustee Habib thanked the Applicants for being
prepared and for the professionalism of their submissions and their effort
to extemporaneously answer questions in this difficult forum.
Trustee Gallelli concurred with Trustee Habib’s comments, the questions
this evening were extremely good, and the responses were well prepared.
Trustee Gallelli stated that everything is going to be looked at very
carefully and she is quite confident that the issues that have been raised
this evening will be pursued and that the Village Board will seek those
answers through the appropriate consultant studies as we process this
Application.
Mayor Pugh thanked everyone who spoke this evening, there were a lot of
good questions, some were answered and some in need of further
investigation, the Board is not making any decisions this evening, the
Applicants have been flexible, they amended their original proposal and
they have been very forthcoming with documentation and he expects that
we will see more from them in the near future.
Mayor Pugh stated that there was reference to Local Laws 9 and 10 and
the process that lead to their adoption. Mayor Pugh reiterated that those
revisions were from the 2017 Comprehensive Plan and there was a survey
conducted as part of that process, the survey was certainly open to
interpretation and one of the key points is that those questions were
asked prior to the drafting of those Local Laws and prior to the final
version and that revisions were made to those Local Laws from comments
made during the public comment period. Mayor Pugh stated that it is
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 11

important to understand that the previous Zoning for this area allowed for
an “FAR” (Floor Area Ratio) of 2.0 and it is now 0.8 which meant that

previously a building floor coverage would have been 200% of the size of
the actual lot; as well as increasing set-back requirements. Mayor Pugh
stated that at the time of the adoption of the Local Law the schools were
approximately one hundred (100) students smaller than their peak which
was a few years ago and it has remained well below that peak for a
number of years; birth rates in Westchester County remain very modest
so there is at this time capacity in the school far and above any
projections from this development.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.

Motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 8 of 2020 to amend Chapter 191, entitled
“Sewers” of the Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to update
language regarding on-time payments was made by Trustee Habib.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager King explained that these changes are not substantive,
but rather to match the way we bill the water and match the language
and is just a housekeeping change.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #173-2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 12

WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 191, Sewers, of the Code of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update language regarding on-time payments; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on December 7, 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2020 to amend Chapter 191, Sewers, of the Code of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update language regarding on-time payments,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 10 of 2020.

Motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 9 of 2020 to amend Chapter 223, entitled
“Water” of the Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to update
penalty procedures was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #174-2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 223, Water, of the Code of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update penalty procedures; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on December 7, 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2020 to amend Chapter 223, Water, of the Code of
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 13

the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update penalty procedures, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 11 of 2020.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none
7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #163 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was put forth for adoption.
WHEREAS, the Inter-Municipal Mutual Aid and Rapid Response Plan Agreement
between Westchester County and the Village has expired; and
WHEREAS the purpose of this plan is to establish procedures for the Police
Departments of Westchester County to provide uninterrupted delivery of police
service during situations that exceed the resources of any individual department;
and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to continue participating in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the commencement date of this agreement is July 31, 2020, and
terminates on July 30, 2025,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the Inter-Municipal Agreement pertaining to the Mutual Aid and Rapid
Response Plan for the Police Departments of Westchester County.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Horowitz asked why this is being approved now as opposed to when it was
expired
Village Manager King advised that the Village did not receive the document in July,
and she is not sure if it is because of Covid-19 issues or the changing of our Police
Chief and it may have gotten sent to the wrong email, but at the last meeting we
held it over because the County had not included the “Appendix A” which has since
been emailed to the Board.
Trustee Habib asked why the attachment is private/confidential because he did not
see anything in the attachment that would lend itself to it not be made public and
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 14

asked Attorney Whitehead to explain. Trustee Habib also pointed out that the
Commissioner’s name is incorrect and needs to be updated.
Village Attorney Whitehead said that she has not had the opportunity to review the
attachment and is happy to do so, but this is the way the County sends things out
and it is not unusual that they are late on renewals.
Village Manager King stated that she discussed this with the Police Chief and for
matters of public safety it was agreed that it did not need to be made public, but if
the Board feels that it is a document that should be made public, they can attach it
to the contract.
Trustee Habib asked if we are operating under an IMA (Inter-Municipal Agreement)
right now or is this a new procedure that has been put in place to document the
level of support by the Westchester County Department of Public Safety and asked
if this is similar to the last agreement and has it been amended and restated and
would like to see the prior agreement as well.
Village Manager King stated that this is the same document, it has not been
changed, it is just that it has expired and requires a renewal.
Village Attorney Whitehead said that it is not an amended or restated Agreement,
but rather a renewal for a new period of time and we can provide the expired
agreement to the Board.
Trustee Habib said that he does not think it has expired if we are operating under
that agreement.
Village Manager King stated that this is the same mutual aid plan that we have
been following for at least five years.
Trustee Habib stated that he does not see any evidence of that.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the County was late in giving us the renewal
agreement, and the resolution talks about the old agreement having expired and
that the County and the Village has continued to act under those terms.
Trustee Horowitz said that she is in favor of seeing last year’s document.
Mayor Pugh asked Village Manager King if she saw any problems if we tabled this
until December 21st.
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 15

Village Manager King said we are operating under the expired agreement right now,
they are not going to stop operating under that agreement just because it is not
signed, it is just something that the Board needs to follow up on.
Bryan Healy advised that he located the one that was approved on October 5, 2015
and it included Appendix A.
Mayor Pugh asked that it be sent to the Board as a back-up item and we will
approve it at the next meeting.
Motion Tabled.
Resolution #175 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS, the Village is desirous of replacing the existing Engine 118, which has 25
years of service for the Croton-on-Hudson Volunteer Fire Department; and
WHEREAS, on December 17, 2018, the Village awarded the bid for one 2018 Triple
Combination Pumper (Bid #06-2018) to Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the amount of $829,885; and
WHEREAS continuing discussions with the manufacturer has led to Change Order 7
being drafted, with a change amount of $4,469.26; and
WHEREAS, as this is the 10th change order to date on this purchase, the change will
result in a net total credit of $7,081.89 to the Village,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to sign Change Order 7 with Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the change amount of $4,469.26.
Resolution #176 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 16

WHEREAS the Village seeks to purchase laptop computers for two employees to be
able to work from home when necessary, and
WHEREAS funding for one such computer is available in the water fund; and
WHEREAS funding is currently allocated for one computer in the publicity
department, which the Village does not need to purchase at this time,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2020-2021 budget in the amount of $1,327 as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A1680.2020
Decrease
A6410.2020

Data Processing – Computers

$1,327

Publicity – Computers

$1,327

Resolution #177 of 2020
Removed from Agenda
Resolution #178 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS on November 3, 2020, a fallen tree damaged the fence surrounding the
sewer pump station on Nordica Drive; and
WHEREAS on November 30, 2020, Mancon LLC of Yorktown Heights, New York,
completed the repair at a cost of $1,000; and
WHEREAS a claim was submitted
reimbursement of the damage; and

to

the

Village’s

insurance

carrier

for

WHEREAS the Village has received a partial reimbursement check from its insurance
carrier in the amount of $832.50,

16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 17

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the Sewer Fund 2020-2021 budget in the amount of $832.50 as follows:
SEWER REVENUE
Increase
G1000.2680

Insurance Recoveries

$832.50

SEWER EXPENSES
Increase
G8120.4000

Sewer - Contractual

$832.50

Resolution #179 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS, on June 4, 2018, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson awarded a contract for
cleaning services for Village-owned buildings to NSI Clean of Middletown, New York;
and
WHEREAS, on May 18, 2020, such contract was extended under the authority of
General Municipal Law Section 103(4) through November 30, 2020; and
WHEREAS, due to the continuing emergency conditions resulting from the COVID-19
pandemic, Village buildings remain closed to the public and social distancing rules
must be adhered to; and
WHEREAS General Municipal Law Section 103(4) allows for the Board to let a
contract without public bidding where necessary due to a public emergency arising
out of an unforeseen occurrence or condition,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
extends the contract of NSI Clean for cleaning services for Village-owned buildings
for an additional period of two months on the same terms and conditions as the
current contract price of $3,276 per month.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 18

Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on November 16, 2020 was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on November
30, 2020 was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS
Trustee Gallelli stated that she is pleased to announce that last Friday
Vincent Duffy was inducted into the “Westchester County Senior Hall of
Fame”, he has been a long time and important member of the Croton
Seniors Organization. Trustee Gallelli stated that a lovely article was
written about him in the recent Gazette detailing what he has been
involved in.
Trustee Gallelli welcomed Trustee Len Simon to the Board and said that
she looks forward to working with him.
Trustee Gallelli advised that last weekend the Police Department
coordinated with the “Croton Caring Committee” and held a wonderful
toy drive outside the municipal building, it was wonderful to see so many
people who responded and brought toys.
Trustee Gallelli reported that the Police Task Force is now working in subcommittees and they will be reporting back to the Village Board at some
point in the future.
Trustee Habib stated that he will be completing one year on the Board
and thanked the Village Manager, the staff and his colleagues on the
Board for their patience in training him. Trustee Habib welcomed Trustee
Simon to the Board.
Trustee Horowitz announced that the Menorah and Christmas Tree
Lighting will happen this Thursday evening at Vassallo Park. Trustee
Horowitz welcome Trustee Simon to the Board.
Trustee Simon stated that Croton is so fortunate to have so many people
giving their time and energy to make us a better community. Trustee
Simon said that he has been sitting in on Rotary meetings over the last
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 19

several weeks and is impressed by their activities and good spirit; our
Sustainability Committee met yesterday, and their work is so impressive
in so many areas; he just completed two years on the Zoning Board and
thanked Chair Christine Wagner and the members for giving him a great
experience, he learned so much and it is his opinion that our Zoning is in
good hands with that team moving forward. Trustee Simon thanked the
Mayor and his colleagues on the Board, Manager King, Bryan Healy, Clerk
Paula DiSanto and the entire Croton team for the kindness and generosity
in getting him ready to serve. Trustee Simon said that he has worked for
local government officials his whole life, he has learned some good
lessons from them over the years and he hopes to make a real good
contribution and continue the great progress that has been underway in
recent years as a result of all of the Village Board’s good efforts.
Mayor Pugh welcomed Trustee Simon and returning Board member
Deputy Mayor Ann Gallelli.
Mayor Pugh appointed Bernie Yozwiak and Dan Colombini to the
Sustainability Committee.
Mayor Pugh advised that today is Pearl Harbor Day and because of the
Covid-19 pandemic, the County will not be holding their Tri-County
Ceremony but asked everyone to remember the 2,400 lives that were
lost on that day and to draw on the example of the greatest generation
responding to that crises as an inspiration to everyone in the current
situation we find ourselves in.
Village Manager King advised that cases in Croton continue to rise, we
received word that Croton has thirteen new cases, and it may be time for
the Village to make official the “Mask Law”. Village Manager King stated
that possibly within a week from today she will be announcing a “Health
Emergency” and will ask the Police to start enforcing our law.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:30pm
Respectfully submitted
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 7 2020
Page 20

_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

20

