Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, November 16, 2020 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simmons

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simmons made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$1,496,405.09
$82,527.69
$2,839.66
$553,602.50
$5,245.70

APPROVAL OF BLANKET PURCHASE ORDERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following additional Blanket
Purchase Orders for Fiscal Year 2020-2021. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Simmons and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund

$1,512.00

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL – none
4. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 7 of 2020 to create a new Chapter 158 entitled “Masks
and Face Coverings” was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Mayor Pugh stated that this law, if adopted, will not go into effect
immediately, it will be at the discretion of the Village Manager when to
invoke the authority granted under the proposed Local Law.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 2

Roseann Schuyler, Olcott Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she does
not remember seeing this law on any other meeting agenda other than
the brief mention of it at the last meeting and is concerned that it was not
discussed in an open meeting. Ms. Schuyler asked why the Village
Manager has been chosen and not the Village Board, it is her opinion that
if regulations were to be placed on people’s behavior, she would think that
it would be better to have those decisions made by those who were at
least answerable to the will of the people through an election. Ms.
Schuyler also asked why the Board believes this is necessary, the Village
Manager does not have a Department of Health or a Surgeon General at
her disposal and it would seem that any action to declare a health
emergency would be done on the basis of data from the County or from
the State.
Cathy Connelly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
glad that enforcement on residential properties has been eliminated from
the law. Ms. Connelly stated that she is also concerned about the
regulation on public streets; if she is out walking her dog without a mask,
she could be subject to receiving a fine.
Lauren Davis, 14 Hamilton Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
supports this and hopes that people start to take this very seriously.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that part of the reason for the Village to
adopt their own law is to set forth fines and based on the Governor’s
Executive Order and under “Public Health Law”, the Village can enforce
this. Village Attorney Whitehead added that in a Manager form of
government, the Village Manager, as the “Chief Executive Officer”, is
authorized to declare a State of Emergency.
Mayor Pugh stated that the County Health Department is very assessable
to the Village as is the State and the Village Manager would only declare
this after consulting with these Departments.
Trustee Horowitz asked if this could be a Westchester County decision
rather than a local decision since they do have access to all the
information.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that “Executive Orders” have come
from the State, not the County.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 3

Trustee Habib asked if Trustee Horowitz is asking if we should add that
the Village Manager would act following consultation with the County.
Village Manager King stated she would definitely discuss it with the Board
and with the State Department of Health; she has had weekly conference
calls with the County since March and has no problem reaching out to the
them but she knows what their answer will be “do what you think best”.
Mayor Pugh stated that there are a number of communities that have
adopted laws like this, and it is based on the situation we have with
regards to infection rates; we are fortunate that we have a full time
Manager who can react quickly to these situations and while the Board will
be kept in the loop it is not a decision that we want to have to wait to
make at a Board meeting. Mayor Pugh asked Village Attorney Whitehead
if we would need to re-notice the Public Hearing if we were to add in
consultation with the Board of Trustees.
Village Attorney Whitehead responded by saying that this would be a nonsubstantive change and it would not need to be re-noticed but does not
recommend adding this to the law. Village Attorney Whitehead explained
that any State of Emergency Declaration goes to the State Health
Department for approval. Village Attorney Whitehead added that the
Board could not discuss it without having a public meeting and a Manager
form of government allows the Manager to make these decisions.
Trustee Horowitz stated that after listening to this discussion, she does
not think the Board needs to be consulted but she is happy to hear that
the Village Manager could not, by herself, make a Declaration of
Emergency without the State Health Department’s approval.
Trustee Habib stated that the Board did not discuss this in any closed
meeting but rather their knowledge of the law was based on reading the
attachments and there has not been any violation of the “Open Meetings
Law”. Trustee Habib stated that in his one year experience on this Board,
he has been impressed by how the Village Manager and the Board
together strictly comply with the letter and the spirit of the “Open
Meetings Law” and that any allegation of the contrary is baseless.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this raises an interesting aspect of our
government that people may not be fully informed about, that we are a
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 4

Council/Manager form of government wherein the Manager is the “Chief
Executive Officer” of the Village and concurs of the need and the
worthiness of having this law passed at this time given the current
situation.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she feels that the $250.00 fine is too much;
she has also heard from some of our constituents that they are concerned
about middle and high school age kids and asked if this would be enforced
on this age group as well.
Village Manager King stated that the fine is up to $250.00 and it would be
at the discretion of the Judge. Village Manager King said that the law
states that children under two years of age are exempt.
Mayor Pugh stated that this age group could be issued a summons.
Trustee Simmons agreed that $250.00 is a lot and while he understands
that the Judge would not necessarily issue that amount for the first time, it
is still a lot.
Village Manager King suggested amending the law to say up to $100.00
for the first violation and up to $250.00 for any subsequent violations.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that she does not believe this is a
substantive change and therefore not necessary to re-notice the Hearing.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #158-2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village would like to create a new Chapter 158, Masks and Face
Coverings, in the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to require the use of
masks and face-coverings in certain areas during public health emergencies; and

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 5

WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language; and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on November 16, 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2020 to create a new Chapter 158, Masks and Face
Coverings, in the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to require the use of
masks and face-coverings in certain areas during public health emergencies, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 9 of 2020.
Motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the “Special Permit”
application from Marco Ordonez, of M & J Auto Repair Corp. to
operate a motor vehicle repair garage at 485 S. Riverside Avenue
was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Ari Peterson, 4 Devon Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if the changes
will affect the lateral support on the hill and will there be any changes in
noise. Mr. Peterson asked if the other businesses would remain.
Tom Fallacaro, owner of 483 S. Riverside Avenue, stated that there will be
no changes to the hill and everything that has been currently going on
over the years will not change and there should not be any additional
noise.
Mayor Pugh stated that the current businesses will remain.
Nick Schunk, Real Estate Agent representing the applicant, stated that
this space is in the back that was previously being used by a landscaper
and the building will remain the same. Mr. Schunk stated that this
application was reviewed by the Planning Board, there were five criteria
that they reviewed, and they only raised concern that maybe this use was
not in keeping with the direction of the neighborhood. Mr. Schunk stated
that the Applicant can only work with the current Zoning, this property
was on the market for approximately two hundred and fifty-two days with
no other persons expressing interest in the property.
Lauren Davis, 14 Hamilton Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
understands that there seems to be a way of thinking amongst the
Planning Board of a certain direction that the Village should be going but
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 6

the re-zoning that happened in another part of the neighborhood was
because of a particular idea or agenda of how the Village is supposed to
go which many people were opposed to and believes this person should
be allowed to keep it as is.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #159-2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Marco Ordonez, of M & J Auto Repair Corp., to operate a motor vehicle repair
garage at 485 S. Riverside Avenue; and
WHEREAS, under Section 230-17B(3) of the Village Code, storage or repair garages
are only permitted in the C-2 Zoning District with a special use permit; and
WHEREAS this action is a Type II action under the New York State Environmental
Quality Review Act, which does not require an environmental review, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board reviewed this application at their meeting of
November 10, 2020, and has submitted a memo opposed to this application; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on November 16, 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues
a special permit to M & J Auto Repair Corp., 485 S. Riverside Avenue, to operate a
motor vehicle repair garage with the following conditions:
This special permit shall be valid for the period beginning November 16, 2020,
through November 15, 2023 and can be renewed.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib thanked the Planning Board for their work and analysis of the
situation.
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 7

Trustee Gallelli stated that the proposal meets the requirements of the current
Zoning and satisfies all of the criteria that is involved in granting the “Special
Permit”.
Mayor Pugh stated that he appreciates the time and effort the Planning Board took
on this matter; the Planning Board looks at an application from all angles, but we
have to evaluate this on what the current Zoning is at this time.
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS 6. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #160 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMMONS the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 191, Sewers, of the Code of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update language regarding on-time payments; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on December 7, 2020, at 6 PM to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 8 of 2020 to amend Chapter 191, Sewers, of the Code of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #161 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 8

WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 223, Water, of the Code of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update penalty procedures; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on December 7, 2020, at 6 PM to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 9 of 2020 to amend Chapter 223, Water, of the Code of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #162 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB and seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 168, Parks and Recreation
Areas, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to regulate the use of
unmanned aircraft systems in parks and public recreational facilities; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on January 4, 2021 at 6 PM to consider Local Law Introductory
No. 10 of 2020 to amend Chapter 168, Parks and Recreation Areas, of the Code of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #163 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB the following
resolution was put forth for adoption.
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 9

WHEREAS, the Inter-Municipal Mutual Aid and Rapid Response Plan Agreement
between Westchester County and the Village has expired; and
WHEREAS the purpose of this plan is to establish procedures for the Police
Departments of Westchester County to provide uninterrupted delivery of police
service during situations that exceed the resources of any individual department;
and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to continue participating in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the commencement date of this agreement is July 31, 2020, and
terminates on July 30, 2025,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the Inter-Municipal Agreement pertaining to the Mutual Aid and Rapid
Response Plan for the Police Departments of Westchester County.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib stated that he did not see the Schedule A and asked why it was not
attached to the Agreement.
Secretary Bryan Healy stated that they may not have included it in the document
because it deals with the “Rapid Response Plan” and the “Mutual Aid Plan”.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that while this may not have to be publicly shown
the Village should have it and the Trustees should be able to review it.
Mayor Pugh recommended that the Resolution be tabled.
Resolution #164 of 2020
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMMONS and seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simmons
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, on September 12, 2020, the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department
responded to a call for service on the Hudson River for two parties in the water with
a swamped canoe, and

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 10

WHEREAS, while performing their duties, one of the firefighters dropped their
mobile phone in the water; and
WHEREAS a search of the area did not locate the phone; and
WHEREAS a claim
reimbursement; and

was

submitted

to

the

Village’s

insurance

carrier

for

WHEREAS, the Village has received a reimbursement check from its insurance
carrier in the amount of $1,299,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2020-2021 budget in the amount of $1,299 as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A1000.2680

Insurance Recoveries

$1,299

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A3410.4220

Fire Equipment Supplies

$1,299

7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on November 4, 2020 was made by Trustee Simmons. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9.

REPORTS
Trustee Simmons advised that this will be his last meeting; it has been an
honor serving on the Board; he enjoyed working with his fellow Board
Members, staff and members of the various Boards and Committees, he
thanked our Volunteer Fire Department and our Emergency Service
Workers for all that they do for our community. Trustee Simmons
reminded everyone that Board members live in our community, we are
your neighbors and while we may not do everything that everyone
agrees with, we do what we do because we all love Croton.

10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 11

Trustee Gallelli thanked Trustee Simmons for his service; he brought a
great deal to the Board and it was a pleasure working with him and she
looks forward to him continuing to be involved in the community.
Trustee Gallelli advised that the “Police Reform Task Force” will be
holding their final public forum this Thursday at 7:00pm VIA Zoom, this
forum is for all members of the community and encouraged everyone to
sign onto the meeting.
Trustee Horowitz stated that it has been wonderful working with Trustee
Simmons and thanked him for all he has done on the Board and for our
community.
Trustee Habib stated that Trustee Simmons will be missed and thanked
him for being a great colleague and assisting him during his first few
meetings when he first came on the Board.
Mayor Pugh expressed his deep gratitude to Trustee Simmons, he
appreciated the creativity he brought to addressing problems as well as
the empathy that he showed to everyone especially in an age of cynicism
towards government, he will be missed and his service is greatly
appreciated.
Mayor Pugh thanked the American Legion for organizing a wonderful
socially distant Veterans Day celebration; the Village’s EMS Explorers for
organizing the recent Blood Drive and the Girl Scouts for organizing a
Food Drive this past weekend. Mayor Pugh stated that it is shaping up to
be a difficult time for many people and for those that are in a position to
do so, to please look for ways to help the less fortunate.
Village Manager King stated that she and the staff will miss Trustee
Simmons and thanked him for all he has done while on the Board.
Treasurer Bullock stated that it has been a pleasure working with Trustee
Simmons and wished him well.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:50pm
Respectfully submitted
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
November 4, 2020
Page 12

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

12

