Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, January 4, 2021 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simon
Village Attorney Amanda Brosy

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$39,272.00
$3,370.62
$980.00
($2.00)
$1,675.00

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
4. PUBLIC HEARING
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 10 of 2020 to amend Chapter 168, “Parks and
Recreation Areas” of the Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to
regulate the use of unmanned aircraft systems in parks and public recreation
facilities was made by TRUSTEE HABIB. Motion was seconded by TRUSTEE
HOROWITZ and approved with a 5-0 vote.
There being no comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #1 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib, Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 2

WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 168, Parks and Recreation Areas,
of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to regulate the use of unmanned
aircraft systems in parks and public recreational facilities; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2020 has been drafted to reflect such
language; and
WHEREAS a public hearing was opened and closed on January 4, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2020 to amend Chapter 168, Parks and Recreation
Areas, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to regulate the use of
unmanned aircraft systems in parks and public recreational facilities, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 1 of 2021.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib stated that he supports the resolution but asked that we define our
parks and recreation facilities so that people understand that this does not apply to
“Croton Point Park” which is a Westchester County owned park and additionally
suggested that we consider including the wording “village owned parks” in the
resolution.
Village Manager King stated that our Code does define recreational facilities and
said that she does not believe we need to include the phrase “village owned parks”
because we would not be allowed to regulate “Croton Point Park”.
Village Attorney Whitehead agreed with Manager King.
5.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a. Draft Master Plan Document from the Bicycle & Pedestrian Committee.
To view the Draft Master Plan, you may click on the following link:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Croton_BikePed_Master_Plan_Submitted_Dec_23_2020.pdf

6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Emma Brad, 8 Crest Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
objecting to the increased fine with respect to Introductory No. 2 of 2021
to amend Chapter 158, Masks and Face-Coverings. Ms. Brad also stated
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 3

that she does not agree with the restrictions and that it is a lot more
government over-reach than we need. Ms. Brad stated that she believes
that citizens are capable of managing their own lives in a safe manor and
can operate safely during this pandemic.
7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #2 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Ralph Rossi and Philip Spagnoli for a multi-family residential building at 25
South Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS, on October 19, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes; and
WHEREAS on December 21, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the
process and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the EAF “Determination of
Significance” attached hereto; and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions; and
WHEREAS on December 21, 2020, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues
and adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto,
and adopts a Negative Declaration pursuant to SEQRA in connection with this
action, and

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 4

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees found the following
LWRP policies to be applicable and finds the Proposed Action to be consistent with
each of these applicable policies:

Policy 1: Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and underutilized
waterfront areas for commercial, industrial, cultural, recreational and other
compatible uses.
Policy 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public services
and facilities essential to such development are adequate, except when such
development has special functional requirements or other characteristics which
necessitate its location in other coastal areas.
Policy 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed
within the current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close
proximity to areas where distribution lines currently exist.
Policy 5C: Limit proposed development within those portions of the coastal zone
boundary area, where traffic impacts such as site distance and carrying capacity
of the roadways are restricted, particularly along Route 9A, Albany Post Road and
Route 129.
Policy 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer
overflows shall be effectively channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, and other
contaminants from polluting surface and ground water and impact the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase
in erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations.
Construction activity shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species
and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
Policy 1l: Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to
minimize damage to property and the endangering of human lives caused by
flooding and erosion.
Policy 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 5

to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and
promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design,
construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.
Policy 13: The construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures
shall be undertaken only if they have a reasonable probability of controlling
erosion for at least thirty years as demonstrated in design and construction
standards and/or assured maintenance or replacement programs.
Policy 14: Activities and development, including the construction or
reconstruction of erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there
will be no measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities
or development, or at other locations.
Policy 17: Whenever possible, use non-structural measures to minimize damage to
natural resources and property from flooding and erosion. Such measures shall
include: (i) the setback of buildings and structures; (ii) the planting of vegetation
and the installation of sand fencing and draining; (iii) the reshaping of buffs; and
(iv) the flood –proofing of buildings or their elevation above the base flood level.
Policy 17A: Efforts to control erosion along the rivers and on the steep slopes
rising from areas inland shall be of a non-structural nature, wherever possible, in
consideration of the visual impact of structural measures. The retention or
planting of vegetative covers will be preferred to structural measures.
Policy 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of
stormwater runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.
Policy 33A: Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as
to not increase flows within the existing system or to improve existing stormwater
runoff systems so that runoff from such developments does not adversely impact
coastal waters.
Policy 37B: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be
exerted in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new
construction.
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 6

The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above
were reviewed and found to not be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the construction of a multifamily residential building at 25 South Riverside Avenue, complies with the policy
standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP.

Resolution #3 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was put forth for adoption:
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Ralph Rossi and Philip Spagnoli for a multi-family residential building at 25
South Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS, on October 19, 2020 the Village Board declared itself lead agency for
SEQRA purposes and referred this matter for comment and recommendation to the
Village Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC); and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has issued a memo to the Village Board with a
favorable recommendation and the WAC has issued a memo of consistency with the
Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP); and
WHEREAS, on January 4, 2021, the Village Board issued a Negative Declaration with
respect to the proposed action; and
WHEREAS, on January 4, 2021 the Village Board determined that the Proposed
Action was consistent the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s
LWRP; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on December 7, 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board issues a “Special Permit”
for a multi-family residential building at 25 South Riverside Avenue subject to the
following conditions:

6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 7

1. That the applicants must obtain a steep-slopes permit and site plan approval
from the Planning Board.
2. That the applicants must obtain the necessary approvals from the New York
State Department of Transportation.
3. That the applicants must submit a lighting plan for the building to be
reviewed as part of the Planning Board Site Plan approval process.
4. That the applicants must submit a “Rooftop Terrace Operations Plan” to be
reviewed as part of the Planning Board Site Plan approval process.
5. That the applicants be required to provide escrow funds to be used for the
Planning Board to retain a geotechnical engineer and any other necessary
professions to assist in the review of the site plan and steep slope permits in
accordance with Chapter 178 of the Village Code.
6. That the hours of soil excavation and trucking work be limited to Monday –
Friday 8:00 am to 4:00 pm, Saturday 9:00 am to 4:00 pm and no work on
Sundays and holidays
7. That the applicants be required to provide a flag person on South Riverside
Avenue during the trucking soil removal work as required by the Chief of
Police and/or Village Engineer.
8. That a bond or other suitable security acceptable to the Village be submitted,
prior to a building permit being issued, covering the costs of the
improvements in the street Rights of Way and the amount of the bond shall
be found acceptable to the Village Engineer.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Habib asked the Board to consider adding certain language that could be
beneficial in setting the record as well as adding a clause after the fourth whereas
indicating that the proposed action, when viewed in its entirety, did not have
material significant impacts. Trustee Habib felt that we owe it to our stakeholders
and constituents to take the time to put in some language that clarifies that our
focus has been on their views and incorporate them in some of the necessary
review steps; with respect to the clause that the applicant must obtain the
necessary approvals from the “NYS Department of Transportation”, we have been
looking at that carefully with the specific emphasis on traffic flow and construction
permits that are required by the State that would be contingent upon this project
going forward. Trustee Habib stated that he is struggling with the brevity and the
importance of clarity and eliminating any confusion on the side of our residents
whose valuable input has gone into this every step of the way.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that a lot of those comments and details are in
the “SEQRA” process and are included in the “EAF” through the responses in “Part
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 8

2” and “Part 3”. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that these are “SEQRA” issues
on how the Board got to the “Negative Declaration” and said that we can change
the fourth whereas to reflect this to read as follows: that the Village Board
issued a Negative Declaration pursuant to “SEQRA”, with respect to the
proposed action, determining that the proposed action will not result in
any potential significant adverse environmental impacts”. Village Attorney
Whitehead stated that a lot of that detail is in other documents that are the backup
to the other resolution that the Board just adopted.
Trustee Simon stated that he believes what Trustee Habib is saying is that “subsections” 1-8 are really the ones that have been raised by people who have been
concerned or have particular interest and issues with aspects of this project and by
requiring that the applicants obtain the necessary approvals from the “New York
State Department of Transportation” clarifies that we will have a better
understanding of the traffic impacts of the project.
Trustee Gallelli suggested revising the NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as
follows: that the Village Board, after studying the issues and listening to
public comment at the aforesaid Public Hearing, hereby issues a “Special
Permit” for a multi-family residential building at 25 South Riverside
Avenue subject to the following conditions. Trustee Gallelli stated that she
believes this would clarify that much of this is in response to the input we received
from the public.
Trustee Habib stated that this certainly addresses his issue and suggested including
Attorney Whitehead’s wording as well.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the “New York State Department of
Transportation’s” Permit isn’t really a condition in response to comments, they
cannot build the project without getting a permit from the “NYS DOT”.
Trustee Horowitz stated that what she believes Trustee Habib is suggesting is that
we actually tell people what these things mean, because what the “DOT” is really
talking about with respect to “DOT” approvals is actually where the cut could be
made on Route 129 even before this project moves forward. Trustee Horowitz
stated that the input we received from residents was about their concerns as it
relates to height, noise, lighting and parking, and hopefully we will consider all
these issues and if we add “in response to people’s concerns” it really does not
answer what she believes Trustee Habib is addressing.
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 9

Trustee Gallelli stated that what we are outlining here are things that we are going
to pursue further in response to concerns expressed by residents during the Public
Hearing.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Planning Board would have to consider
many of these issues anyway; this is really pointing out things that the Board wants
the Planning Board to address in their “Site Plan Review” such as the lighting plan
and the roof-top terrace operation plan which are in response to the comments the
Board received.
Trustee Simon asked if it would be helpful if the additional language be in an
existing section or a stand-alone document that clarifies that the public is invited to
participate in the “Site Plan Process” through the normal Planning Board avenues
that are open to the public, similar to what was available during the “Waterfront
Advisory Committee’s” review process where the public helped in getting this
project to this place. Trustee Simon explained that while some communities have a
separate Architectural Review Board, Croton’s Planning Board has the responsibility
for architectural review, and we will be taking input from the public on these issues;
the Planning Board is the next step and information will continue during that
process.
Village Manager King asked if this can be part of the minutes as opposed to adding
it to the resolution.
Trustee Simon stated that if it appears nearby, that would be fine.
Trustee Horowitz stated that during conversations about the roof-top plan, she
thought she heard that there were not any Zoning regulations with respect to rooftop activities and asked if this is going to be a first for the Village to approve a
building that has in its plan a recreational use on a roof-top.
Village Manager King responded by saying that is correct.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she is concerned that if there are no regulations then
the residents have a reason for concern with respect to lighting, noise, smells, hours
of use, and how this may add to the building height.
Village Manager King stated that this is why this is being added as a “Condition” so
that it is something that the Planning Board can, not only review, but can mandate
certain limitations that would be over and above what our current “Noise
Ordinance” says.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 10

Trustee Simon stated that the Planning Board has responsibility and oversight for
noise and light regardless of where it occurs, and they can make some judgements
on whether or not they want to approve particular uses based on noise and lighting
as well as requiring the applicant to make those adjustments and from his
observations, he would expect the Planning Board to incorporate these issues into
their thinking. Trustee Simon stated that this resolution underscores these issues
and would expect them to take it very seriously.
Village Manager King stated that she believes it is better for the Planning Board to
review this rather than the Village Board because if the building is built and there
are issues with respect to operations on the roof-top terrace and they do not meet
what the Planning Board set in their approval resolution, then the Village Engineer
can issue a violation.
Trustee Simon stated that we agreed that nearby or following the resolution there
would be some general or a more specific statement about how the public interacts
with the Planning Board process.

Following the discussion, the Board of Trustees amended the original
resolution as bolded and italicized in the body of the following resolution:
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
AMENDED resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Ralph Rossi and Philip Spagnoli for a multi-family residential building at 25
South Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS, on October 19, 2020 the Village Board declared itself lead agency for
SEQRA purposes and referred this matter for comment and recommendation to the
Village Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC); and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has issued a memo to the Village Board with a
favorable recommendation and the WAC has issued a memo of consistency with the
Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP); and

10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 11

WHEREAS, on January 4, 2021, the Village Board issued a Negative Declaration
pursuant to “SEQRA”, with respect to the proposed action, determining that
the PROPOSED ACTION will not result in any potential significant adverse
environmental impacts”, and
WHEREAS, on January 4, 2021 the Village Board determined that the Proposed
Action was consistent with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the
Village’s LWRP; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was held and closed on December 7, 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board, after studying the
issues and listening to public comment at the aforesaid Public Hearing,
hereby issues a “Special Permit” for a multi-family residential building at 25
South Riverside Avenue subject to the following conditions:
1. That the applicants must obtain a steep-slopes permit and site plan approval
from the Planning Board.
2. That the applicants must obtain the necessary approvals from the New York
State Department of Transportation.
3. That the applicants must submit a lighting plan for the building to be
reviewed as part of the Planning Board Site Plan approval process with
specific reference to potential lighting impacts on wildlife and
residences adjacent to the site.
4. That the applicants must submit a “Rooftop Terrace Operations Plan” to be
reviewed as part of the Planning Board Site Plan approval process with
specific reference to potential noise level restrictions being
instituted.
5. That the applicants be required to provide escrow funds to be used for the
Planning Board to retain a geotechnical engineer and any other necessary
professions to assist in the review of the site plan and steep slope permits in
accordance with Chapter 178 of the Village Code.
6. That the hours of soil excavation and trucking work be limited to Monday –
Friday 8:00 am to 4:00 pm, Saturday 9:00 am to 4:00 pm and no work on
Sundays and holidays.
7. That the applicants be required to provide a flag person on South Riverside
Avenue during the trucking soil removal work as required by the Chief of
Police and/or Village Engineer.
8. That a bond or other suitable security acceptable to the Village be submitted,
prior to a building permit being issued, covering the costs of the
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 12

improvements in the street Rights of Way and the amount of the bond shall
be found acceptable to the Village Engineer.
Resolution #4 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village is desirous of replacing the existing Engine 118, which has 25
years of service for the Croton-on-Hudson Volunteer Fire Department; and
WHEREAS on December 17, 2018, the Village awarded the bid for one 2018 Triple
Combination Pumper (Bid #06-2018) to Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the amount of $829,885; and
WHEREAS continuing discussions with the manufacturer has led to Change Order 8
being drafted, with a change amount of $1,002; and
WHEREAS as this is the 12th change order to date on this purchase, the change will
result in a net total credit of $6,219.16 to the Village,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to sign Change Order 9 with Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the change amount of $1,002.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli asked if this is change-order number 9 why does the resolution
indicate that this is the 12th change-order.
Bryan Healy advised that the change-orders that were done before construction
started were lettered and the ones that were done after construction were
numbered.
Resolution #5 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 13

WHEREAS the Village contracts with the Public Employer Risk Management
Association (PERMA) each year for its workers compensation coverage; and
WHEREAS the coverage for the Village’s employees and volunteers totaled
$396,670 for the 2020-2021 fiscal year, and
WHEREAS due to the COVID-19 pandemic, PERMA has authorized a one-time excess
surplus refund to its members; and
WHEREAS the Village has received a check in the amount of $12,827.85,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
accept the payment from PERMA in the amount of $12,827.85,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such payment shall be credited towards the
2020-2021 PERMA paid invoice.
Resolution #6 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that
establishes a “property tax cap” on the amount that a local government’s property
tax levy can increase each year; and
WHEREAS this law became effective for a local government’s fiscal year beginning
in 2012; and
WHEREAS under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes
charged on the municipality’s taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at
2 percent or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS the rate of inflation this year has been set by the State Comptroller’s
Office at 1.31% for municipalities operating on a June through May fiscal year; and
WHEREAS the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to
protect the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and

13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 14

WHEREAS state legislation requires that in the event an override is necessary, the
law enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2021 has been drafted to override the
“property tax cap” law enacted by State Legislature if necessary,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Tuesday, January 19, 2021 at 6 p.m. to consider Local
Law Introductory No. 1 of 2021 to override the “property tax cap” law enacted by
State Legislature, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that this is something that we have been able to do except for
one year since the “Tax Cap” became a law, and it is important to adopt so that we
have the option if necessary.
Village Manager King stated that the fifth whereas talks about unforeseen financial
circumstances and this is the year where we have had unforeseen financial
circumstances due to Covid and asked that we do not take this lightly.
Trustee Gallelli stated that if we do not do this and some unforeseen financial
circumstances arise, and we cannot meet the “Tax Cap”, the Village would be
penalized so we are doing this to avoid this from happening.
Resolution #7 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village adopted Local Law No. 9 of 2020 on November 16, 2020, to
establish Chapter 158, Masks and Face Coverings, in the Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson; and
WHEREAS such local law requires the use of masks and face-coverings in certain
areas during public health emergencies; and
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 15

WHEREAS the New York State Department of Health has submitted comments to
the Village regarding the law; and
WHEREAS NYSDOH has recommended the removal of certain exemptions and the
revision of the fine schedule in accordance with state law; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2021 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on January 19, 2021, at 6 PM to consider Local Law Introductory
No. 2 of 2021 to amend Chapter 158, Masks and Face-Coverings, in the Code of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that even though our original Local Law indicating a $250 fine
for the first violation and a $500 fine for subsequent violations was adequate, he
understands that the State is requiring that our Legislation be consistent with the
“State Department of Health’s” fine structure. Trustee Simon stated that the
“Governor’s Executive Order” indicates that a fine be at a maximum of $1,000 and
suggested that our Law mimic the State’s fine structure.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the State has clearly indicated that they will
not accept the language that we had in our Local Law and she suggested that the
Board mimic the “State’s Department of Health” fine structure that indicates a
maximum fine of up to $1,000. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the court
would have the discretion of what the fine would be and believes that it would be
un-likely they would impose a $1,000 fine.
Trustee Simon suggested that we go back to the State and ask them if there is a
way to characterize this as something less than $1,000.
Village Manager King stated that we are basically saying this by saying “up to
$1,000”.
Bryan Healy stated that he spoke with the Health Department’s legal counsel and
their opinion is that they do not wish for us to have any law on the books, they feel
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 16

it is unnecessary based on the existing State Law, but if we are going to have a Law
on the books, they want it to match exactly with what they already have and what
we have before the Board this evening matches their Law.
Trustee Simon asked if this means they do not want us to have any law with respect
to fines or with respect to masks.
Bryan Healy stated that it is the opinion of the “State Health Department” that the
“Governor’s Executive Order” covers the entire State, and it is not necessary for
municipalities to have their own legislation but if a local municipality chooses to
have their own Legislation, they are allowed to, provided the language mirrors the
State’s language.
Village Manager King stated that Attorney Whitehead had told us in the past that we
did not need a law on the books and that we could enforce the State’s “Executive
Order” if we wanted to.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the State’s regulation is enforceable by
municipalities and that you did not need to have your own law.
Trustee Horowitz asked why we are considering it.
Mayor Pugh stated that he believes there is value in making it clear that this is
something that the Village is going to enforce and that the Police Department is
tasked with enforcing this and in light of transparency he believes we should have it
in our Code even if it is not absolutely necessary.
Trustee Simon stated that he agrees with the Mayor and is wondering if we can
include some language in our minutes that clarifies for the public more concisely
than just recounting our conversation that the fine is consistent with State Law but
that our Croton Village Justices will have discretion to modify that based on
circumstances as they see appropriate.
Trustee Habib stated that he also supports the Local Law and sees both pieces of
legislation as clarifying to our residents that we are taking a stand that we really
want to take control of our Code and make sure that it is easily accessible for
anyone who gets a fine and sees it as a proper duplication.
Trustee Simon suggested that we also put in the back-story that our original fine
structure was lower but we were informed appropriately by the State that there is
no flexibility on the maximum $1,000 fine but there is discretion in our Village
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 17

Justice system and that our Village takes wearing masks and enforcement seriously
but the ultimate decision on how much the fine would be levied would be at the
purview of the Justice court.
Resolution #8 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village has received grant funding in support of the Croton Coalition;
and
WHEREAS these funds have been expended to reimburse coalition expenses,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2020-2021 budget in the amount of $32,374.17 for grant
monies received for reimbursement related to expenditures by the Croton Coalition
as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A4050.4997
Federal Aid-Public Health
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A4050.1000
Public Health-Per. Services
A4050.1200
Public Health-OT Personnel
A4050.4000
Public Health-Contractual
A4050.4200
Public Health-Supplies
A9030.8000
Social Security
A9031.8000
Medicare

$32,374.17
$13,914.00
$ 4,418.27
$ 9,185.53
$ 3,453.95
$ 1,136.60
$
265.82

8.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none

9.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on December
21, 2020 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.

17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 18

Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on December
21, 2020 was made by Trustee Habib. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on December
30, 2020 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote
10. REPORTS
Trustee Habib wished Village Manager King and the entire Village
Government success in their initiatives and ongoing day to day
challenges in a Pandemic era. Trustee Habib stated that his first year on
the Board has been a tremendous learning experience and hopes to be
able to keep up with the professionalism of what has transpired at every
Board meeting, this is a challenging, rewarding and humble small act of
public service and thanked everyone on the Board and staff and wants
everyone to know that we will do our best to represent the residents in
the proper manner in 2021. Trustee Habib advised that the “Diversity
and Inclusion Committee” will be holding an event in February as well as
in January and directed everyone to the Village’s web site for more
information.
Trustee Horowitz advised that she and Trustee Habib are both liaisons to
the “Diversity and Inclusion Committee” and the January 12 th event will
be about “affective communications” via Zoom at 7:00pm. Trustee
Horowitz commended the “Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee” on an
outstanding Report and for the great work they do and looks forward to
discussing it.
Trustee Gallelli wished everyone a happy New Year and looks forward to
working with the Board and the Administration on the many projects that
we have ahead of us. Trustee Gallelli advised that the Planning Board is
extremely busy as well, their time is heavily involved with examining the
proposed “Hudson National” Application for a “Solar Array” and, as of
tonight, they will be dealing with the “Site Plan” Application for 25 S.
Riverside Avenue. Trustee Gallelli advised that the “Fire Council” is
working on an appropriate way to hold a ceremony for the swearing in of
their Chiefs. Trustee Gallelli advised that the “Waterfront Advisory
Council”, which monitors consistency with our “Local Waterfront
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 19

Revitalization Plan”, is meeting this week and looking at several
applications for consistency including a possible “Solar Array” at the train
station as well as ‘Hudson National Golf Course”. Trustee Gallelli advised
that the Village Blood Bank, the Westchester County Blood Bank and the
Croton on Hudson Blood Bank have come together and will be holding
Saturday morning Blood Drives every Saturday at the Municipal Building
from 10am-4pm.
Trustee Simon thanked the Public Works Department for removing a tree
outside of his home that was completely blocking Old Post Road North
the evening of December 24 th; the Public Works Department had been
working on down trees during the early morning hours on Christmas Eve
and on Christmas morning and they deserve all of our thanks. Trustee
Simon welcomed our new District Attorney and new Congressman Jones
who has also been appointed to the “House Judiciary Committee”; we
also look forward to speaking with him about new funding for local
governments for Police training and technology and things of that nature.
Trustee Simon thanked the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee for an
outstanding report, it is very comprehensive and has a lot of great data
incorporated into the report. Trustee Simon wished everyone a happy
New Year and encouraged everyone to donate blood.
Mayor Pugh made the following appointments:
Diversity & Inclusion Committee
Michael Mui
Jessica Ganus
Amy Melman
Jessa Mittelman
Tsui Pappas
Recreation Advisory Committee
Maria Slippen, Chair
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:23pm
Respectfully submitted,
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 4, 2021
Page 20

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

20

