APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, November 24th, 2020
Roll Call: P. Dinkler (150), J. Munson (221), D. Bennett (506), J. O’Leary (231), M. Feminella
(162), J. Streany (275), H. Lockwood (210), D. Vlad (318), W. Skiba (267), W. Cerrato (128), K.
Goldstein (576), A. Conti (135)
Department Members: G. Tucci (284)
Excused: J. Karpoff (487), R. Cusano (141)
Meeting Called to Order by President Dinkler at 20:00: with the Pledge of Allegiance
and a Moment of Silence for Deceased Members.
Special Orders of Business:

None

Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
approve the October 2020 Minutes – CARRIED.

Motion D. Bennett / 2nd J. Streany to

Bills and Communications:









Letter received from Columbian Hook & Ladder Co. #1 reporting Paul Rolnick has
transferred from Active to Social Member status.
Letter received from Columbian Hook & Ladder Co. #1 reporting Charles
Nikitopoulos has resigned as a member in Good Standing.
Letter received from Columbian Hook & Ladder Co. #1 listing nomination of Officers
for 2021.
Letter received from Washington Engine Co. #2 listing nomination of Officers for
2021.
Letter received from Washington Engine Co. #2 reporting Matt Stewart has
transferred from Active to Social Member status.
Letter received from Croton Fire Patrol No. 1 listing nomination of Officers for 2021.
Letter of appreciation received from John Roper for department’s efforts
extinguishing a fire at his property on July 25, 2020.
Check received from Town of Cortlandt for First Responders Golf Tournament in the
amount of $325.00.

Reports of the Chiefs
P. Dinkler (2081)
- COVID is coming back and every member needs to be careful and take precautions. Masks
should be worn in the firehouses (per Village’s recent law) and anytime in apparatus or near
others. Members that are sick/symptomatic are asked not to come around.
- All Companies are asked to begin using virtual means to hold Company meetings. Likewise,
the Fire Council will be switching to virtual meetings beginning next month.
- Department Elections will be held in the Apparatus Bay of Harmon Firehouse. Only the
Company Secretaries, Voting Machine Operator and the member voting will be allowed in this
area, all others will wait in other parts of firehouse or outside.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, November 24th, 2020
J. Munson (2082)
- E119 & R18 will go out for some scheduled work soon. Otherwise all repairs are up to date.
- New portable radios in service on all apparatus except E118 (coming soon). The green
portables are for the driver and crew, the black portables are for the Officer.
- Pager testing was done and the only solution to provide our best coverage is to be dispatched
using two transmitters. Likewise, the House Sirens will continue to sound 24/7 until pager
activation issue is corrected.
- Please wear a face mask when entering a building on fire calls when not using SCBA.
Likewise, wear a mask in the apparatus and on scene / at drills as well to prevent spread of
COVID-19.
- We have been doing weekly department training and plan to continue doing so provided the
virus spread doesn’t cause it to stop. Alternate, online offerings are being worked on as a
precaution. The attendance could be better, especially with Line Officers whom should be
setting an example for their membership.
Special Reports – None.
Reports of Committees
Fund Drive – Report from T. Dinkler submitted.
Investigation Committee – D. Bennett & M. Feminella report committee is reviewing
nominees’ qualifications.
LOSAP – T. Dinkler reports proclamation to award members five points per month during the
pandemic is in village’s hands awaiting approval. He also asked all to remember to turn in
paperwork often to keep things up to date. Be sure to properly indicate a drill vs. training when
completing paperwork.
Holidays – J. Munson reports he spoke to several members who feel the annual Candy Cane
Run and Kids’ Holiday Party should be cancelled this year. Instead, we will hold a Holiday
Parade through our district on 12/19/2020 at 6pm.
Unfinished Business:
- J. Streany requests a vote on proposed changes to Articles 2 and 3 that were sent to the
Companies to review. Motion W. Skiba / 2nd D. Bennett to approve changes to Articles 2 and 3
– CARRIED (9 Yay, 2 Nay votes)
- Discussion on the Ladder Company’s decision as to grant their 2019 Officers credit for their
time served based on Investigation Committee’s finding that all were not qualified per their
Company’s By-Laws, W. Skiba reports the Company felt they deserved credit and the issue is
closed.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, November 24th, 2020
New Business:
- D. Bennett reports Chemical Engine has tried repeatedly to notify K. Cooper and J. Scutari that
they were dropped as members in Bad Standing, and have been unsuccessful getting Company
and Department property back. P. Dinkler instructed Secretary to send certified letter
requesting items to be returned.
- D. Holder reports physicals scheduled for Sunday 12/13/2020 at Harmon Firehouse 9-12.
- J. Streany requests a list of members not eligible to vote be created, P. Dinkler will contact
Department Secretary.
- D. Vlad reports heat not working properly at Harmon Firehouse, J. Karpoff has been notified.
- D. Vlad reports the CEMS Explorer Post Blood Drive held recently was a success and thanked
them for their efforts – as well as cleaning the firehouse afterwards.
- D. Vlad reports William C. Vlad has been nominated for Captain and Pat Calcutti has been
nominated for Engineer of Engine 120.
Treasurer’s Report:
P. Dinkler reports $66,851.16 in our account. Motion J. Munson/2nd W. Skiba to accept report –
CARRIED.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad/2nd J. O’Leary - CARRIED

Meeting Adjourned at 20:49
Officer Nominations as of 11/24/2020
Chemical Engine Company No. 1
Captain – David Altamura
1st Lieutenant – Daniel Bennett
2nd Lieutenant – Tom Mosler
Engineer E118 – Chris Sarcone

Columbian Hook & Ladder Company No. 1
Captain – Dave Kempter
1st Lieutenant – Tom Kaplan
2nd Lieutenant – Chris Caterino
Engineer TL44 – Rocco Cusano

Washington Engine Company No. 2
Captain – Joe Kempter
1st Lieutenant – Chris Colombo
2nd Lieutenant – Chris Colombo Jr.
Engineer E119 – David Rinaldi
Engineer T10 – Bill Gallagher
Engineer U14 – Andrew Grant

Croton Fire Patrol No. 1
Captain – John Ghegan
2nd Lieutenant – Babak Ghezelayagh
Engineer R18 – Kim Russell-Goldstein

Harmon Engine Company No. 3
Captain – William C. Vlad
Engineer E120 – Patrick Calcutti

Minutes Respectfully Submitted By John Munson, Council Secretary on 11/25/2020.

