Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
December 16, 2020
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Matthew Arnold,
Daniel Castner, Ariadne Green, Edward Hadad, Robert Olsson, Police Chief John Nikitopoulos,
Mayor Brian Pugh, Trustee Len Simon
I. Approval of November 2020 Minutes
II. Discussion with Croton Police Chief Nikitopoulos on Pedestrian/Bike Safety
General Discussion/Thoughts
The Chief has looked at the PIE plan. He wants to take more time to review many of the
proposals in the plan. “I will look into and make comments on your plan.” He is a cyclist himself.
He is well aware the number one traffic complaint in the Village is motorists speeding. The
numbers of citations are down because of Covid. Police are out patrolling. Their focus is near
schools during school time. They are issuing more tickets in the Village now vs. Rt 9 in the past.
They issue a lot of warnings, go to CET and give a bike presentation. Regarding cycling, he
sees adults breaking rules just as much as kids. Sometimes police put out dummy cars, radar
posts. Summons are not the end all, but we have to do it. For a first offense, they often do give
warnings. Officers have discretion.
Maple Street
Matt Schuerman asked about Maple Street and remarked there seems to be a lot of speeders,
especially near PVC. Chief Nikitopoulos said that sometimes observers may think cars are
going faster than they are in reality, but as an added measure he will increase the use of a
dummy car on Maple. “Absolutely I’ll do that.”
Dummy Light
The Chief would like to research this intersection more, but is reticent to make it a flashing red
with stop signs. He claimed it was flashing a number of years ago and felt many cars blew
through it instead of making a full stop.
CPA / MTA Trucks in Front of Deli
Daniel Castner asked about the new CPA and the issue of trucks parking in the new bike lane in
front of Giovanni’s deli. When the train station traffic ramps up again, will parking tickets be
enforced? The Chief remarked he is concerned about numerous facets of CPA. He is concerned
about bicyclists going through what will be new red lights, especially crossing the Rt 9 exit ramp.

And he is aware of the issue of trucks parking in front of the deli. “Once the lights go up. We will
have to monitor that and enforce that. We might have to start getting compliance.”
25 MPH Limits
Chief: I don’t think it was effective at first, but with enforcement there, I think it is now more
effective. We have more patrols there. I think this combo has slowed things down. It takes
people some time to get used to it.
New Phase of Slow Down Croton Public Safety Campaign
Independent of the BPC, the Chief was also taking steps to jumpstart the Slow Down Croton
campaign. He had tasked some of his younger officers with brainstorming ideas of public
education / safety plan. In a normal year, they give presentations at CET and PVC. This plan
could entail more rigorous enforcement, but with a public awareness component so that
residents are not blindsided. He suggests we can have another conversation about this with him
and/or the Sergeant he has tasked with this project. It would be “great to combine forces.”
III. Approval of BPC Master Plan - The plan will now go to the Board of Trustees for review.
IV. Update on Public Safety Campaign/Slow Down Croton Phase 2
“Slow Down Croton. Do your part,” was agreed to be the new campaign language.
Len Simon suggested building off the old design with new colors. He also suggested that the
Rotary Club has a budget for community investment etc. And they might even do some
fundraising if they got excited about it. Or the revived Croton Business Council
Next steps: we need to determine: what is the strategy, timeline (by May 2021?), possible
sponsors, channels and components of the campaign, a new logo (ask Tom Smith to
redesign?), other collateral such as lawn signs. Matt Arnold, Robert Olsson, Marc Albrecht, and
Erik Ferguson, would work together to try to create a one-pager proposal document in time for
the next meeting.
V. Scheduled Future Meeting/Elections of Chairperson for January 20.

