MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Jan. 24, 2021 – via Zoom.us

Members Attending:                                           Absent:
Lindsay Audin             Joel Gingold
Len Simon                 Niall Kelleher
Brian Pugh                Bernie Yozwiak
Jon Katz                  Dan Columbini

[Bracketed] text indicates subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a commitment.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guest(s): none

Announcements:
 Reminder to complete two required online courses (workplace violence, sexual harassment).
 On Dec. 7, Mayor Pugh announced that John Habib has been re-assigned to another committee.

 Croton’s carbon mitigation efforts will soon be featured in two publications. The first is a press
 release from Ecogy focusing on the successful startup of the DPW rooftop solar job. The second is
 an article to be published in late winter by the Hudson Valley Regional Council (HVRC) in its first
 Clean Energy Community (CEC) newsletter. HVRC manages the CEC and CSC programs in our
 area under a NYSERDA contract. The article will highlight the DPW job and some of our other
 successes, e.g., Croton has secured the most CEC action points of any entity in the State.

Quick updates/holdovers/follow-ups/status:

- Solar projects:
      Train station parking lot canopy: The Village is almost finished its lease negotiations with
 SolSystems (“Sol”). At its Dec. 21 meeting, the Village Board established itself as the Lead Agency
 for SEQRA review. The matter was referred to the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) which
 ruled Jan. 6 that it was consistent with the Waterfront Revitalization Program. To expedite the
 process for securing feeder capacity, Sol submitted its interconnection application. [Janine
 scheduled the lease presentation to the VB for Feb. 17.]

 With the passage of the COVID relief bill, the 26% Investment Tax Credit (ITC) was extended for 2
 years. That significantly (~$50K-$100K) increased the potential annual rent from the project, and
 adds impetus for other local solar projects. On the other hand, some developer $ incentives have
 recently become iffy, which may reduce potential rent. [Jon checked the details on Jan. 25 and
 responded: “Community Credit developer incentives are dwindling, and depending on the timing of
 a project, might vanish, and it’s unknown what will replace that incentive.”]

 Regarding the 5-MW Borrego Solar battery project in Ossining, Bernie sat in on the Dec. 16
 Ossining Town Planning Board meeting on it. See his memo (sent to committee members on Dec.
 27) at the end of these minutes. While it turns out Borrego got its CESIR app in before ours, Sol
 believes the feeder competition issue may not be as dire as Ecogy had predicted. A review of a
 map of feeder locations and capacities appears to bear out Sol’s position. We won’t know which is
 correct until Con Ed rules on Sol’s application, which may not occur until March.

                                                  1
Due to recent changes in community solar (CS) rules, the Village government now has the option
to subscribe to up to 40% of the system’s output. If it attains Sol’s projected 4,753 kWp (~4,000
kWac), the Village need only subscribe for ~30% (~1,300 kW) to cover all of its annual municipal
kWh usage. The annual CS credits may amount to another ~$25,000 a year. We may also be able
to get a one-time customer acquisition fee of $26,000 (maybe more). Once the lease agreement is
in place, those options should be explored.

    Croton Landing canopy: To overcome the “alienation” legal issue that presently blocks that
project, multiple efforts were pursued to eliminate it via State legislation. [The bill to overcome it
was re-introduced into the State Senate as S.2995. A companion bill is soon to be introduced into
the Assembly by Assembly rep Carrie Woerner of Saratoga Springs.]

    - On Dec. 17, Dan Welsh agreed to raise it at the January SW executive board meeting. He
also introduced the bill to Chris Burdick (Assembly rep for the 93rd District, on the east side of the
County) and his legislative aide. Dan says “I expect they will come out in support”.

    - A similar request was sent on Dec. 19 to Anilla Cherian at the HVRC. She is the local liaison
to help municipalities with renewable energy projects. She was eager until learning that NYSERDA
said it could not be involved in lobbying. Nevertheless, she was open to helping us gin up support
from participants in the CEC and CSC programs.

    - On Dec. 29, Lindsay spoke with Camilla Calhoun, of the Westchester chapter of the League
of Women Voters (LWV). She in turn communicated the problem to Susan Schwartz and Marcia
Brewster (who sit on LWV’s State Board) to elicit their assistance. They also raised it with
Assemblyman Tom Abinati (92nd district, lower Westchester).

     - The issue was also raised in a Jan. 14 zoom sponsored by Federated Conservationists, Saw
Mill River Audubon, and others which reviewed “Solar Siting Issues in Westchester”. Sierra Club’s
Atlantic Chapter also agreed to assist.

     - On Jan. 20, Midge Iorio of Bedford 2030 called about solar canopies in her town parks’
parking lots. She was told to contact her State reps on the alienation issue, or look elsewhere to
site canopies. We sent her the list of solar contractors that showed interest in the train station job.

- Other local solar:

      National Golf Course Matrix Solar Array Project: Regarding the proposed 1.8 MWp ground-
mounted system, Bruce Kauderer, chair of the Village’s Planning Board and the WAC, inquired as
to its economics and what financial benefit the Village may get from it. In early December, CAC
members did a walk-through to assess the impact of removing ~500 trees (> 4” diameter) on the 7
acres to be cleared (2 acres will be covered by panels). CAC was going to seek a one-time
payment from the developer to cover planting of 2,000 trees elsewhere in Croton, but deferred to
the Planning Board’s efforts to secure an equivalent payment as part of its approach. While
discussing the issues, Brian pointed out that Matrix/National will need to deal with many time-
consuming regulatory actions before the project could be authorized by the Village Board.

     Croton Houses of Worship (HoW): Bernie secured a contact list for 6 of them. He also spoke
with Nina Orville of SW, who got 6 Presbyterian churches to install rooftop panels in the County. In
                                                   2
 Croton, Temple Israel’s roof already has panels. It has its own active committee on energy issues
 and was not interested in participating in a group program. However, none of the 6 have solar
 canopies over their parking lots. As part of a State-supported $10M study of EEMs that included
 Westchester area HoWs, a community development group (Metro IAF) had previously promoted
 heat pumps (HP) to the group. Liza McCarthy of C100 had brought in Block Power, an energy
 developer, to make the pitch, but there were no takers. Lindsay had reviewed the HP proposals for
 both HNM and another HoW in Westchester, but their ~$500K+ price tags were non-starters.

 Bernie agreed to do a googlemaps “flyover” to assess the potential solar square footage, and
 multiply the result by ~15 watts/SF. If he finds that at least 300 kW of capacity could be cobbled
 together, there may be a basis for contacting some solar developers. Anything much less would be
 unlikely to interest them.

- EV/EVSE:

 - EV charger tax credit extended: In the COVID deal, the 30% fed. tax credit now goes to 12/31/21.

 - School bus electrification: At the school district task force’s Dec. 21 zoom, Lindsay presented a
 no-cost plan for EV charging infrastructure at the bus depot. A 5-minute video tour of the depot
 may be found at https://ensemble.lhric.org/hapi/v1/contents/permalinks/La37Qpf2/view. The task
 force’s next (and last) zoom is Jan. 28. Bernie and Lindsay had a Dec. 22 zoom with Siemens
 Corp. regarding its chargers for large vehicles. Bernie has been collecting charger data from other
 sources that will help us evaluate such options for our municipal vehicles.
 On Dec. 30, additional State voucher money was allocated to school buses serving “disadvantaged
 communities” (Croton is not one): https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-cuomo-announces-
 initiatives-electrify-transit-buses-boosting-access-clean
 On Jan. 8, NYSERDA posted new voucher values for trucks and buses at
 https://www.nyserda.ny.gov/All-Programs/Programs/Truck-Voucher-Program/How-the-Program-
 Works/Funding-Amounts. Vouchers for Class 7 (the largest) school buses are now capped at
 $200,000 (prior cap was $110,000). A standard new diesel costs ~$110, 000. Depending on the
 cost of an EV version (~$400,000), up to 100% of the difference (to the maximum voucher value)
 would leave ~$90,000 extra to be paid by the district. The cost for charging infrastructure for a full-
 sized bus would be additional.
 - Municipal EVs: On Dec. 16, DPW Director Frank Balbi provided data on the Village’s trucks. The
 bottom line is that our needs are a few years ahead of the economically available technology. More
 details appear in a memo at the end of these minutes. Frank was open to reviewing data and test
 driving an EV truck, but expressed concerns on repairs, range on our hills, on cold days, etc.
 Vouchers for Class 8 trucks (e.g., sanitation) were recently capped at $185,000. At present, that
 would leave a differential of at least $130,000 over the cost of a new diesel version. DCFC
 charging would be needed, the cost of which would be additional, and significant.
 - Data on DCFC connectors: Niall produced an excellent overview of the different DC fast charger
 (DCFC) connectors, which range from 50 to 350 kW. While early EVs (other than Tesla) could not
 use them, many EVs produced after 2017 do so. While costing 10X-15X more than Level 2
 chargers, they are ideal for fast charging of trucks and buses. Niall’s memo will be discussed at our
 Feb. 28 zoom, and will be attached to its minutes.

                                                   3
- Food scrap recycling program:

 Due to Village budget issues and the ongoing uncertainties regarding the COVID pandemic, Brian
 discussed the project with Janine. They concluded that it would be best to postpone the project
 until 2022. Our grant is good until Oct. 2022. If needed, DEC is likely to allow an extension due to
 COVID’s impacts.

 Joel and Lindsay had been re-designing the program, e.g., moving the site to a corner of the train
 station parking lot as Brian suggested, to deal with COVID issues. Hopefully, we can again call
 upon Rob Abbot (retired management consultant and food scrap recycler) and Donna O’Malley
 (one of the early proponents of the program) to help run the program, which may start April 2022.

 In a Jan. 5 zoom with County officials and Catherine Borgia (our County Legislator) on the option to
 use the Cortlandt SMM composting site instead of the Ulster County site, all agreed that taking
 scraps to Cortlandt minimized diesel truck GHG. However, several limiting factors exist:

     - SMM has a smaller capacity than Ulster (5,000 vs 10,000 cubic yards/year). Ulster also
 recently applied for a large expansion. Depending on a variety of factors, it’s possible that larger
 communities and/or scrap sources (e.g., supermarkets) may at some point contract for SMM’s
 capacity, locking out the County (and/or Croton) from using it. Such already occurred with the
 Quantum BioPower methane digester in Conn., which primarily serves the Whole Foods chain.
 Our program’s 6-month operation might produce a total of ~50 cu. yds., so we’re a teeny player.

     - Routing also comes into play. About the best outcome may be a southern County route to
 Ulster, and a northern County route that goes to SMM. That option has not yet been determined,
 and is up to the carter (Suburban Carting).

 Because of these variables, the only way Croton could be assured that its scrap would go to SMM
 would be to use its own carter, which would cost an extra ~$7K/yr. Hopefully, that issue will also be
 sorted out before initiating our program.

- HPWH project:
 - As part of his high school community service requirement, Jon Katz’s son (Steven) did a web
 search for graphics in others’ HPWH flyers that we could borrow for our own use. He provided 6
 pages of graphic subjects for our use and pulled images from several of them for our use. We
 appreciate his efforts, and thank Jon for “volunteering” Steven for that work.

 - Dan reviewed the option for incorporating heat trap piping (see photo at
 right) into our HPWH spec to cut standby heat loss from thermo-
 siphoning of tank heat when no water is being used. He concluded that
 the extra piping cost was minimal and suggested that an anti-siphoning
 nipple (a check valve located at the dielectric joint between the hot water
 line and the heater) would also be a good idea. It would cut heat loss, as
 it would remain closed when no hot water was flowing, helping to trap
 heat in the water heater. At ~$10, it would be an additional cost-effective
 way to cut backflow. Dan agreed to provide a short memo on those
 options for inclusion in our Feb. zoom minutes.

                                                   4
 Committee members had earlier provided useful input on a first draft of the HPWH flyer/handout.
 Lindsay will update it with the new graphics and text for committee review prior to our Feb. zoom.

 - We discussed some details on NYSERDA’s new CEC grant program (its “Leadership Round”)
 during a recent zoom, but full details (e.g., $) are not yet available. [Program details were
 announced Jan. 26. Based on a quick review of its rules, Croton should be eligible for a $70K
 grant, with no requirement for matching funds.] SW’s heat pump program is still under
 development. Both are needed to support and coordinate with our project.

 Several excellent ideas on configuring the program arose during the discussion. They could help
 overcome two dilemmas that often confront us when seeking grants: NYSERDA wants a focus on
 municipal (not community) GHG reduction, while private funding seeks activities that benefit the
 overall community, not just a specific constituency (e.g., a single municipality’s GHG footprint).

 While separate grant applications could be created that comply with each’s desires, we might “kill 2
 birds with one stone” by seeking funding to install HPWH in all 5 municipal buildings and instrument
 each (with electric and water sub-meters) to quantify usage and savings. That data would be part
 of a study that shows measured results, instead of the projected / modeled / stipulated numbers
 presently seen in others’ studies. Doing so would lend credibility to the technology regardless of
 user type or site. It would cut GHG from DHW use in our buildings at little or no cost to Croton.

 To expand the data, we could include one or two similar installations in homes. Bernie has
 previously expressed interest in being a “guinea pig” and meter reader for a HPWH in his home,
 which uses oil to heat DHW. The actual work of promoting HPWH installations HPWH (e.g., survey,
 flyers, etc.) would be “folded into” the research grant application. Lindsay will flesh that out in a
 revised program description for distribution before our Feb. zoom,

Reports:

- Lindsay summarized a Jan. 13 zoom Len set up with the Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) in
  Colorado to follow up on options for grant assistance. RMI was one of two recipients of funding
  from the Bezos Fund. The other was the World Resources Institute (WRI). Len will follow up with
  WRI to the same end. We learned that RMI cannot provide direct financial assistance to an end
  user, and we’re already ahead of the technical assistance it offered. RMI agreed to have its grant
  development people guide us on grant options. Len and Lindsay will follow up on that discussion.

 Len reviewed the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation as another possible $ source. He concluded
 that a “letter of inquiry” would be the best way to sound it out on financial support. Len will draft it
 and mention the HPWH project as an example of our pending work.

 Joel told us of his efforts to track down a possible intern via the EnergyCorps, a division of
 AmeriCorps (the domestic version of the Peace Corps). He found that the maze of agencies
 involved made it difficult to determine if this was a real option. Lindsay will put him in touch with
 Sustainable Hudson Valley which navigated to secure an EnergyCorps person. [This turned out to
 be an odd coincidence of agency names. There are no EnergyCorps personnel available to us.]

 To the same end, Jon pointed out how high school kids were having a hard time finding community
 service projects (which they must do to graduate) such that we might get some help from them. [He
                                                    5
 subsequently queried two members of the school’s Guidance Dept. for assistance on the option.
 Doing so has so far – 1/31/21 – elicited 4 positive responses from interested students.] Bernie
 agreed to check with the Boy Scouts, and Dan agreed to review Handshake, a web-based program
 that connects potential interns with possible assignments.

Communications:
- NYPA’s renewable power offer is still “pending”. In April, it will be a year since it was first made.
- The Westchester chapter of the LWV is sponsoring an April 7 panel on how local governments
  could start or improve participation in the CEC and CSC programs. Lindsay will represent Croton.
- Sustainable Hudson Valley asked for help on a study its doing on EV infrastructure.
- Bedford 2030 asked for help on developing solar canopy projects.
- Discussions with the school district on specs for its upcoming LED lighting work informed us of
  technical requirements imposed on it by the State’s Education Dept. regarding the type of LED
  retrofit that will be partially funded by that Department.

Recruitment/Outreach: see “Communications”.

New business / other events: None were raised.


Date for our next Zoom meeting: Feb. 28, 2021, Sunday, 10:30 AM




                                                     6
Memo from Bernie Yozwiak on the proposed 5 MW battery near St. Augustine Church in Ossining


I attended the on-line Town of Ossining Zoom meeting on Wednesday December 16, 2020 at which
the Battery System proposed for the St. Augustine site was discussed.
1.     The developer, Borrego, had 2 representatives at the meeting. They had just submitted
documents that the Town had asked for that day, so no town officials or the public had an opportunity
to review the submissions.
2.    Discussion of the project was added to the next Town of Ossining public hearing/meeting
scheduled for Jan. 22, 2021. Link to be published on their web site. I got the sense that they intend
to approve the project at that meeting.
3.    There were perhaps 10 questions raised by the public who were on the Zoom. The vast
majority were from Mystic Point residents who were concerned about operating noise, construction
trucks, sight issues, and fire protection issues.
4.    Since I had not previously reviewed the information that is posted on their web site regarding
the project, I only asked a couple general questions. The capacity is 5 MW to be run for 4 hours.
The footprint was roughly 30 feet x 60 feet. The weight of the system will be 134 tons.
5.    No geo-technic borings or reports have been done yet, so the structural design is not done.
6.     There were a few questions on fire suppression by me and others. The developer noted that
the layout is modular, with the overall capacity being installed in separate cubicles that each have
their own monitoring and fire suppression systems so that a catastrophic event is unlikely. (My
words.) No one asked about gases being emitted in the event of a fire.
7.    The project is to last for 25 years. The developers expect to replace the batteries at various
times and to cycle through 2 battery lives during the 25 years.
8.    There will be a connection to the Con Ed grid along Route 9 with the cables from the batteries
running underground from battery lineup.
9.   The company mentioned that they have 2 installations either running or in the process with
Orange and Rockland that are solar + battery systems. This is their first battery-only system.
10. They at first said that this was the first such system to their knowledge installed in Westchester,
then later said that there was one standalone battery system “by Staples in Yorktown”. (I could not
find any reference to that when I looked online.)
Bernie also provided a PDF description provided by Borrego. It was attached to the email sent to
committee members on Dec. 27.




                                                    7
Memo on EV municipal trucks based on discussions with DPW director Frank Balbi – 12/30/20

- Ford F150 pickup trucks lack the power necessary for snow plowing, towing, and other heavy
  loads. While an EV F150 may be available later this year, it would not be useful to the Village. We
  will need to wait for electric versions of the F250 to F550 to make such replacements.
- Regarding sanitation trucks (the preferred term for garbage trucks), we have 6, of which any 3 are
  in use on a given day. The others are kept as backups and/or other uses. Two are used 4 times a
  week, and one is used twice a week. While all are International brand, all use Leach bodies. This
  may be an issue because some (possibly all) EV versions instead use Heil bodies.
- A typical daily truck run is roughly 100 miles, ~20 of which are the round trip to the Charles Point
  incinerator. EV units have 100-mile ranges, unless larger batteries are installed, which significantly
  boosts their prices. To be safe, we would need a range of ~150 miles to account for loss of battery
  capacity on very cold days and/or extra heavy loads. There are no plug-in hybrid versions that
  could also use diesel or gasoline, nor are any expected.
- A new diesel sanitation truck costs about $225K. One existing unit is slated for retirement, but not
  budgeted in the coming year. Our prior research found that an EV version may cost at least
  ~$540K (though prices are dropping as batteries become cheaper). While NYSERDA truck
  vouchers would cover 80% of the difference, that would still leave an extra ~$63K over the cost of
  a new diesel unit, not including the high cost of a DC fast charger and its installation.
- While there’s no maintenance cost data specific to the sanitation trucks, Frank offered $21K per
  year per truck as an estimate. Most of that might be saved by an EV, but it’s not a deal maker.
In a November zoom with one of the few suppliers of electric sanitation trucks, Lindsay learned the
following. BYD, an international Chinese company with truck and bus production facilities in
Lancaster, California, offers a Class 7 rear-loading unit (roughly the same as our existing trucks) with
a standard range of 80+ miles. Longer ranges may be available by special order. Its standard side
loading version gets only 60+ miles. Both units use lithium iron phosphate batteries that have a lower
energy density than lithium-ion units but are much less prone to fire. BYD’s core business is battery
production, with vehicle production an offshoot thereof.
Both units have very large batteries: the rear loader holds 280 kWh while the 430 HP side-loader
holds 295 kWh. Each vehicle (on average) consumes ~5 kWh/mile (which assumes 8 hours of trash
collection). An EV school bus consumes ~2 kWh/mile, and a typical EV sedan may consume .3
kWh/mile. BYD rear loaders utilize a proprietary DCFC charging receptacle, but can also use any 40
kW or 150 kW CCS1 charge connector (common for DCFC charging) such as the ChargePoint CPE
250. Side loaders can charge at 40 kW AC or 120 kW DC.
The rear loader has a 25 cubic yard capacity (same as our existing units) and can be mated with
truck bodies from Heil, Leach, or NewWay. Frank indicated that all our existing sanitation trucks use
Leach bodies. At present, the only nearby repair facility (Milea Truck Sales in Elmsford) servicing
BYD trucks handles only Heil body parts.
At ~2 miles/gallon of diesel fuel, a sanitation truck running ~100 miles a day for 250 days/yr,
consuming ~5 kWh/mile of utility power at ~.7 lb/kWh of CO2e may cut carbon emissions by ~85
MT/yr. That’s roughly the same annual carbon reduction as 30 EV sedans.



                                                    8
