Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, February 1, 2021 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 2020-2021
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 50 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$64,719.34
$9,572.96
$167.09
$176,226.30
-

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
1.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a. Letter from John Clark of “Hudson River Recreation” dated January 23,
2021, expressing interest in continuing the operation of a recreational
kayak program at “Echo Canoe Launch”.
Village Manager King suggested that the Board discuss this in one of
the March work sessions.
b. Email from Toni Senecal Shea, Chair of the “Croton Business Council”
dated January 28, 2021, requesting permission to use “Senasqua Park”
for “Saturday Sunsets at Senasqua” beginning in March through
October.
Village Manager King stated that if the Board wants to entertain this,
she believes the vendors will have to share in the costs of renting
porta-potties since we do not open bathrooms this early in the season
and since we do not hire a “Gate Guard” until after Memorial Day the

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 2

Board needs to decide if we are going to open it up to the public just
for this purpose or keep it to residents only.
Mayor Pugh stated that we should pass on all costs to the vendors and
since this is starting in March, he does not think it will be overwhelming
and is open to allowing non-residents, since we do it for our summer
concerts. Mayor Pugh suggested allowing it on an experimental basis
for March-April-May and then revisit it.
Trustee Simon stated that Ms. Senecal, in her email, does acknowledge
that any additional expenses the government incurs will be paid for by
each participating company.
Trustee Gallelli suggested that the Manager speak with Ms. Senecal to
work out the details with respect to what needs to be paid for and
whether or not March is the best time to start.
Village Manager King asked if the Board wants them to just cover our
costs or should they pay the “Vendor” fee.
Mayor Pugh supports the standard “Vendor” fee and then any
additional costs on top of that fee.
Village Manager King said that she will come back with a
recommendation on fees at our next meeting so that the Board can
vote on it.
2. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Naomi Marrow and Adriana Pentz on behalf of “Mom’s Demand Action”,
thanked the Board for supporting “National Gun Violence Survivors
Week” and encouraged the Board to pass the Proclamation on the
agenda this evening.
3. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #14 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 3

WHEREAS the COVID-19 pandemic has been impacting the Village since March
2020; and
WHEREAS the federal government declared a nationwide emergency on March 13,
2020, allowing local government entities to apply for public assistance
reimbursements; and
WHEREAS these reimbursements cover costs such as personal protective
equipment (PPE) and technology needed for employees to work from home; and
WHEREAS, Village Clerk Paula DiSanto has been working with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Homeland Security
and Emergency Services (DHSES) in securing these reimbursements; and
WHEREAS, on January 22, 2021, the Village received a payment in the amount of
$12,002.84,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
accept these funds as revenue in the 2020-2021 General Fund Budget in the
amount of $12,002.84 as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE (Increase)
A1000.4960
FEMA

$12,002.84

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon asked if we anticipate additional invoices going to the State.
Village Manager King stated that this represents March-April-May invoices, they
have submitted more, but she does not count on anything from “FEMA” until we
actually receive it.
Resolution #15 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village is desirous of replacing the existing Engine 118, which has 25
years of service for the Croton-on-Hudson Volunteer Fire Department; and
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 4

WHEREAS, on December 17, 2018, the Village awarded the bid for one 2018 Triple
Combination Pumper (Bid #06-2018) to Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the amount of $829,885; and
WHEREAS continuing discussions with the manufacturer has led to Change Order 10
being drafted; and
WHEREAS this is the 14th change order to date on this purchase and will result in no
price change to the Village,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to sign Change Order 10 with Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment
of Islandia, New York.
Resolution #16 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been working with Sol Systems of
Washington, DC, to draft a lease agreement for the installation of solar canopies at
the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot; and
WHEREAS, on December 21, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes in relation to the lease agreement; and
WHEREAS, on January 19, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process
and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the EAF “Determination of
Significance” attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions; and
WHEREAS, on January 19, 2021, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 5

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues
and adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto,
and adopts a Negative Declaration pursuant to SEQRA in connection with this
action,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees found the following LWRP policies to be applicable and
finds the Proposed Action to be consistent with each of these applicable policies:
Policy 1: Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and underutilized
waterfront areas for commercial, industrial, cultural, recreational and other
compatible uses.
Policy 1B: Redevelop and revitalize Village owned land at the Metro North Train
Station, including Village garage and bay area. Encourage integrated development
of Village property to assure fulfillment of requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro North Train Station, while facilitating public access to bay
area and recreational use.
Policy 27: Decisions on the siting and construction of major energy facilities in the
coastal area will be based on public energy needs, compatibility of such facilities
with the environment, and the facility's need for a shorefront location.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above
were reviewed and found not to be applicable.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:
Based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its determination that
the Proposed Action, the execution of a lease agreement for solar canopies at the
Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, complies with the policy standards and
conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that this is not an approval of the “Lease” but rather the means
for us to take the regulatory steps to move forward with the Environmental Review.
Resolution #17 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 6

New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS on June 12, 2020, Governor Andrew Cuomo signed Executive Order 203,
requiring local municipalities with police departments to develop a reform plan
based on community input; and
WHEREAS on September 25, 2020, the Village issued a call for volunteers to serve
on a task force for the purposes of developing the aforementioned plan; and
WHEREAS the task force was created with 21 members, including 10 members
chosen from those who submitted applications to serve, and
WHEREAS the task force held a number of public forums for residents to provide
input on the police department, which are available for viewing on the Village
website; and
WHEREAS a survey on the community’s interactions with the police department was
completed by over 300 residents, and
WHEREAS the draft police reform plan that was developed has taken into account
all of the above feedback; and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is required by Executive Order 203 to hold a
public hearing on the plan before moving for its adoption,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, February 22, 2021 at 6 p.m. to hear public
comments on the Police Reform Task Force Plan in accordance with Executive Order
203,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli asked that this be well publicized so that we get a lot of people to
participate.
Mayor Pugh stated that the work done by the “Task Force” is very impressive and
hopes that the community takes advantage of this opportunity to comment on it.
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 7

Trustee Simon stated that the report shows the hard work on the part of all the
individual members of the task force and hopes that many people will participate.
Resolution #18 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS every year, nearly 39,000 Americans are killed in acts of gun violence
and nearly 85,000 more are shot and wounded; and
WHEREAS by early February, more Americans are killed with guns than are killed in
our peer countries in an entire calendar year; and
WHEREAS a gun violence survivor is anyone who has personally experienced gun
violence — whether they have witnessed an act of gun violence, been threatened or
wounded with a gun, or had someone they know and cared for wounded or killed;
and
WHEREAS, forms of gun violence can include, but are not limited to gun suicides,
gun homicides, domestic violence involving a gun, shootings by law enforcement,
and unintentional shootings; and
WHEREAS, 58 percent of American adults, including 68 percent of Black and Latino
Americans, or someone they have cared for, has experienced gun violence in their
lifetime, demonstrating the reach and impact gun violence has in communities
across America; and
WHEREAS firearms are the leading cause of death for children and teens; and
WHEREAS Americans in communities across the nation are working to end the
senseless violence by advocating for common-sense gun safety legislation; and
WHEREAS by commemorating National Gun Violence Survivors Week, February 1 to
February 7, cities and towns across America will raise awareness about gun violence
and honor the lives stolen by gun violence; and
WHEREAS we renew our commitment to reduce gun violence and pledge to do all
we can to keep firearms out of the wrong hands and encourage responsible gun
ownership to help keep our communities safe,
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 8

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York, hereby declares February 1 to February 7, 2021 to be
National Gun Violence Survivors Week; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby encourages all citizens to
support their communities’ efforts to prevent the tragic effects of gun violence and
to honor and value human lives.
4. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
5.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on January 19, 2021 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on January
19, 2021 was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simoni and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on January
25, 2021 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.

6.

REPORTS
Trustee Habib advised that the “Croton Business Council” will be
discussing their upcoming events at their next meeting.
Trustee Horowitz advised that the “Diversity and Inclusion Committee” will
be holding a session on February 10 th about the history of “Black History
Month”; the “Croton Free Library” has recommended readings for the
month of February and the “Conservation Advisory Council” is working on
something called “recyclopedia”, an encyclopedia for all things that can, or
cannot, be recycled!”.
Trustee Gallelli advised that “Eaglefest began last Saturday and will run
virtually through February 7th; she has read the draft “Police Task Force
Plan”, they did a great job and is looking forward to the Public Hearing and
thanked our Department of Public Works for all their hard work clearing
the roads during the snowstorm.
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 9

Trustee Simon advised that last Thursday Assemblywoman Sandy Galef
held a Town Hall meeting updating what is happening in the Assembly and
what to expect with respect to Covid-19, the Governor’s Budget, Indian
Point; revenue raises through Cannabis and sports betting and the
“Parkland Alienation Bill”’; the “Sustainability Committee” has been
awarded a $70,000 grant from “NYSERDA” which will enable them to take
on additional projects; Superintendent Frank Balbi gave him a tour of the
Public Works Department; it is a very impressive facility and was pleased
to see their operations; the “Business Development Council” met last
week and they will be making sure that our businesses have all the
information they need with respect to the “Payroll Protection Program”.
Mayor Pugh made the following appointments:
Allison Rosen
Anthony Magardino
Arda Semiz

Recreation Advisory Committee
Conservation Advisory Council
Trails Committee

Mayor Pugh thanked the Village staff for their help in organizing the Blood
Drives and the community for participating. Mayor Pugh thanked the
Village staff for the information they put out in reference to the storm and
thanked the Department of Public Works, first responders, EMS and
Volunteer Fire Department for their assistance during this storm event.
Mayor Pugh advised that Norma Drummond, “Planning Commissioner for
Westchester County” spoke at the recent “Housing Task Force” meeting
and summarized the County’s “Housing Needs Assessment Report” and
asked Village Attorney Whitehead to give the Board an update.
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that the “Housing Monitor” in
conjunction with the “Federal Housing Lawsuit”, submitted their final
report to the Court, the “Monitor” has found that the County has
substantially complied and recommended that the lawsuit be ended.
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that the “Monitor” recognizes that
after the last report and the “Berenson Analysis” that some changes were
made to “Affordable Housing Laws” which added opportunities for “multifamily” as well as changes to the “Accessory Housing Law”, the only
negative to Croton that was mentioned was that there are not enough
areas where multi-family and accessory apartments are permitted “as of
right”. Village Attorney Whitehead explained that part of the problem is
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 1, 2021
Page 10

that they do not understand that a “Special Permit Use” is actually a
permitted use as long as it meets certain defined conditions; this is
something that both the Village and Westchester County has been trying
to explain to the “Monitor” for many years. Village Attorney Whitehead
advised that the only other point that they made was that we did not
prohibit preference in our “Affordable Housing Law”. Village Attorney
Whitehead explained that we did have discussions on this and decided
that in most cases the funding does not permit preference, but we did not
want to outright prohibit it. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the
Village was not a party to the lawsuit so there is no ability to come after
the Village and the “Monitor” has stated that the County has substantially
complied.
Trustee Simon stated that he has always viewed the “Special Permit” as a
process that you go through to establish certain facts and conditions
rather than a barrier to multi-family housing and asked if the “Monitor”
sees it as a significant barrier.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that they never really understood New
York’s Zoning Law, our office had written letters, we also assisted the
County in writing letters trying to explain it, but under New York Zoning
Law a “Special Permit Use” is deemed a permitted use as long as they
meet the listed criteria or conditions spelled out in the Zoning Code.
Village Manager King advised that we have started holding Budget
Meetings with various departments.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:00pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

10

