Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
January 20, 2021
Members and Guests Present: ​Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Matthew Arnold,
Amos Bloomberg, Daniel Castner, Edward Hadad, Robert Olsson, ​Mayor Brian Pugh
I. Approval of December 2020 Minutes
II. Presentation of Master Plan, Complete Streets, and new slow down program to Board of
Trustees. Mayor Pugh suggested packaging all three. A date, most likely in March, will be
provided.
III. Selection of Board Positions for 2021
a.
​Chairperson​ - Matthew Schuerman was voted in to continue the position for one
more year. All the members present unanimously voted for him and praised the work he
has performed and commitment he has shown the last year.
b. Additional Positions and their duties:
i. ​Secretary​ (minutes): Edward Hadad offered and was voted to continue
ii. Outreach (letters to Gazette): N/A
iii. Policy Coordinators (research): N/A
iv. Data and Design (surveys, schematics): N/A
v. Archivist (maintaining paper archives and GitHub): N/A
vi. Education (work with BOE liaisons on school-related programs/initiatives): N/A
For these remaining positions, it was decided no one person would be designated with a title for
the area of responsibility. We would follow the team or group approach where members could
volunteer for projects they would like to participate in. Matt felt the archivist role might necessitate
a designated person. Amos Bloomberg agreed to coordinate the GitHub activities, but no one
person was designated at this time. We agreed to revisit the responsibilities in the future.
IV. Do Your Part Safety Campaign
A general discussion was held on the benefits/usefulness of creating a pledge as part of the
campaign for members of the community to demonstrate commitment and engage: If we did
include this aspect, it should encompass achievable acts that people would actually do. E.g. “I
pledge to obey the laws.” Or something even softer such as, “I will try to do better when I’m
crossing the street.” It would be an honor system. Would this be virtue signalling? Mayor Pugh felt
virtue signalling gets a bad rap, but is actually quite effective for compliance. Would we give out
cards with shocking statistics? Would we include the pledge in fundraising? It could be used along
with collateral, e.g. “Take a sticker after you take a general pledge to obey the rules and laws.”
Further revisions would be made to the ​One-Page Outline​ and the current ​Schedule
Next steps:
● Matt Schuerman will approach the police department with one page summary
● For engagement and/or fundraising/, Rob can approach Jon Bernard at the Lions Club,
Len Simon for the Rotary Club, Matt for Moms Out Front, the Board of Education can be
handled but Josh Diamond
● Tim Smith will present draft of logo for next meeting

V. South Riverside Development Proposal: The Board of Trustees has approved the special
permit. Amos Bloomberg will look into the public comment period/procedures for the Planning
Board.
Next meeting will be Wednesday Feb 17th

