Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Tuesday, January 19, 2021 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec. to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$100,476.51
$9,821.91
$2,519.57
$14,795.35
$12,731.07

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
Kevin McClone, 2 Stevenson Place, Croton on Hudson, asked why “Hudson
National Golf Club” is allowed to proceed with their solar panels project
when they are in violation of having built an illegal structure and cleared
land for that structure without Village approval. Mr. McClone stated that
he believes it is a Village policy that if a landowner is in violation of Village
Code, no new work can be looked at until all violations are fixed. Mr.
McClone additionally asked if they will be fined for building an illegal
structure.
4. PRESENTATION - Review of the Environment Assessment Form Part II and
the Village’s “Local Waterfront Revitalization Program” policies by the
Village Board to determine consistency related to a lease agreement for a
portion of the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot for the installation
of solar canopies.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that the Village Board is doing
“SEQRA” on the impacts of the Village entering into a ‘Lease” and not for
the use that is being proposed.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 2

Mayor Pugh explained that we did an “RFP” (“Request for Proposal”); and
the strongest candidate has been identified by our “Sustainability
Committee”; the details of the “Lease” are being negotiated at this time
and the final version will be presented to the Board.
SHORT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM PART IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Related to a lease agreement for a portion of the Croton-Harmon Train Station
parking lot for the installation of solar canopies.
Part 2 is to be completed by the Lead Agency.
Answer all of the following questions in Part 2 using the information contained in Part 1 and other
materials submitted by the project sponsor or otherwise available to the reviewer. When answering the
questions, the reviewer should be guided by the concept “Have my responses been reasonable
considering the scale and context of the proposed action?”
No, or
small
impact
may
occur
1.

Will the proposed action create a material con flict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing co mmunity?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an i mp act on the en viron mental characteristics that caused the
establishment of a Critical Environ mental Area (CE A)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse chan ge in the existing level of traffic or
affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walk way?

√

6.

√

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to incorporate
reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy opportunities?

√

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?
b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?

√

8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of i mportant historic,
archaeological, architectural or aesthetic resources?

√

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse chan ge to natural resources (e. g., wetlands,
waterbodies, ground water, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
problems?

√

2

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 3

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to en vironmental resources or hu man health?

LOCAL WATERFRONT REVITALIZATION PROGRAM REVIEW
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore, revitalize, and redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses
Existing planning and zoning documents
should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within
the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned
land at the Metro North Train Station,
including Village garage and bay area.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro North Train
Station, while facilitating public access to
bay area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the
municipality to encourage the mutual
cooperation and exchange of information
between governmental agencies involved
in clean-up of the Croton landfill and
Metro-North lagoon in order to develop
commercial use of resources found in the
coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant
site at the intersection of Route 9A and
Municipal Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power
boats on the Hudson River and Croton
River and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters
that regulate boat traffic such a speed,
turbidity, safety, and mooring and sludge
disposal. Such controls will further
increase the compatibility of power boat

1A

1B

1C

1D

1E
2
2A

WAC RESPONSE

VILLAGE BOARD

Applicable
Yes/No
YES

Consistent
Yes/No
YES

Applicable
Yes/No
YES

Consistent
Yes/No
YES

Comments

YES

YES

YES

Board Concurred

Board Concurred

No

YES

No

No

No
No
No

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 4

3

4

5

5A

5B

5C

6
6A

7

7A

use with other forms of recreation use
within the coastal zone area.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of major ports is not
applicable to
Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the
strengthening of small harbors is not
applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate, except when such development
has special functional requirements or
other characteristics which necessitate its
location in other coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
The extension of water and sewer
distribution lines beyond areas currently
served should be undertaken cautiously
and with prudent regard for Village water
resources and the preservation of
environmental values in undeveloped
areas.
Limit proposed development within those
portions of the coastal zone boundary
area, where traffic impacts such as site
distance and carrying capacity of the
roadways are restricted, particularly along
Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route
129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife
habitats will be protected, preserved, and,
where practical, restored so as to maintain
their viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 5

7B

7C

7D

7E

7F

7G

8

wildlife habitat shall be protected and
improved for conservation, economic,
aesthetic, recreational, and other public
uses and values. Its resources shall be
protected from the threat of pollution,
misuse, and mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of or
allowed to drain in, or on land within, the
area of influence in the significant fish and
wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitat shall not be permitted
within the area of influence of the habitat
unless best available technology is used
to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitats and shore lands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of
any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
sites.
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively channeled so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion
or flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity shall be timed so that spawning of
anadromous fish species and shellfish will
not be adversely affected.
Such activities must not cause
degradation of water quality or impact
identified significant fish and wildlife
habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain or
which cause significant sub lethal or lethal

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 6

9

9A

9B

10

11

11A

effect on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts
shall be made in a manner which ensures
the protection of renewable fish and
wildlife resources and considers other
activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through
Village-owned land adjacent to the MetroNorth parking lot, at Croton Point Park
and at Senasqua Park, along the Croton
River, and at the Croton Yacht Club.
Efforts should be made to encourage
recreational use of the fish and wildlife
resources found in these areas by
increasing the opportunities for public
access and enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational
enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated
significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the
Audubon Society Sanctuaries, on other
public or private lands within the Village,
where wildlife habitats are located.
Encourage the recreational use of areas
where such resources are found, as well
as the protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new or improvement of
existing on-shore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
state's seafood products, maintaining
adequate stocks, and expanding
aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall
be made in a manner which ensures the
protection of renewable fish and wildlife
resources and considers other activities
dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures
shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent
damage to the environment, and promote
the public welfare by guiding, regulating

No

No

No

No

No

No

6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 7

12

12A

13

13A

14

15

16

and controlling the design, construction,
use and maintenance of any development
or other activity which disturbs or breaks
the topsoil or results in earth movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and
bluffs. Primary dunes will be protected
from all encroachments that could impair
their natural protective capacity
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier
to Croton Bay from activities or
development that would increase erosion
of or flooding of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at
least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or
assured maintenance or replacement
programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be
maintained in good condition and private
landowners should be required to restore
and maintain erosion control mechanisms
along their river frontage which are
designed for long term stability.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at
other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which
supply beach materials to land adjacent to
such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase
in erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
able to function, or existing development;
and only where the public benefits

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 8

16A

17

17A

18

19

19A

19B

outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for
increasing erosion and adverse effects on
natural protective features
Public funds shall be appropriated for the
yearly maintenance of Senasqua Park
until such time that is determined that
expenditure of funds outweighs the cost of
acquiring, constructing and maintaining a
similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural
measures to minimize damage to natural
resources and property from flooding and
erosion. Such measures shall include: (i)
the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the
installation of sand fencing and draining;
(iii) the reshaping of bluffs; and (iv) the
flood-proofing of buildings or their
elevation above the base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes rising from areas
inland shall be of a non-structural nature,
wherever possible, in consideration of the
visual impact of structural measures. The
retention or planting of vegetative covers
will be preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the state
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to
the safeguards which the state has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities
so that these resources and facilities may
be fully utilized in accordance with
reasonably anticipated public recreation
needs and the protection of historic and
natural resources. In providing such
access, priority will be given to public
beaches, boating facilities, fishing areas
and waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space
along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in
the form of a trail or walkway system.
Such systems should be provided along
undeveloped and underutilized land as
well as along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that
have specific value for their physical and

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 9

19C

19D

19E

20

21

21A

22

23

visual access to the Hudson River or
Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public
transportation, when feasible, to areas
within the coastal zone area where water
dependent and water enhanced recreation
activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and Bay
at the Village-owned land south of the
Village parking lots at the Croton-Harmon
Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access
to the Croton River waterfront, in its
current undeveloped condition as a
pedestrian walkway.
Access to the publicly-owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly-owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. Such
lands shall be retained in public
ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast,
provided it is consistent with the
preservation and enhancement of other
coastal resources and takes into account
demand for such facilities. In facilitating
such activities, priority shall be given to
areas where access to the recreation
opportunities of the coast can be provided
by new or existing public transportation
services and to those areas where the
use of the shore is severely restricted by
existing development.
Boating activities should be encouraged
provided that they do not restrict other
recreational opportunities and are
undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to
the shore will provide for water-related
recreation, as a multiple use, whenever
such recreational use is appropriate in
light reasonably anticipated demand for
such activities and the primary purpose of
the development
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, in areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the state, its

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 10

24

25

25A

25B
25C

25D

communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources
of statewide significance as identified on
the coastal area map. Impairment shall
include: (i) the irreversible modification of
geologic forms, the destruction or removal
of vegetation, the destruction, or removal
of structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting or
scale will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an identified
resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified as being of statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Protect local scenic resources by
preventing: (i) the irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or
wetlands, the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic forms,
vegetation or structures are significant to
the scenic quality of an identified
resources; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an
identified resource.
Secure the designation of the panoramic
views from Croton Point as a scenic area
of statewide significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and
129 within the Croton boundaries as a
scenic road. Ensure developments on or
adjacent to Route 9 do not impair scenic
resources or views of or from the Hudson
and Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified viewsheds which provide visual access to the
Hudson River, including but not limited to
the views of the Hudson River from the
western shoreline of the Village, and from
Prickly Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River
Landing. In addition, protect view-sheds
to and of the Croton River and Gorge.

No

No

No

No
No

No

10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 11

26

27

28

28A

29

30

30A

30B

31

31A

The state coastal policy regarding the
protection of agricultural lands is not
applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
damage significant fish and wildlife and
their habitats, increase shoreline erosion
or flooding, or interfere with the production
of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must consider
short and long term impacts on the Croton
River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of energy resources is not
applicable to Croton.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited to, toxic and hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water quality
standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose any
materials in coastal waters until such
materials have been tested by the state
for conformance with water quality
standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials shall
be monitored by the state to assure there
will be no discharge or leaching of
materials into coastal waters.
State coastal area policies and purposes
of approved local waterfront revitalization
programs will be considered while
reviewing coastal water classifications and
while modifying water quality standards;
however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be
recognized as being a development
constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC
should continually monitor water quality in
the Hudson River and Croton Bay which
have already been overburdened with

No

YES

YES

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

11

YES

YES

Board Concurred

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 12

32

33

33A

33B

34

34A
35

36

37

pollutants. Recommendations for
mitigation and upgrading water quality
classifications cannot be determined
without continual monitoring and testing of
the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used
to ensure the control of storm water runoff
and combined sewer overflows draining
into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain
storm water runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing system
or to improve existing storm water runoff
systems to that runoff from such
developments does not adversely impact
coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water
discharge to control flow of pollutants from
street and parking areas, etc. directly in
the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters
from vessels will be limited so as to
protect significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreational areas and water
supply areas.
There shall be no discharge from moored
structures or marine vessels, due to
shape of cove and lack of tidal flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in
coastal waters will be undertaken in a
manner that meets existing state dredging
permit requirements, and protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic
resources, natural protective features,
important agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at lease minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these
spills occur.
Best Management Practices will be
utilized to minimize the non-point
discharge of excess nutrients, organics
and eroded soils into coastal waters.

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 13

37A

37B

38

39

39A

39B

40

41
41A
42

Standards and specifications for the
control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County's Best
Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops, and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas
will be conducted in such a manner so as
to protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Require transporters, producers and
storers of hazardous material to inform the
public or allow public access to records
involving the transport, storage, treatment
and disposal of hazardous materials. This
is of particular concern with respect to rail
transport of such materials, storage of
identified materials on railroad property
and uses in the waterfront area involved in
the treatment, storage and disposal of
such materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302,
Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to- Know of the 1986 Superfund
Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
planning committee and the Croton Fire
Department shall be notified if hazardous
substances exceed the established
threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to state water quality standards.
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or state air
quality standards to be violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring
station should be established within the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Coastal management policies will be

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 14

43

43A

43B

44
44A

considered if the state reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of the acid rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus service
to the train station, thereby decreasing
dependency on the automobile use and
reduce the generation of acid rain
precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil
fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
development of a monitoring program to
assess rail vehicle engines emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.

No

No

No

No
No

Trustee Habib asked Village Manager King to explain where this is being proposed.
Village Manager King advised that this would be on the entire west side of the lower
level of the train station parking lot. Village Manager King explained that for safety
reasons highlighted by our Fire Department, we are leaving access to the building
and Cell Tower.
Trustee Habib asked what is the future of the train station and will we need those
parking spaces in the future? Trustee Habib stated that he understands that we are
solving a problem of not having enough solar panels but what are we doing in terms
of planning for the parking lot and is concerned that we may be faced with this
question of whether this may need to be redeveloped into a parking structure and
does this freeze us out of some options.
Mayor Pugh stated that he believes this would be a better discussion to have when
we are looking at the Lease; if at some point in the future we wanted to replace the
panels with something else, that something else would have to be of a greater
value than the panels.
Mayor Pugh added that the most logical area for
redevelopment would be the upper lots which, at this time, we are not looking at.
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 15

Mayor Pugh stated that the back-up documents indicate that this is in a “flood
plain” which would make it less than ideal for development.
Trustee Horowitz referred to 1B of the “Consistency with the LWRP” and asked if
this will constrict access to the waterfront.
Village Manager King stated that this will not restrict access; the structure will stay
in the parking area.
Trustee Gallelli reminded everyone that the action we are talking about this evening
is for the “Lease”, not the actual construction if such a “Lease” is signed.
Trustee Habib asked if the “Lease” is for twenty-five years.
Village Manager King stated that it is a twenty-five year “Lease” with an option to
renew but it would be a mutual option. Village Manager emphasized that there is a
portion of the train station that is in the “flood plain” and we would have
environmental issues putting housing there especially since the DEC is very
protective of these areas more so now then they were thirty to forty years ago and
it is one of the reasons why we re-relocated our DPW facility.
Village Attorney Whitehead started that you can also look at this as a way to
revitalize since you are making it more useful by adding another use.
Trustee Gallelli referred to the “2005 Study” on possible uses for that area and it
talked about the softness of the land and they did calculate that pilings would have
to go down seventy-five feet or more to hold up any substantial structure such as a
parking structure or an apartment building and that was shown to be a negative
because doing those kinds of pilings are quite expensive and is a downside to that
kind of development in that location.

1. PUBLIC HEARING #1 – Overriding the “Property Tax Cap”
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 1 of 2021 to override the “Property Tax Cap” for the
2021-2022 Village Budget was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with the following Roll Call Vote:
Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz
Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 16

Brian McAllister, 73 Truesdale Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
understands that we may be down about three million dollars from lost
parking revenues and asked if the Board knows the amount of the “Tax Cap”
that would be lifted and suggested that before a tax increase is considered
the Board should be looking at possible projects being planned.
Mayor Pugh stated that it is a little premature to know at this time, the Board
is still in the early stages of the Budget cycle; the Manager is consulting with
Department Heads and obviously we will be working for every available
economy and going over the “Tax Cap” will be our last resort.
Village Manager King stated that when the “Tentative Budget” is filed there
will be a Public Hearing and at that point the public will have the numbers
and will be able to comment.
Cathy Connolly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if the taxes were
to be increased, and the increase is to supplement what we were down
because of Covid, would it revert back in 2022 or 2023.
Mayor Pugh stated that the “Levy” is set every year as part of the Budget
process and while it is possible, it would depend on where we are in the
subsequent year.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor
Pugh Aye
Resolution #9 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the State Legislature and the Governor enacted legislation that
establishes a “property tax cap” on the amount that a local government’s property
tax levy can increase each year; and

16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 17

WHEREAS this law became effective for a local government’s fiscal year beginning
in 2012; and
WHEREAS under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes
charged on the municipality’s taxable assessed value of property, will be capped at
2 percent or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions; and
WHEREAS the rate of inflation this year has been set by the State Comptroller’s
Office at 1.31% for municipalities operating on a June through May fiscal year; and
WHEREAS the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to
protect the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances; and
WHEREAS state legislation requires that in the event an override is necessary, the
law enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2021 has been drafted to override the
“property tax cap” law enacted by State Legislature if necessary; and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 19, 2021,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2021 to override the “property tax cap” law
enacted by State Legislature if necessary, which upon adoption will become Local
Law No. 2 of 2021.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that this is something that we have done every year since
2012 in order to protect the Village against fines if we had to exceed the “Tax Cap”.
Trustee Simon stated that this underscores how we need to roll up our sleeves and
work through the Budget process during the next several months, it will be a lot of
work and probably require some difficult choices to make but that is what Covid and
other issues have placed us in.
Mayor Pugh stated that we do have an “Unrestricted General Reserve Fund” in
excess of five million dollars and we also have some revenue generating
transactions that are in the works as well a continuing to find ways to economically
provide quality services.
PUBLIC HEARING #2 – “Masks and Face-Coverings”
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 18

A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 2 of 2021 to amend Chapter 158, “Masks and FaceCoverings” in the Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to remove certain
exemptions and revise the fine schedule was made by Trustee Simon.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with the following Roll
Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye,
Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
Cathy Connelly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if this is just
adjusting the amount as required by New York State.
Mayor Pugh stated that our preference was to set the fine lower, but the
State was adamant that our law match their law and this Local Law raises the
maximum but the actual fine would be at the discretion of the court. Mayor
Pugh added that there are also exceptions that have been removed at the
request of the “New York State Department of Health” relating to athletes
and Public Safety officers.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor
Pugh Aye
Resolution #10 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village adopted Local Law No. 9 of 2020 on November 16, 2020, to
establish Chapter 158, Masks and Face Coverings, in the Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson; and
WHEREAS such local law requires the use of masks and face-coverings in certain
areas during public health emergencies; and
WHEREAS the New York State Department of Health has submitted comments to
the Village regarding the law; and
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 19

WHEREAS NYSDOH has recommended the removal of certain exemptions and the
revision of the fine schedule in accordance with state law; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2021 has been drafted to reflect such
language; and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was held and closed on January 19, 2021,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2021 to amend Chapter 158, Masks and Face
Coverings, in the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which upon adoption will
become Local Law No. 3 of 2021.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that we had an extensive colloque at our last meeting about
the maximum one-thousand dollar fine and he had asked that the minutes make it
clear that the fine would be at the discretion of the Courts to determine as well as if
there was actually a fine and the minutes do reflect that discussion.
2.

CORRESPONDENCE:

a. Memo from the Village Attorney dated January 15, 2021, memo from The
Chazen Company dated January 14, 2021 and memo from the Planning
Board dated December 20, 2020 relating to the “Special “Permit
applications submitted by “Hudson National Golf Club.” Links to the
memos can be found by clicking onto the following:
https://crotononhudson.novusagenda.com/Agendapublic/
CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=5504&MeetingID=832
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that the Chazen memo and the
first part of her memo identify some items where we think the Board
needed additional information before undertaking the “SEQRA” Review.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that we have also come to learn that
the site that had originally been approved for a small “caddy shack”
building and a “septic area” was never built, and instead this area is
being used as an ancillary maintenance area with additional buildings
added for cold storage as well as additional clearing and drainage work
that was done without approvals. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that
this current use is a more intense use than what the “caddy shack” would
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 20

have been, there is truck traffic as a result of the materials being stored
there and we have recommended that the Village Engineer advise them
that they need to submit modified “Special Permit” and “Site Plan”
applications for this area within thirty days. Village Attorney Whitehead
stated that the Board can choose not to process the pending application
until this is cleared up, understanding that this would be harsh for “Matrix
Solar” since these are separate applications and the application before
the Board is an application from “Matrix Solar” with “Hudson National
Golf Club”, as owner of the property, as the co-applicant. Village Attorney
Whitehead advised that the Chazen memo addresses additional
information on “steep slopes” and “visual analysis”; “Hudson National
Golf Club” will still need to prepare a “Stormwater Solution Prevention
Plan” since stormwater management has been identified as a significant
issue. Village Attorney Whitehead added that they are proposing to use
“Prickly Pear Road” as the only access to this site; we will need to look at
conditions of the roadway as well as their “Tree Mitigation Plan” and
“Operations and Maintenance Plan”.
Mayor Pugh stated that he has no issue waiting the thirty days to see if
they apply to correct those other issues and we can make a decision at
that point, but he believes that the Board should not begin the “SEQRA”
review until we receive the “Stormwater Management Plan”.
Trustee Simon asked what the process is for the “Lease Agreement” with
respect to some of the issues that were mentioned and what is the venue
for that.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the use of “Prickly Pear Road”
needs to be addressed and the Board can look at the other impacts as
part of the “SEQRA” review.
Trustee Simon asked how the “caddy shack” gets resolved in the
context of “SEQRA”/“Special Permit”.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that they need to make a separate
application and while they currently have an approval for a “caddy
shack”, we believe they are not planning to build it.

20

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 21

Trustee Gallelli stated that there are a lot of different applications that
will need to be made in order to bring the current situation into
compliance and make it possible for the Board to move ahead.
b. E-Mail from Michael Grant dated December 26, 2020 regarding a rare
bird sighting at Croton Point Park. Mayor Pugh advised that he is
creating a volunteer “Bird Commissioner” position and appointed
former Chair of the “Conservation Advisory Council”, Carry Andrews.
To view the letter in its entirety you may click on the following:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Fw__Bird_Commissioner
%20(2).pdf
c. Memo from Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer, dated January 4, 2021
requesting an extension of a Building Permit for 3 Mt. Airy Road.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Habib the Board
of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the request
for an extension of a Building Permit for 3 Mt. Airy Road. Motion was
approved with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh
Aye.
d. E-Mail from Daniel Bennett of Chemical Engine Company No. 1 dated
January 3, 2021 requesting permission to hold a raffle benefitting the
fire company.
On motion by Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Habib, the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson, approved the
request from the “Chemical Engine Company No. 1” to hold a raffle to
benefit the fire company. Motion was approved with the following Roll
Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye,
Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
e. E-Mail from Toni Senecal Shea, Croton Business Council, dated January
14, 2021 regarding vendor fees and outdoor dining for 2021. To view
the E-Mail you may click on the following: file:///C:/Users/Judy
%20Weintraub/Downloads/FW__Vending_PermitsOutdoor_seateing
%20(1).pdf
Trustee Simon stated that he recalls that this was done because of
COVID in an attempt to help our merchants who were struggling and
21

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 22

since it appears that things are not improving, he is suggested that we
go along with this very reasonable request.
Mayor Pugh stated that the rationale of the Board at that time was that
this could boost revenue for the Village by creating more dining
opportunities and getting more vendors. Mayor Pugh asked Manager
King if we had any additional vendors taking advantage of this.
Village Manager King stated that some vendors took advantage of
vending in Senasqua Park, but no other vendors have taken advantage
of street vending. Village Manager King emphasized that this is just for
Sunday street vending, where we allow one or two vendors per
neighborhood.
Trustee Habib stated that he believes the business community is in
need of getting more revenue opportunities and while we do not want
to give up revenue for the Village, he supports this and would like to
try this through June.
Trustee Gallelli stated that even though the fee is reduced there still is
a fee the Village will receive and supports this.
On motion by Trustee Habib and seconded by Trustee Simon the Board
of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the request to
extend the current vendor fees to June 30, 2021.
Motion was
approved with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee
Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh
Aye.
3. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Mitchell Bring, 12 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
“Prickly Pear Hill Road” is a private road and owned and maintained by
“Hudson National Golf Club”; in 1999 “Hudson National Golf Club’s”
original “Operating Permit” established how traffic would be conducted
on “Prickly Pear Hill Road” that included two-way traffic up to resident
driveways and then one way up hill, but they have never abided by that
plan. Mr. Bring stated that after 2015 they expanded the area, now
known as the maintenance yard against protest by residents of “Prickly
Pear Hill Road”, a trench was cut across the road to conduct water off the
maintenance yard onto private property, but their “Impact Statement”
22

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 23

states that “there is no water flowing off that hill and the solar array will
not have water flowing off the site as well”. Mr. Bring stated that as a
result of their experiences he is highly suspicious that the golf course will
comply with even basic regulations, their engineer argued in writing that
no “Storm Water Management Plan” would be required because they had
provided a simple “Erosion Control Plan”, but the information provided to
the Board did not meet code, over eighty percent of the thousands of
trees to be removed are on moderate or extreme “steep slopes” and he
is gratified to see that Chazen is compelling the golf course and the
applicant to file accurate plans so that a intelligent decision can be made
about the impact. Mr. Bring stated that this illegal maintenance yard has
been the cause of continuous water problems to every home on the road;
they have not maintained the swells; they do patches and ad-hoc
measures that attempts to fix the problem. Mr. Bring stated that he is
grateful that their application now includes a complete “Stormwater
Management” Plan.
Mayor Pugh stated that “Hudson National Golf Club” will have to re-apply
and address their unapproved construction and provide the additional
evidence/documents before we can move forward.
4. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #11 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Manager, Village Treasurer and the respective department
heads have reviewed the 2020-2021 Village Budget through the first six months of
the fiscal year, and
WHEREAS this review has been undertaken in light of the continuing effects of the
pandemic on Village revenues; and
WHEREAS expense reductions in the amount of $199,471.26 have been identified,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2020-2021 budget in the amount of $186,307.74, the
23

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 24

Sewer Fund 2020-2021 budget in the amount of $1,298.34 and the Water Fund
2020-2021 budget in the amount of $11,865.18 as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Decrease
A1010.1200

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Videographer

A1110.1100

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Reduced hours for PT

$6,000.00

A1110.4000

CONTRACTUAL

Reduced delinquent tickets

$3,750.00

A1440.1100

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

PT Office Help

$13,608.00

A1680.1000

PERSONNEL SERVICES

Furlough of one employee

$5,000.00

A3189.1100

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Reduced crossing guards

$13,000.00

A3410.8030

WORKERS COMPENSATION

Lower premium

$18,424.57

A4540.4100

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS

Dinner cancelled

$1,000.00

A4540.8030

WORKERS COMPENSATION

Lower premium

$2,142.93

A5650.1100

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

PEO reduction

$20,000.00

A5650.1200

OT PERSONNEL SERVICES

No DPW cleanup

$5,000.00

A5650.4000

CONTRACTUAL

Reduction in obligations

$5,000.00

A6410.1100

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Cable Access Coordinator

$3,000.00

A7020.1100

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Reduced PT staff

$3,000.00

A7020.1200

OT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Reduced office OT

$2,000.00

A7140.1100

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Athletic programs

$4,000.00

A7140.1200

OT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Reduced program OT

$4,000.00

A7310.4000

CONTRACTUAL

Reduced programming

$1,000.00

A7550.1200

OT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Holiday OT reduction

$1,280.00

A7550.4000

CONTRACTUAL

No celebrations

$4,500.00

A7610.1100

PT PERSONNEL SERVICES

Senior Director

$14,000.00

A7610.4200

SUPPLIES

Reduced programming

$1,888.00

A8510.4200

SUPPLIES

Reduced holiday items

$2,000.00

24

$960.00

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 25

A9040.8000

WORKERS COMPENSATION

Lower premium

$51,934.24

F9040.8000

WORKERS COMPENSATION

Lower premium

$11,685.18

G9040.8000

WORKERS COMPENSATION

Lower premium

$1,298.34

GENERAL REVENUES
Decrease
A7020.2001

PARK & RECREATION FEES

$40,000.00

A5650.1730

PARKING LOT DAILY

$146,487.74

F1000.2140

METERED WATER SALES

$11,685.18

G1000.2120

SEWER RENTS

$1,298.34

Resolution #12 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Historic Hudson Valley (HHV) is a non-profit organization which owns and
maintains the historic Van Cortlandt Manor property, located on South Riverside
Avenue; and
WHEREAS for almost two decades, HHV has hosted the annual Great Jack-O-Lantern
Blaze (“The Blaze”) at Van Cortlandt Manor, which normally brings over 10,000
visitors to the Village each fall to visit and patronize local restaurants and
businesses, and
WHEREAS to ensure safety for residents and visitors to the Village, police officers
must be assigned to conduct traffic control in the area; and
WHEREAS HHV has agreed to pay the cost of the overtime for these officers; and
WHEREAS the village received a reimbursement check from HHV for the cost of the
overtime in the amount of $50,207.84,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2020-2021 budget in the amount of $50,207.84.
25

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 26

GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A3120.1520-Police Fees

$50,207.84

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A3120.1200-Police-Personnel (OT)

$50,207.84

Resolution #13 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village’s current contract for office and building cleaning services
expires January 31, 2021; and
WHEREAS the existing contract covers the following facilities: the Municipal
Building, Gouveia House, DPW Garage, Parking Lot office, and pay machine kiosks;
and
WHEREAS on December 23, 2020, the Village advertised an Invitation to Bid for
office and building cleaning services; and
WHEREAS, on January 14, 2021, the Village received and opened four bids, and
WHEREAS the low bidder for office and building cleaning services was NSI Clean of
Middletown, New York, in the amount of $3,200.00 per month; and
WHEREAS, after reviewing the bids, Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works,
recommends awarding the bid to NSI Clean,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to award Bid No. 4-2020 for office and building cleaning services to NSI Clean of
Middletown, New York, for the period beginning February 1, 2021, through January
31, 2022, in the amount of $3,200.00 per month.
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
6.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

26

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 27

Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on January 4, 2021 was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on January 5,
2021 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on January
11, 2021 was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simoni and approved with a 5-0 vote.
7.

REPORTS
Trustee Gallelli advised that the Blood Bank has been doing well and will
continue for the next two Saturdays; Grievance Day will be held on
Tuesday, February 16th at 4:00pm via Zoom and the Planning Board
approved a two lot sub-division at 104 Maple Street.
Trustee Horowitz advised that on January 12 th the Diversity and Inclusion
Committee held their monthly group discussion session on “effective
communication”; next month the discussion will focus on “Black History
Month”.
Trustee Simon advised that the Rotary club is moving forward on the next
“Drug Take-Back Day” sometime in April, the Rotary Club also planted
“American Dogwoods” at Croton Landing to commemorate the resilience
of our community in light of the Pandemic, a dedication ceremony will be
held sometime in May, last week he had the opportunity to participate in a
training webinar for new Trustees with the New York Conference of Mayors
which was very informative, he also had the opportunity to tour our Police
Department with Chief Nikitopoulos; we have a very hard working Police
Department working in a very challenging facility and the work that is
being done within our budget constraints to update the facility is very
beneficial; he also had the opportunity to look at the initial work our
Department of Public Works is doing downstairs in getting the room ready
for the “Historical Society”. Trustee Simon stated that we now have an
official proposal from the new administration for three hundred and fifty
billion dollars for State and Local assistance under the next “Covid-19 Bill”
and is pleased that every city, town and village will be included, Governor
27

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 19, 2021
Page 28

Cuomo estimates that New York will get approximately fifteen billion
dollars and we will be looking to be part of that distribution; our County
Executive spoke at our recent Chamber meeting and talked about trying
to localize the vaccination process and get more inoculation centers closer
to where people live.
Mayor Pugh thanked Village staff for getting information out to the public
quickly on the ever changing situation with regards to the “Covid-19”
vaccination and while there may be some logistical and scheduling issues
for people, he encouraged everyone to be persistent and continue to be
extra careful with their regular precautions. Mayor Pugh advised that on
January 28th the “Housing Task Force” is having a forum on housing needs
in the community, information on how to register can be found on the
Village’s Website and hoped that everyone had a meaningful “Martin
Luther King Jr. Day”.
Village Manager King advised that the “Police Task Force” sub-committees
have submitted their recommendations; they have compiled them into
one document and will be submitting it to the Village Board on February
1st, at which time we hope to schedule a Public Hearing on February 22nd
with the goal to have this adopted in March.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:37pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

28

