Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Wednesday, February 17, 2021 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$141,708.13
$8,040.73
$2,443.29
$232,668.67
$9,839.50

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
Colleen Beyrer, 19 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the “Term
Sheet” with respect to the “Katz” property, states that the development is
designed to best serve the needs of the community, and that these
apartments target working class people wanting to stay in the Village and
asked how this is going to be accomplished, since it has been stated at
multiple meetings that you cannot actually designate these apartments
for certain groups.
Mayor Pugh stated that we cannot reserve these apartments based on
geography, but it would stand to reason that people who move into these
apartments would be part of the Village. Mayor Pugh stated that our
“Comprehensive Plan” indicates that approximately ninety percent of the
population that works within the Village actually resides outside of it,
which is not that surprising given the relatively large role that retail plays
in the local economy with comparably low wages which makes owning a
home virtually impossible on that income.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 2

Brendan Beyrer, 19 Wells, Croton on Hudson, said that the “Term Sheet”
indicates that the “PILOT” (“Payment In Lieu of Taxes”) would start at
$70,000 and increase three percent each year for thirty years and then
revert to paying taxes on an assessed value rate and asked what the
assessed rate would be if this development was not being offered a
“PILOT” and how much tax dollars we are forgoing for the next thirty
years.
Village Manager King advised that when she prepared this, it was based
on $60,000 not $70,000 and she does not have that information with her
this evening.
Mayor Pugh asked if we have an estimate of the assessed value of the
property.
Village Manager King advised that our Assessor estimated between
$70,000 and $80,000, but we understood that we would not be getting as
much tax revenue, and that was weighed against the benefits of
affordable housing.
Mayor Pugh stated that currently this property does not generate any tax
dollars as opposed to the $70,000, plus the escalator, as well as the upfront payment for the property. Mayor Pugh stated that a more
commercially oriented use would have had a higher assessed value but
that would have brought in more traffic and other issues and would not
have helped meet our critical housing needs. Mayor Pugh stated that
“PILOTS” are very standard in the construction of affordable housing.
Trustee Habib stated that putting restrictions on this property made it less
desirable and the commercial value to many developers was a bit
depressed intentionally through the public input process.
Trustee Simon stated that in addition to the “PILOT”, there is also the
“Croton Only Fund” that the developer has set up in the amount of
$20,000 annually which should be added on as well.
4. CORRESPONDENCE - none
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS

2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 3

Norma Drummond, Commissioner, “Westchester County Department of
Planning” congratulated Croton and supports the decision to sell 41-51
Maple Street to allow for the creation of multi-family apartments; twentynine of the thirty-three units would be available to households earning
less than eighty percent of the County’s “Area Medium Income”; the
building is consistent with the Village’s “Comprehensive Plan” and
commends the Village for their process in getting to this point.
Adam Decker, 13 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that as a
member of the “Croton Housing Task Force” and a business owner he
applauds the Village Board for turning the sale of the Village owned “Katz”
property into an opportunity to bring more affordable housing to our
Village. Mr. Decker stated that our recent “Housing Forum” and the
“Westchester County Housing Needs Assessment” highlighted the needs
for more affordable housing in our area, our community and our local
businesses will benefit so that people who live and/or work in our
community will have more opportunities as well as leading to a stronger
and more balanced community.
Jeanne Shaw, 9 Van Cortlandt Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
has been involved in the “Task Force” and “Croton Housing Network” and
she is extremely happy with the outcome. Ms. Shaw stated that her only
concern is that the sidewalk ends with the property and while she
understands this is not the developer’s problem, we do need a sidewalk
on the other side of Route 129 because people walk there all the time.
Mayor Pugh stated that one of the challenges is that Route 129 is a “New
York State” roadway, and the “New York State Department of
Transportation” would have to be involved in any changes, but it is
certainly something that we should work towards.
Nance Shatzkin, 132 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated that
as President of the “Croton Housing Network” she has been active on the
issue of affordable housing for thirty years and believes this is something
that we will all be proud of for many years. Ms. Shatzkin applauded the
significant “PILOT” and is pleased that a buffer zone is being maintained
that will offer separation for the Wells Avenue community.
Dylan Basescu, 65 Radnor Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
development at 41-51 Maple Street will have a positive impact on the
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 4

Village, and offer many people the opportunity to live in safe housing, the
sale of this parcel brings in $1.75 million dollars that will help to maintain
services at a time when our budget is greatly strained.
Greg Maher, 44 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that the screening
buffer is quite respectful for the residents on Wells Avenue, the height of
the building is lower than other proposals and is more in line with a lower
scale of development, the design of the building will also be respectful to
the residents who are living there which sends an important message that
even though they have less income than others they are respected, and
they matter. Mr. Maher stated that the price for the lot is a fair price, and
while the tax revenue will not be maximized, it is a significant tax revenue
in terms of the ”PILOT” and the additional payment to the Village. Mr.
Maher stated that building affordable housing in communities like Croton
is extraordinary difficult and in many ways this project reflects our values
as a community.
Theodoro J. Oshiro, 41 Morningside Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that
there is a real crisis for affordable housing in our State and he supports
this project; the affordability issue is important to him and his family and
believes that Croton needs more income diversity, and we should be a
Village that welcomes everyone.
Kathy Connelly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she had
lived in another community until they had saved up and were able to
move back to Croton several years ago and while she does not begrudge
people, she is extremely concerned that the multiple housing projects
being built will change what is a beautiful small Village into a small city.
6. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #19 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HABID, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Emergency Medical Services Department provides ambulance
service to the Town of Cortlandt for the Mount Airy/Quaker Bridge District on a
contract basis each year; and
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 5

WHEREAS the Town has provided the Village with the 2021 Ambulance InterMunicipal Agreement between the Town of Cortlandt and the Village of Croton-onHudson,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
sign the 2021 Inter-Municipal Agreement with the Town of Cortlandt for Emergency
Medical Services; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Town shall pay the Village the sum of $66,043
to provide such Emergency Medical Services during the period from January 1, 2021
to December 31, 2021.
Resolution #20 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Fire Department provides fire protection service to the Town
of Cortlandt (“the Town”) for the Mount Airy/Quaker Bridge Fire Protection District
on a contract basis each year; and
WHEREAS the Town has provided the Village with the 2021 Quaker Bridge Fire
District Agreement between the Town and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the 2021 agreement for fire protection services with the Town; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: the Town shall pay the Village the sum of $352,961,
with $70,592 paid directly to the Fire Council of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and
the balance of $282,369 paid to the Village, for providing fire protection services
within the Mount Airy/Quaker Bridge Fire Protection District during the period from
January 1, 2021 until December 31, 2021.
Resolution #21 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HABIB seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 6

WHEREAS the Town of Cortlandt has presented an Inter-Municipal Agreement to
the Village to permit the sharing of equipment and vehicles among various
municipalities; and
WHEREAS the Village has shared or loaned equipment and vehicles over the years
with the City of Peekskill, Towns of Cortlandt and Philipstown and Village of
Buchanan; and
WHEREAS such an agreement allows the Village to save on costs that would occur
from the purchase and/or rental of equipment and vehicles; and
WHEREAS the Village would like to extend this Inter-Municipal Agreement for
another year,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the Inter-Municipal Agreement with the Town of Cortlandt for shared
equipment and vehicles; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the term of this agreement shall be from January 1,
2021, until December 31, 2021.
Resolution #22 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Town of Cortlandt has presented an Inter-Municipal Agreement to the
Village to allow the inclusion of the Village when advertising for bids; and
WHEREAS the Village has utilized the Town’s purchasing services over the years by
using Town bids to purchase supplies and materials; and
WHEREAS the Village would like to extend this Inter-Municipal Agreement for
another year,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the Inter-Municipal Agreement with the Town of Cortlandt for purchasing
services; and

6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 7

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the term of this agreement shall be from January 1,
2021, until December 31, 2021.
Resolution #23 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Westchester County Board of Elections (“the BOE”) uses various
educational, municipal and non-profit buildings each year for primary and general
elections; and
WHEREAS the Village agreed to let the Municipal Building Community Room be used
as a polling site for the November 2020 General Election, and
WHEREAS the Village incurs costs related to overtime for opening and closing the
building for the poll workers, and
WHEREAS, the BOE has submitted payment to the Village in the amount of $500 for
the use of the room,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
accept these funds as revenue in the 2020-2021 General Fund Budget as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE
A1000.2410

RENTAL OF REAL PROPERTY

$500

DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that as a result of turning the elections over to the County the
Village has saved money and has seen higher turnouts for Village elections.
Resolution #24 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE HABIB, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 8

WHEREAS the Village is in receipt of fees totaling $5,500 for the proposed new
house at 38 Nordica Drive; and
WHEREAS the Engineering Department has been notified that the project will not be
going forward at this time; and
WHEREAS Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer, has submitted a memo requesting the
prepaid fees be refunded; and
WHEREAS the Board must approve the refunding of these fees,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized
to issue a refund check in the amount of $5,500 to Ryan Wilson of Carmel, New
York.
Resolution #25 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib Aye, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has owned the parcel located at 41-51
Maple Street (“the Property”) since 2008; and
WHEREAS the Village Board has determined the Property is not needed for
municipal purposes; and
WHEREAS the Property is located in a C-2 Zoning District and within the Municipal
Place Gateway Overlay District, allowing for a variety of commercial and multifamily residential uses; and
WHEREAS beginning in 2018, the Village Board of Trustees planned for, and
ultimately began, a rezoning study of the North/South Riverside Avenue corridor
and Municipal Place Gateway; and
WHEREAS on March 2, 2020, the Village Board adopted the Municipal Place
Gateway and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning Study as an amendment to the
2017 Comprehensive Plan Update and thereafter adopted Local Law 4 of 2020,
which amended certain zoning provisions for the Municipal Place Gateway in
accordance with the adopted Study, and
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 9

WHEREAS the amended zoning provisions allow for an all-residential building at the
Property with a maximum floor area ratio of 0.5, a minimum fifty-foot setback from
adjacent residential properties on Wells Avenue and Beekman Avenue, and ten
percent of the total area of the site to be set aside as publicly accessible open
space; and
WHEREAS in April 2020, Kevin Dwarka of Kevin Dwarka LLC was hired to prepare a
Request for Proposals (RFP) for the purchase and development of the Property; and
WHEREAS a resident advisory task force was formed by the Mayor to provide the
Board with input and feedback on the RFP, as well as any of the proposals received
by the Village; and
WHEREAS the RFP was issued by the Village on September 21, 2020, with a return
date of November 16, 2020; and
WHEREAS the RFP included provisions limiting the allowable number of dwelling
units to 33 and reserving a minimum of 20% of the units for affordable housing; and
WHEREAS the Village received six proposals by November 16, 2020, and of those
proposals, five were considered to be compliant, and
WHEREAS the Village Board selected three semi-finalists from the received
proposals and sent those to the task force for review and comment, and
WHEREAS, after reviewing the report generated by the task force, the Village Board
selected two proposers to present their proposals to the Village Board, and
WHEREAS the Village Board met with each of the final proposers twice, reviewed
the proposals, the qualifications submitted by the proposers and their experience
developing similar projects, and their financial qualifications; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has decided to move forward with the transaction with
Regan Development Corporation of Ardsley, New York,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED That the Village Board hereby chooses Regan
Development Corporation as the proposed purchaser and developer of the Property
and directs the Village Attorney to draft and negotiate the legal terms of a contract
with Regan Development Corporation, in accordance with the terms of the Village’s
September 21, 2020 RFP and the Regan Development Corporation Proposal as
revised, for consideration by the Village Board, it being understood that the Village
will be under no binding obligation to Regan Development Corporation unless and
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 10

until the Village has executed a written contract with Regan Development
Corporation.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that the process has been beneficial to Croton, the purchase
price exceeded our expectations, it is a real breakthrough in affordable housing for
Croton, and everyone who looks at the plans will be pleased with not only the
design but its compatibility with the area. Trustee Simon stated that it has been
good working with the developers, and he has found them to be honorable to work
with and thanked everyone in Croton, going back to the work on our
“Comprehensive Plan”, the rezoning and all those that have gotten us to this point.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this has been a lengthy process, there has been a lot of
community input and a lot of discussion and we have arrived at a decision which
she believes is the right thing to do. Trustee Gallelli stated that this gives Croton
the opportunity to have a variety of housing and believes that the residents who
move into this development will add to Village life and looks forward to its
development.
Mayor Pugh stated that this is an incredible breakthrough in terms of addressing our
affordable housing needs, and this proposal, on its own, almost doubles our stock of
affordable housing. Mayor Pugh stated that there are over five hundred families in
Croton that are paying half their income in housing costs according to the County’s
“Housing Assessment” and most of our workforce live outside the Village. Mayor
Pugh advised that this property was purchased by the Village in 2008, the intention
was that this parcel would be redeveloped under the Village’s oversight and control
and believes we have struck a good deal for the taxpayers, collecting almost double
what we paid for the property and guaranteeing a revenue stream that will enable
the Village to provide services to residents going forward. Mayor Pugh stated that
during our extensive zoning process the Board tried to address the concerns of
neighbors of the property and residents overall by reducing the “FAR”, creation of
vegetative buffers and the conscious effort to avoid potential disruptive commercial
uses. Mayor Pugh addressed the concerns of some residents regarding school
enrollment and stated that our school enrollment peaked in 2009 and has been
trending down ever since as well as the decline in birth rates in Westchester County
and believes we have adequate services to meet the needs of residents coming into
this development.
Mayor Pugh stated that Croton used to be a place where
working class people could afford to live, but if you look at the “Census” that is not
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 11

the case any longer and we need to bring new housing opportunities and he is glad
that we have been able to do this.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she is delighted with all the positive remarks that
reflect the same values that we as a Board share for our Village, we have been
talking about affordable housing for years and this development is the culmination
of everything that we have been wanting to bring to Croton, and she is immensely
proud that we have been able to put this development on track and thanked
everyone who has helped us along the way.
Resolution #26 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Habib, Nay, Trustee Simon Aye,
Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Horowitz Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye. Motion moved with a
4-1 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been working with Sol Systems of
Washington, DC, to draft a lease agreement for the installation of solar canopies at
the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, and
WHEREAS on December 21, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes in relation to the lease agreement; and
WHEREAS on January 19, 2021, the Village Board reviewed the EAF and LWRP
requirements, and
WHEREAS on February 1, 2021, the Village Board issued a Negative Declaration
with respect to the Proposed Action, and
WHEREAS on February 1, 2021 the Village Board determined that the Proposed
Action was consistent the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s
LWRP,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute a lease agreement with Sol Systems of Washington, DC, for the installation
of solar canopies at the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, subject to the final
approval of the Village Attorney.
DISCUSSION:
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 12

Trustee Habib thanked everyone who worked so hard on this project and while he
feels strongly that the time has come that we must think about solar, wind and
conservation, he cannot vote for this resolution. Trustee Habib stated that he feels
we need to do a deep dive study into what is the ten/fifteen year future of our
railroad station in the era of tele-commuting and zooming. Trustee Habib stated
that we have not really revisited the a-z possibilities for the railroad station and
would like to have some comfort level to the vision of what this parcel of land will
look like ten years from now and that we do not regret limiting our options.
Mayor Pugh stated that he respectfully disagrees with Trustee Habib, this is
something that the Village has been thinking about for a long time intermittently
and now we have an opportunity to move on this. Mayor Pugh stated that Lindsay
Audin and the entire “Sustainability Committee” have done exhaustive work on this
and it will generate revenue for the Village and provide energy for hundreds of
homes. Mayor Pugh stated that we deliberately removed our Department of Public
Works out of the train station parking lot because of the extensive flooding during
Hurricane Sandy and it is hard to imagine inviting someone to build a permanent
structure there. Mayor Pugh stated that we have also heard from some of our
residents about their concerns of over development and believes development at
the train station parking lot is asking a lot for our community to process and we
should capitalize on what this offers that will add money to the Village.
Trustee Horowitz asked Trustee Habib if he thinks in the future, we could have
planned a larger installation then we are planning now and that somehow that will
be against our best wishes.
Trustee Habib said he would not rule that out, but he feels strongly that we should
conduct some research especially during this pandemic era.
Trustee Simon stated that at the beginning of our goal setting Work Session last
Monday evening, we discussed taking a look at the future of the train station and
believes that this project is not in conflict with those objectives. Trustee Simon
stated that there will still be portions of the train station that are very worthy
looking at down the road and does not see that as a justification of putting this
project aside in order to think seriously about a portion of the train station being
repurposed.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she supports this resolution, to Trustee Habib’s point
about doing studies and looking at other possibilities, we have in the past, one in
2005 and another about six years ago that looked at the possibilities of what could
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 13

happen at the train station and they identified potential difficulties especially in light
of the “FEMA Flood Plains” which affects that area, it is also in a critical
environmental area as far as the “New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation” is concerned which limits what we can do there as well as the
possible soil contamination that may exist. Trustee Gallelli stated that she does not
believe we moved quickly on this, we were fortunate where circumstances resulted
in this being a good purposeful use that we have been looking at for many years
and is very thankful for the work that has been done by the “Sustainability
Committee” and Manager King in getting it to this point. Trustee Gallelli stated that
what we are passing tonight is the ability of the Village Manger to move forward
with the Lease Agreement but there are still many things that have to be worked
out and this is not necessarily a done deal.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on February 1, 2021 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9.

REPORTS
Trustee Gallelli stated that this evening the Board made two major
decisions which represent a lot of background work by many people in our
Village and are significant steps in moving forward. Trustee Gallelli
reminded everyone that this coming Monday at 6:00pm a public hearing
will be held on our “Police Reform Proposal” and urged the community to
participate, the Board met yesterday as the “Board of Assessors” and
received thirteen application, the Planning Board began their ”Site Plan
Review” for 25 South Riverside Avenue, it is just the beginning of the
process and expects there to be several more meetings. Trustee Gallelli
thanked our Public Works Department, Fire Department, and EMS for
everything they have done and continue to do for our community during
these recent snow-storms.
Trustee Habib stated that he is sorry that he missed our last Work Session
and looks forward to working with the Board on many of these initiatives,
the Village held a wonderful Zoom event with businesses in the “Upper
Village” to discuss commercial business issues, this is an example of how
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 14

our government tries to reach out to our businesses and is happy that our
“Croton Business Council” is assisting our local businesses.
Trustee Horowitz advised that last Wednesday’s Diversity and Inclusion
session was on “Black History Month”, it was well attended and extremely
informative, and looks forward to further discussions on issues about
systemic racism and how it affects our community.
Trustee Simon advised that he attended a meeting of the “Hudson Valley
Gateway Chamber” last week wherein a “Con-Edison representative spoke
about their “Danger Trees Program”, last week he attended a “Legislative
Conference” Zoom meeting with the “New York Conference of Mayor’s”,
the top priority from “NYCOM’s” perspective is the restoration of much of
the funding that was withheld in this current year’s budget; the Federal
Government is moving forward on their “American Rescue Plan” a
package that includes three hundred and fifty billion dollars for State and
Local governments. Trustee Simon gave an update on his discussions with
businesses in the “Upper Village”, to listen to the complete report you
may
log
onto
the
following:
www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/board/trustees/pages/webcasts
Mayor Pugh appointed Bryan Deyo to the “Business Development
Committee”.
Mayor Pugh, on behalf of the entire Board and the community, extended
his deep appreciation to the Department of Public Works, Police and Fire
Departments and EMS for everything they have done for our community
during these recent storms.
Mayor Pugh asked for a moment of silence on the recent passing of Robert
Spatta. Mr. Spatta was a former Captain of the Washington Engine
Company. Mayor Pugh stated that it is hard to put into words and express
the kind of loss that this represents, he devoted himself to our community
and he will be greatly missed.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:45pm
Respectfully submitted,
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 17, 2021
Page 15

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

15

