MINUTES – Croton Sustainability Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Feb. 28, 2021 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:
Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher
Bernie Yozwiak
Dan Columbini

[Bracketed] text indicates subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: none
- CEC Leadership Round Grants: we will soon become eligible for up to five grants, none requiring
matching funds: $10,000, $20,000, and $70,000, and two options for additional $5,000 grants for
specific actions (e.g., adopt NY Stretch Code, pursue a community campaign). Based on our
positions in the CEC and CSC programs, we have already accumulated 4,100 of the required
5,000 CEC points needed to qualify for $100,000 of those grants.
After a review of all options available in the near term, the only one that could get us to 5,000 is
adoption of the NY Stretch Code, as previously suggested by Jon. Doing so would secure another
1,200 points, bringing our total to 5,300 points.
After much discussion, all agreed to push ahead on the Stretch Code. To that end, Jon and
Lindsay will start the education process with Village Engineer Dan O’Connor. That will include:
setting up zooms and/or calls with Dan, putting him in touch with Dan Colombini’s architect on his
new house (Christina Griffin) who helped get Stretch adopted in Hastings, and (if needed)
connecting him with municipal engineers in towns that already adopted Stretch. [Lindsay made the
pitch for Stretch to Dan O’Connor via email on 3/2/21.]
Once he’s on board, Brian directed that a draft resolution (NYSERDA has one) be attached to a
letter to the Board. It would initially be reviewed as correspondence. Lindsay will push to get the
letter to the Board before our next meeting. The Board would then discuss the matter and set a
date for a public hearing and (hopefully) a quick passage of the resolution. Brian said that a
webinar for property developers on Stretch’s $ impacts would be appropriate thereafter.
Regarding how best to spend the grants (if we get them), see below in approximate order of costeffectiveness for cutting GHG. All are evaluated based on a ~15-year lifetime. CEC funding is
unlikely for the first three. We agreed that they could be considered without using grant money.
1. Buy carbon offsets to zero out the municipal carbon footprint at a price of ~$5/MT. Our present
footprint is ~1,400 MT/yr, so annual cost would be ~$7K/yr. The 15-year cost would be $105K.
2. Buy down 100% renewable NYPA power by its extra ~5 mills/kWh. At .7 lb/kWh, we get a price
of ~$16/MT. Annual cost would be ~$8K/yr yielding a 15-year cost of $120K.

1

3. Buy down B10 for diesel trucks and fuel oil at the DPW based on its extra $.10/gal. At 22.2
lb/gal diesel and a ~10% carbon cut, GHG is saved at ~$100/MT. Annual cost would be ~$3.5K/yr
leading to a 15-year cost of $52.5K.
4. Convert the Washington Engine fire house from oil heat to air-source heat pumps (ASHP).
Based on Jon’s draft design, the capital cost is ~$30K. Replacing its ~2,500 gal/yr of fuel oil with
~27,000 kWh/yr to run heat pumps, would cut ~16.6 MT GHG at ~$125/MT. If 15-year operating
savings of ~$2K/yr are included, that cost drops to about zero.
5. replace resistance DHW heaters at the DPW and Muni Bldg with HPWH at net .5 MT/yr per
site, and per site cost of ~$2,000, yielding GHG savings at ~$270/MT. Because of NYPA demand
charges, operating cost savings may be small. Installation and GHG pricing to replace the
Washington firehouse’s oil-fired DHW system would be higher because it instead uses oil and also
incurs demand charges. The other two firehouses use natural gas. While their DHW replacements
would net ~.14 MT/yr per site, operating costs would increase.
6. To replace residential resistance units with HPWH at Con Ed rates, a ~2/3 reduction in kWh, and
a net cost (after rebate and tax credit) of $700, GHG cost is under ~$100/MT. If operating savings
are included, that would be less than zero. Without rebate and tax credits, it is about zero.
7. New EV sedans at ~$30,000 (after $5K/car State subsidy), at net 3 MT/yr per car, GHG savings
would cost ~$700/MT. If operating savings are ~$.03/mile, 15-year savings would bring that cost
down to ~$650/MT. Two cars are old enough to merit replacement: Rec. Dept. 2001 Taurus 19
MPG (veh. #94-10) and the Eng. Dept. 2002 Crown Victoria 18 MPG (#102-02). Both are parked at
the Muni Bldg, and would use its two (presently public) charge ports. Janine has been asked to
provide odometer readings and indicate if replacements are desired. Brian will remind her.
By comparison, rooftop PV (@ $2/W, .7 lb/kWh) cuts GHG at a cost of ~$300/MT. For canopies,
that cost may be 50+% higher. However, community solar leasing rent avoids a need for grants.
Brian asked that Lindsay refresh Ecogy’s earlier offer for rooftop PV at several muni sites. [On
2/28, Lindsay sent him Ecogy’s mockups and some questions to clarify the spaces involved.]
Pending acceptability from the Village manager and Board, the committee approved the above.
Niall asked if grant funds could be used to start another community garden. Bernie asked about a
tree planting program. Lindsay agreed to query NYSERDA on those options [done 3/2/21]. It may
be possible to use funds from the $5K grants (if we get them) to do so. Bernie liked the purchase of
carbon offsets and RECs, even if that could not be done using grant money. Joel was not
enthusiastic on that option.
[After the meeting, Lindsay and Jon discussed a fallback position if new EVs were not desired:
install two large ASHPs in the DPW garage areas to cut fuel oil used to heat them. They concluded
doing so would not be a good idea, and could trigger changes required by the building code.]
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- EV/EVSE:

2

- School bus electrification: The last district bus task force meeting occurred Jan. 28. Its report was
presented to the Board of Education on Feb. 25. In essence, the draft suggested a RFI for vendors
interested in developing a roadmap for infrastructure and a process for securing electric school
buses. It suggested budgeting for one bus in the next budget cycle. At its end, it contrasted costs
for diesel and electric versions of a full and medium size units, though the unit used for comparison
of the smaller unit was a van, not a school bus. It therefore lacked the extra safety and other
features required for school buses. No EV school bus in that size is presently manufactured.
- Data on DCFC connectors: Niall reviewed his research on the different DC fast charger (DCFC)
connectors, which range from 50 to 350 kW (see attached memo). He pointed out that it is likely
that (for large trucks) a different DC fast charger (not CCS or ChadeMO) will be created for them.
- Solar projects:
Train station parking lot canopies: On 2/17, the VB OKed Village to sign the draft lease
agreement with SolSystems, which Janine then did. The next step: begin (as weather allows)
drilling bore holes through the blacktop to determine if the site is sufficiently stable and does not
pose a toxic waste disposal issue. Joel will send Lindsay the Gazette article on the project.
Croton Landing canopies: Joel reported that the bill to overcome the “park alienation” barrier
was re-introduced by State Sen. Peter Harckham as S.2995. Rep. Carrie Woerner of Saratoga
Springs agreed to introduce a companion bill into the Assembly. On 2/20, Sandy Galef reported to
Joel that “It has been rather slow this year to get bills in so Carrie is probably waiting patiently for a
bill number - hopefully soon.” We look forward to seeing the problem gone before summer, at
which time we can re-initiate development. Joelle Foskett, Harckham’s Legislative Director, says
that they have included the bill in their budget letter and are proposing it for article 7 (i.e., budget)
language. Lindsay again raised at SW’s 2/25 Annual Meeting where Warren Lucas, Town
Supervisor of North Salem, agreed to raise it to NYS Conference of Mayors and Municipal Officials
(NYCOM) and discuss it with Mayor Pugh. Joel agreed to raise it at a 3/16 zoom on State energy
issues being sponsored by Mothers Out Front.
- Other local solar:
National Golf Course 1.8 MW Matrix Solar Array Project: Brian said that, other than the tree
cutting issue, the site had other problems including application fees and existing code violations.
Croton Houses of Worship (HoW): Bernie did a googlemaps “flyover” of the six in Croton to
assess their potential solar square footage. All potential areas were rather small, with the total
yielding less than 160 kW, not enough to meet the ~300 kW needed to attract a solar developer.
His analysis is attached at the end of these minutes.
- HPWH project:
- To bankroll and “sweeten” HPWH installations using some of a $10K CEC grant, we discussed
using some grant funds to provide a subsidy (e.g., $250 per home) for Low-To-Moderate (LMI)
households. After much discussion, we concluded that could be problematic from several
standpoints. Brian agreed to confirm that with Janine. We will instead try other means, e.g., bilingual postings and a push in HoWs via promotion from the pulpits.
3

To help win the grant (and to satisfy ourselves on savings claims), all agreed to using some of it to
pay to instrument several sites (with electric and water sub-meters) to quantify water and power
usage. That data would show measured results, instead of the projected / modeled / stipulated
numbers seen in others’ studies. Bernie previously expressed interest in being a test site and meter
reader for a HPWH in his home, which uses oil to heat DHW. Costs to promote HPWH installations
(e.g., banner, survey, flyers, etc.) would also be covered in the $10K grant request. Lindsay will
distribute a revised draft program description for member comment before our next meeting.
- Dan reviewed a memo he produced on specification details (e.g., heat trap piping, expansion tank
backflow preventers) for reducing HPWH standby losses due to thermos-siphoning. He provided an
excellent graphic we will add to our flyer and web posting. He suggested that our counseling to
potential customers include consideration of one-tank-size larger to ensure minimal (or no) use of a
HPWH’s built-in resistance element during high DHW demand periods.
- Bernie got DHW data from the 6 HoWs. Many have indirect units fired by oil-fired boilers, but
Asbury Methodist has two “almost new” electrics and one old gas unit that might be appropriate
due to its age. Holy Name has one electric, and St. Augustine’s has one direct-fired oil. His
spreadsheet of that data is attached.
- SW’s heat pump effort is now part of its EnergySmart Homes program. During a 2/26 call with
Lauren Brois of SW, she and Lindsay worked out several ways to integrate our program with its
HPWH promotions, including its pre-screened contractors and web postings. [A series of questions,
and a draft of our flyer, were sent to her 3/1 for responses.]
Reports:
- On securing grants from private foundations, Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) suggested four that
might support some of our work. Len found that one of them was a serious option. World
Resources Institute (WRI) agreed last December to discuss it with its staff. He also got a positive
response from the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, It asked for a “letter of inquiry” containing
specific data. Lindsay will provide it. Len will follow up on those 3 options. His memo is attached.
- Jon described his design and expected cost (~$30K) for the Washington Engine ASHP option.
When he has determined the additional electric load involved, he will communicate that to Bernie.
Bernie will speak with Joe Streany (who he knows), a fireman familiar with recent changes at the
site. As needed to assess changes to its electric service, Bernie will do the same with Chris
Colombo, Washington’s fire chief and the electrician that did the service upgrade. To assess any
other site issues, Jon agreed to set up a site walk-through with Streany and Bernie by mid-March.
Brian said that any project costing over $20K will need to be competitively bid. Jon has a contractor
willing to provide a “deep discount” because it involved first responders, but it was unclear if it
would do so if required to bid.
Communications: nothing significant, other than indicated above.
Recruitment/Outreach:
- On intern searching, Jon hit “pay dirt” with the High School’s Guidance Dept. Six AP Environmental
Science students expressed interest, with four following up. In a 2/20 zoom, Joel and Lindsay
reviewed tasks with them. They will next zoom to assess progress on 3/6.
4

- Bernie had raised the internship option with HNM’s Youth Minister (Carl Barnes) who offered two
others, but the timing of our work was not in sync with their availability. Lindsay thanked Carl, and
said we will keep them in mind for future tasks.
New business / other events:
- To create a backup file and person for the committee, Jon agreed to be our vice-chair and to
receive and keep secure a thumb drive of the committee’s archive. Every six months, Lindsay will
replace it with an updated version thereof.
Date for next meeting: March 28, 2021

5

TO:

Lindsay Audin

FROM:

Len Simon

SUBJECT:

Foundation Update

DATE:
February 27, 2021
_____________________________________________________________________________
Here's an update on various foundation sources and opportunities.
World Resources Institute. I reached out this week to the staff member who said in December "I’m pulling
together a few colleagues who might like to participate and will get back to schedule". Hopefully there will be
some follow-up.
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation. They have a specific format for their Letter of Inquiry. I can finalize
and submit it electronically if you can get me: (1) the Tax ID we use for grants; (2) Title of the proposed project;
(3) Brief description of the specific project; and (4) Requested funding amount.
Park Foundation. Their energy program supports efforts in NY to decrease reliance on fossil fuels, and shift
the state’s energy needs towards a clean energy system. But review of their grants for the last several years
show awards only for advocacy efforts. No recommended follow-up.
Overbrook Foundation. They have an active environmental program, but no recent grants for energy projects
or to governmental entities, focusing on advocacy to national and regional groups. No recommended followup.
Energy Foundation. Their work accelerates the transition to a clean energy economy and they have funded
some interesting projects, but they do not accept unsolicited proposals or letters of inquiry No recommended
follow-up.
New York Community Trust. The division for their work here is the Westchester Community Foundation.
Like NYCT they have a Thriving Communities program which includes Protect Our Environment as a focus.
Activities include mitigating climate change and making communities more resilient to it. WCF will fund
local governments working in these areas. Some of their grants support: (1) promoting energy efficiency and
alternative sources of energy for buildings; (2) shifting to electric or low-emission vehicles; (3) promoting a
smarter, more resilient grid and distributed generation; and (4) reducing emissions from existing fossil fuelpowered facilities and extraction activities.
They have three grant rounds in 2021. The next Letter of Intent is due May 28. More information at www.wcfny.org/overview. Recent recipients include: Sustainable Westchester, for a community solar project for lowand moderate-income residents; Teatown Lake Reservation, to provide scientific and technical training to
volunteer environmental decision-makers; and Westchester Chamber Educational Foundation, to promote
environmentally sustainable business practices. The Thriving Communities Senior Program Officer is Tara
Seeley, (914) 948-5166 x 6, tseeley@wcf-ny.org. I recommend immediate contact and will be pleased to
initiate.

6

Fast Charging Systems [by Niall Kelleher]
Tesla created and operates the Supercharger network, which is exclusive to Tesla vehicles. Older
Superchargers support up to 150 kW and the new Version 3 supports up to 250 kW. Tesla also uses
some 72 kW dedicated stalls in metro areas. The 2020 mid-year Model S/X LR+ supports up to 250
kW charging, and the Model 3 and Y LR support 250 kW charging. The Model 3 and Y SR+ support
170 kW charging.
Combined Charging System (CCS) offers slow AC charging and the newest version offers fast DC
charging. For the rest of this article, we only consider the DC fast charging version for the
USA. Europe also uses CCS but has a different standard and different incompatible connector with
the USA CCS. CCS DC fast charge system can support up to 350 kW at 1000V. No current EV can
accept 350 kW, but the Porsche Taycan can accept 270 kW at 800V for a portion of its charging
session.
CHAdeMO also offers fast DC charging and has been mostly used by Japanese carmakers. The first
version supports up to 62.5 kW at 500V. There are no EVs that can use this rate and are really
limited to 50 kW or less due to the battery voltage. Version 2 goes to 400 kW at 1000 volts. We are
not aware of any EV that can accept anything close to this. The latest 2020 Leaf can accept up to 100
kW. Tesla offers a CHAdeMo adapter that can convert CHAdeMO to the Tesla connector up to 50
kW.
As the market for large EV trucks and buses develops, it is likely that a different charging system may
emerge to serve them. Pensky, for example, is developing a system for its EV trucks.

DC fast Charging Network Sizes
These are the reported counts in the USA as of June-2020. Some networks are somewhat vague as
to network size at a specific date.
Network

Power

Sites

Tesla

250, 150 kW, 120 kW, and 72 kW

824

Blink Charging

54 kW

Few

ChargePoint

62.5 kW and 50 kW

unstated

Electrify America

350 kW, 150 kW, 125 kW, 75 kW

429

EVgo

50 kW

unstated

* For most networks with multiple types, they do not specify the number of specific types. Some stalls
may offer multiple connection types.




Network Notes
Tesla’s Superchargers are mostly 150 kW with new installations using 250 kW. There are some older
120 kW stations, but Tesla is in the process of upgrading these. Some metro locations have 72 kW
unpaired stalls.
Blink is a large L2 network but offers very few fast-charging sites, and those are limited to 54 kW.
7



Electrify America’s most common new installations appear to be 150 kW with more CCS than
CHAdeMO.



EVgo is the first independent network that offers Tesla connectors in select locations.

Accessibility
Charge locations offer a mix of key travel routes and in-town charging for those that don’t have home
charging. A number of CCS and CHAdeMO charge sites are at car dealers. These sites are rarely
convent to owners. Dealer charging stalls are often occupied by dealer cars, or worse blocked with
the dealer’s ICE cars. Access to these stalls can be further limited to business hours and are
inaccessible after hours.

Growth
All networks are actively growing the locations and number of stalls. Some companies like
ChargePoint and Blink are mostly expanding in company parking lots with restricted access. Electrify
America’s network is funded with Dieselgate settlement money. The expansion could completely
stop when the money runs out next year.

Charging Costs
Many Tesla owners get Supercharger access for free. Newer owners do have to pay for
Supercharging. This chart covers the pricing of DC charging as of June-2020 for the major networks
in California. Pricing may vary in other areas.
Network

Connection Cost

Cost

Tesla

0

$0.28 per kWh

$14.0

Blink Charging

0

$0.49 per kWh**

$24.5

ChargePoint

0

$0.20 per kWh***

$10.0

Electrify America

0

$0.43 per kWh****

$21.5

EVgo

0

$0.30 per minute

$18.0

* Maximum Power is at the best location – there can be locations with less power and other than
Tesla, it can become more costly on per-minute plans or may become cheaper on per kWh
plans. Usable maximum power depends on vehicle limitations, the state-of-charge, and battery
temperature.
** With an account. No account cost is $0.59 per kWh or $29.50 for 50 kWh.
*** Rates from 6 pm to noon. Noon to 6 pm rate increases to $0.25 per kWh, or $12.50 for 50 kWh.
**** New rates as of Sep-2020 and varies by location. With a $4 per month fee, price drops to $0.31
per kWh

Interface

With Tesla, owners plugin and charge. With CCS and CHAdeMO you must navigate a terminal, use
a credit card or pre-authorized network card. There is a variety of charging pedestals, each with
different interfaces. There is no standardization in the industry. There are plans to try and duplicate
Tesla’s plug-and-play system, but it may be years away from being implemented across all the
different networks and EVs.
8

Connector Design
A teenager can easily lift and connect a Tesla charge connector. Tesla’s connector and cable is about
one quarter the volume and less than half the weight of the CHAdeMO connector and cable. The
CCS connector is even larger than the CHAdeMO connector! The CCS and CHAdeMO bulky
connectors can be a struggle for even an average adult to manhandle into place. It can be done, but
it’s not always easy.
Fast Charging DC Connectors

Reliability

No system is perfect 100% of the time, but Tesla has been diligent at keeping the Superchargers
working smoothly. With so many stalls at each location, a single stall failure is not much of a
concern. We hear far more complaints of broken CCS and CHAdeMO stalls, ones that remain
broken for long periods of time. With few CCS/CHAdeMO stalls at most locations, it can make for a
stressful hunt trying to find an alternative location.

Conclusion
I don’t know why the CCS and CHAdeMO are so poorly designed. One thought that keeps appearing
is the carmakers who support these systems want to make it as undesirable as possible. This helps
to keep EV sales limited and steer users to ICE. When you lose money on every EV sold, the goal is
to only sell enough cars to meet the compliance minimums.
Sources
Oddly, networks do not make finding the current network sizes easy. Here are the sources we used
for key data.

9



For Tesla locations and stalls we counted from source data provided by Supercharge.info for the USA
only.



Blink Charging – We could find no data on the number of fast chargers, and a spot check on the Blink
map showed very few fast DC chargers. They appear to be mostly focused on L2 AC charging.



ChargePoint data on fast charging



Electrify America’s map includes the latest counts.



EVgo Fast Charging Plans
---------Croton Sustainability Committee [by Dan Colombini, PE]
Heat Pump Water Heater Accessories and Ancillary Devices
Homes in New York use 17% of their energy consumption to generate domestic hot water. Energy efficiency
upgrades have long focused on thermal insulation, and heating and cooling systems. As we heat and cool our
homes more efficiently, water heating will become a larger share of overall energy consumption, and should be
addressed. One strategy to reduce water heating energy usage is to install more efficient water heating
equipment. As part of promoting the installation of high efficiency heat pump water heaters, some ancillary
installation items should be considered, as described here.

Hybrid Water Heater Heat Source and Storage Capacity
Most HPWH’s available for residential use are a hybrid design, combining a heat pump and backup traditional
electric resistance heater. The lower efficiency electric resistance portion is used during periods of high hot
water use, or if room temperature is too low for proper heat pump operation. Increasing storage capacity of the
water heater and ensuring adequate space heating will improve overall efficiency, by allowing more use of the
heat pump function.
Ancillary Considerations:
Heat traps and Anti-Siphon Valves
Heat traps are useful in many hot water systems in preventing thermo-siphoning. Hot water, being less dense
than colder water, will tend to rise up a vertical pipe. In some cases, this results in a considerable amount of
energy being removed from a hot water tank. The simple U-bend of a heat trap will limit hot water from rising
into a piping system. See diagram below for an example heat trap installation. The installation cost of heat trap
or anti-siphon valves are minimal.
Drainage and Leak Detection
HPWH equipment generates condensate that must be drained (see figure below). This requires a floor drain in
the area of the water heater, or a small condensate pump can be provided to pump condensate drainage to a
suitable location.
Many water heaters come with integral leak detection systems, or they can be provided separately. These will
detect the presence of water, either on the floor or in a drip pan under the equipment, and can initiate an alarm
via Wi-Fi. This can protect against damage from unnoticed leaks or failure of a water heater tank.
10

Condensate Pump Cost
Wi-Fi Leak Detector Cost (without auto-shutoff valve)

$100
$50-100

Expansion Tank
Most water heater installations require an expansion tank to prevent over-pressurization from thermal expansion
(see figure below). As part of installing a HPWH, the existing expansion tank’s condition should be checked,
and replaced if necessary. If there is no existing expansion tank, it is recommended to provide one.
Expansion Tank Cost

$200

Figure 1: Example Installation Detail for Heat Pump Water Heater

11

Houses of Worship – DHW and Solar potentials [Bernie Yozwiak]
Houses of
Worship
Facility
Contacts

Title

Facilities

Name

Description

Fuel

Type

Tank

Age

Rate

Mark Anzani

Kitchen within the main church building - this is a 30 gallon unit, town-gas-fired. It is
a new unit installed one year ago, so any replacement action would have to be cost
neutral to even consider doing something with that.

Con
Ed
Gas

Direct Fired
Tank

30
gak

1 year old

EL1

Jenny

In our church office building the DHW was provided by an oil burner system however, that unit broke down also around a year ago and because of financial
concerns we decided not to do an immediate replacement. As we are not running
programs out of the office with the pandemic, and given our rector and parish admin
can walk over to the kitchen if they need hot water, holding was not too much of an
issue. My intention once I have the money freed up is to replace the oil unit with an
on demand electric unit, as the water requirements in the building are small even
with programs in operation from there.

Oil

Direct Fired
Tank

?

Broken

EL1

We have a rectory on Piney Point. As our rector purchased a home of her own here
in Croton, to have more room for her growing family, we rent that building (tenant is
still clergy, to ensure our tax status remains simple). That is a central oil fired unit
that provides hot water for heating and domestic purposes. I don't have specs on the
unit etc - I would need to make a trip over to do that.

Oil

?

?

?

EL1

St.
Augustine's
Episcopal
Church
Rector

Our Saviour
Lutheran
Church

Temple Israel
of Northern
Westchester

Asbury
United
Methodist
Church

Pastor

Justin Johnson

No response

Facilities Contact
Temple
Administrator

Steve Krisky
Robin
Sasarowic

The boiler heats and stores water directly into a large water tank.

Oil

Direct Fired
Tank

68

Old

EL1

Pastor

Doug
Cunningham

There is a 40 gallon 4500 Watt Bradford White for the main building kitchen &
bathroom(s).

Elec

Direct Fired
Tank

40

Almost new
condition

EL1

Mart Caterino

We have 40 gallon 4500 Watt Reliance unit in the Education Building for preschool
bathrooms & classroom sink.

Elec

Direct Fired
Tank

40

Almost new
condition

EL1

The Wesley House has a 40 gallon "parasitic" heater which is set up as a "zone" of
the building"s oil burner which also provides heat for the building. That unit (as well
as the oil burner itself) also appears to be relatively new.

oil

Direct Fired
Tank

40

Good Condition

EL1

Facilities

12

Our Pastor's residence on Grand Street has a (quite old) gas fired water heater which
might be a candidate for replacement although it is not actually part of the
"campus".

Holy Name of
Mary
Catholic
Church

Unitarian
Universalist
Congregation
of the
Hudson
Valley

Ho
Parish
Administrator

Fr. Nelson

Church DHW is gas

Debbie Rago

Parish Ctr/school is electric

Member

Bernie Yozwiak

Member

Carl Grimm

Member

Teri Lukin

Member

Daria Gregg

Gas

Direct Fired
Tank

Quite Old

EL1

EL1

The UU do not want to invest anything in the Church as they will likely be moving

13

Croton Houses of Worship Flyover Solar Study – Feb. 16, 2021
Org
St Aug
Episcopal

HNM
Catholic

Location

Orientation

church roof
hall
hall
rectory
total
parish cntr

sw
se
sw
sw
sw

Note

up roof
lo roof front

total
Asbury
church
se
Methodist corner bldg
no good roof
hall
shaded
total
Our Sav
church
sw
Lutheran hall
sw
optimistic
total
Grand Total
Temple
right
s
already has solar
Jewish
top l
s
total
Unitarian
not keeping building
Grand Total with addition to Temple

ft-l

ft-w

ft2

48
48
48
32

12
8
9
12

576
384
432
384

76
64

36
16

2736
1024

64

24

1536
0
0

48
44

8
28

112
56

40
32

ft2

15W/ft2
W

kW

1776

26640

27

3760

56400

56

1536

23040

23

1616
8688

24240
130320

130

1792

26880

27

384
1232
24

0
1792

157

Total potential square footage needs to be at least 300 SF to attract solar developers.

14

