Special Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY was
held on Monday, February 22, 2021 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Habib
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simon

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Village Manager King explained that “Executive Order 203” was issued on June 12,
2020 calling for the creation of a “Police Reform and Reinvention Collaborative”,
communities were asked to bring together a “Task Force” consisting of members of
their community; Croton received thirty-eight applications and ten candidates were
chosen; the “Task Force” came up with a list of what we consider to be action items
for the Board to consider for adoption.
To view the entire draft, you may click on the following link.
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Draft_Plan%20(1).pdf
Village Manager King read the following action items recommended by the Village’s
“Police Reform Task Force” as follows:
1. The Department should endeavor to improve data collection on arrests, traffic
stops and calls for service.
2. The Department should endeavor to review and replace the uniform patch with
an image that would resonate with all residents of the Village.
3. The Department should endeavor to complete a review of all existing standard
operating procedures (SOPs) and place into effect any necessary changes (101-109
updated as of this report).
4. The Department should endeavor to create a social media presence, including,
but not limited to, on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
5. The Department should endeavor to increase police engagement with the
community through measures such as regularly held town hall meetings and
meetings with community organizations.
6. The Department should endeavor to engage the residents of the Village on a
regular basis through the formation of a Police Advisory Committee.
7. The Department should endeavor to increase foot patrols in high-traffic areas, as
well as bicycle patrols in appropriate areas.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 2

8. The Department should endeavor to increase interactions with the youth of the
community through means other than DARE, including trainings, seminars and
other programs to be developed.
9. The Department should endeavor to provide the public with information on what
training is received by the officers and whether said training is done semi-annually,
annually, etc.
10. The Department should endeavor to adopt an annual community-wide survey
that would provide data on the Department’s performance over the previous year.
11. The Department should endeavor to develop community outreach campaigns
which focus on safety and educating the public on crime prevention.
12. The Department should endeavor to review the civilian complaint procedures in
place and make a determination as to the feasibility of instituting a civilian
complaint review board (CCRB).
13. The Department should endeavor to create an annual report document detailing
compliance with the above recommendations and present same to the Village
Board of Trustees.
A motion to open the Public Hearing on the draft “Police Reform Plan” as required
by “New York State Executive Order 203” was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Habib and approved with a 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Teri Lukin, 5 Alexander Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that one of the action items
was to improve data collection on arrest and traffic stops and asked in what areas
was the data lacking and what improvements the Board hopes to see. Ms. Lukin
stated that she believes the Governor’s intent was that there would be some new
initiatives with respect to training and asked what the current level of training is
regarding de-escalation and addressing mental health issues and what the Police
Department is hoping to add.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that the data collection that we currently use is through
our current computer system, it does not collate as much data that we would like,
but it is a program that the Police Department has to use; since January 1, 2021,
one of our sergeants has initiated a new program that will collect additional data on
traffic stops irrespective of whether a summons was issued or just a warning. Chief
Nikitopoulos advised that every officer that is hired must go through an extensive
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 3

training program given by the Police Academy; we also do ongoing training in
firearms, first aid as well as having individual officers train on mental health issues;
last year, our Department began bias-training and will be looking into doing it again
this year, two of our Officers will be taking a class the beginning of March on bias
and de-escalation so that they can train our Officers and we will be working on
putting together a complete training schedule.
Mayor Pugh asked what percentage of people who are arrested by Village officers
are white and what percentage of “suspicious persons” reported are described as
white.
Chief Nikitopoulos referred to the graphs on page 56 and 57 of the draft report:

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 4

Carolyn Whiting, 7 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that Chief Nikitopoulos
and the Police Officers were extremely helpful during this process, it was a
collaborative effort with our Police Department who really want to work with our
community and get to know our community better.
Jessica Drukin, 26 Darby Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that in her personal
experiences different Officers who have responded to her home over the years have
had different approaches to handling a sensitive issue regarding her son and,
overall, the interactions have been good, but the last visit was not as good and
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 5

asked what the training is for Officers dealing with people who have emotional
challenges and is there specific training geared towards children.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that the Officers receive a lot of training while attending
the Academy, there is also in-service training through Westchester County that we
will try to do as well. Chief Nikitopoulos advised that the de-escalating training
touched on many issues including mental illness and in March two Officers who will
be our trainers will be going to school to learn other aspects so that they can train
our entire Department on these issues.
Mayor Pugh advised that this recent de-escalating training was given through
“NYMIR” (“New York Municipal Insurance Reciprocal”) who insures the Village.
Village Manager King advised that Westchester County is also offering a program to
help Officers deal with people with mental health issues. Village Manager King
advised that one of the recommendations is to make public the training each Officer
has done throughout the year.
Cathy Connelly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if there is any
discussion about D.A.R.E. being taken out of the schools. Ms. Connelly stated that
she disagrees with comments that having Police Officers in the schools make the
children uncomfortable.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that this is in the works for next year.
Maria Modica-Snow, 104 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, asked if there has been
any discussion of having someone other than a uniformed Police Officer respond to
calls when it is a mental health issue; some Officers may be better at handling
these types of situations and while it is not a judgement, she does not believe you
can train someone to be more empathetic and suggested having at least one Officer
on call who is better with kids or dealing with people with these issues.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that through the Governor’s Reform Bill they are asking
Police Departments to look into something like that, but generally on a call for
service a Police Officer responds, and it will continue that way for now. Chief
Nikitopoulos stated that we have tried to mix up the tours so that we have a bit of
old and new Officers on each tour and Officers who are better in different areas.
Teri Lukin, 5 Alexander Lane, Croton on Hudson stated that she has had only good
experiences with our Police Department. Ms. Lukin Stated that it seems that more
black and brown people are being arrested proportionally than white people and
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 6

asked the Chief to speak to that since that is the whole point of the “Executive
Order”.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that we are a commuter town, we have a lot of people
outside the area coming into our Village, the train station is a major hub, and if
someone commits a crime, we have to act on it.
Village Manager King stated that this is the reason why we want to start to collect
data so that we can start to look at this, those statistics are eye opening and the
only way we can improve, is to start tracking them and to see what they look like
six months to a year from now.
Debi Braddick, Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is happy that the
Police Department wants to continue working with the “Croton Caring Committee”,
as a Board Member she knows what they have done for our community and it has
made a big difference, over the last two years she has seen an openness among our
Police Officers and is also happy to see Officers engaging with the kids again. Ms.
Braddick suggested not only having a Police Officer respond when it is a situation
with someone with a special need but ask for a medic to respond as well.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL:
Daniel Bennett, 40 Van Wyck Street, Croton on Hudson.
I want to take this opportunity to opine on some of the content contained within the
draft "police reform" package that was circulated in advance of this meeting. By
way of background, a significant portion of my career falls within the field of law
enforcement, and I received a certification upon completion of prescriptive tactical
and investigative education at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center,
located in Glynco, GA. First and foremost, as a resident of Croton for the better part
of the last decade, I can state with a high degree of certainty, that the Croton on
Hudson Police Department does not require any sort of "reform." After having been
a member of various multi-agency task forces at the beginning part of my career, I
was afforded with a unique view into the operations of many departments, small
and large, as well as several state and federal agencies. As a result, I have honed
an accurate viewpoint on how to judge a law enforcement agency. To be clear, my
view of the CPD is that they are professional, well trained, and adequately serve the
citizens and visitors of this fine Village. The action items captioned on page 5 of the
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 7

draft plan contain certain elements that are beneficial, in addition to others that,
while well-intentioned, do not serve any significant purpose. While community
engagement is certainly necessary to foster a good working relationship between
the Police and the Community, particularly with the youth in our Community,
instituting a Civilian Complaint Review Board is beyond what is necessary for a
small Village. My experience with CCRB-type complaints is that, while some do hold
their merits, the vast majority do not. Indeed, the majority come due to the fact that
the complainant feels angry (subjectively) with the police. For instance, the NYPD
CCRB, which was created in the wake of the Michael Dowd scandal, was wellintentioned when it was created; however, at present, it serves strictly as a vehicle
for "permanently aggrieved" members of the public to lay the groundwork for an
eventual lawsuit that they know will be settled out of court for nuisance purposes. In
terms of the Village of Croton, there is no need for a CCRB to act as an intermediary
on behalf of the public; both the CPD and the Village itself are small enough such
that anyone can walk into the police station to complain directly to the Chief, as is
their right. Regarding traffic stops, I was intrigued to see that the race and gender
of the drivers are being recorded. After having lived in the Village for some time, I
have seen where the Police set up to observe for traffic infractions. One of the
places where they set up is on the Senasqua Road entrance to Route 9 North. How,
exactly, can an Officer who is set up at the top of the ramp identify anything other
than the make, model, and/or color of a vehicle that is speeding? It is impossible for
that Officer to observe the driver's race and gender from that vantage point, but the
SOP mandates that the vehicle stop be entered into the tracker to "identify potential
biases" such that "the department [can] better implement police strategies."
Ultimately, this will lead to a blanket "analysis" of compiled statistics instead of the
specifically focused, substantive review of the facts pertaining to each and every
individual (stressed: individual) traffic stop. Pretextual stops, also known as "Terry
Stops" are not only Constitutional (see: Terry v. Ohio, Whren v. United States, and
others), but are also a proven investigative tool. While they do use the lower
standard of "reasonable suspicion" as opposed to "probable cause," such
"reasonable suspicion" must still be articulable when determining the overall
allowability of the stop. For instance, if an Officer were to observe someone walking
down the street with a heavy winter jacket in the middle of the summer, it would be
reasonable (as set forth by virtue of the cases noted above) for the Officer to stop
and question the individual in an effort to ascertain the reason for their state of
dress. Does the subject suffer from a medical condition such as anemia, and as a
result, they are cold all the time; or is the subject potentially concealing a weapon
under the coat, and as such, presents a danger to the Community? A Terry Stop can
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 8

answer one or both of those questions. Stating that this "could lead to community
distrust" is short-sighted. With no disrespect intended to the ten members of the
Community who served on the "reform" committee, I am willing to bet that none of
them have received anything in the way of formalized course of police training,
given by an accredited police academy. While it is very noble to want to have the
best Police Department as possible, some of their recommendations, as wellintentioned as they may be, are simply not necessary in a small Village such as
ours. Others do not fit because of a potentially skewed view of policing. The Croton
on Hudson Police Department does an amazing job and does not require any
"reform." I trust them with my life, and so does my family. On the few times when
we have had the unfortunate need to call 911, the Police came, assessed the
situation, and were professional. They are an asset to this Village, and as I stated
earlier, one of the most adequately-serving agencies that I have ever come across.
To change the CPD is simply unnecessary.
BOARD DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon thanked the “Task Force” and Chief Nikitopoulos for all their hard
work, this process answered a lot of questions in terms of the rules and regulations
under which the Police Department operates, and while we can have a high level of
satisfaction in most areas, the Chief did indicate that continued improvement is still
possible and he is encouraged by what he is hearing in terms of the specific
recommendations that are part of the report and everyone’s willingness to look at
things like new data and new techniques.
Trustee Horowitz asked what the actual focus of the Report is, the initial part that
the Village Manager read is all about endeavoring and to her this means trying, and
later on in the report there is some actual real suggestions and asked how these are
connected.
Village Manager King stated that the Action Items summarize what the “Sub
Committees” recommended and suggested going through the thirteen action items
and indicate if they agree or disagree.
Board recommendations on Action Items:
1. The Department should endeavor to improve data collection on arrests, traffic
stops and calls for service.
The Board had no objections.
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 9

2. The Department should endeavor to review and replace the uniform patch with
an image that would resonate with all residents of the Village.
Village Manager King stated that everyone on the “Task Force” felt this was a good
idea and it was recommended to be through attrition, items would be replaced with
something new as items reach the end of their useful life.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that he agrees that this should be done through attrition
since it could be costly.
Trustee Simon said that he is in agreement with replacing it through attrition but
would like to see us approve a new one when we adopt the Report or that we make
mention that it is being worked on.
Mayor Pugh stated that he does not know that it can be done before April 1 st
especially if we are going to be reviewing different options.
The Board agreed that they will identify a replacement patch and announce a plan
for the implementation of its replacement.
3. The Department should endeavor to complete a review of all existing standard
operating procedures (SOPs) and place into effect any necessary changes (101-109
updated as of this report).
Chief Nikitopoulos advised that we are on the fourth phase with only one more
phase to be done and we plan on having it completed by April 1 st.
Trustee Horowitz stated that it seems there are still quite a few guidance points
coming from the State that were not reflected in the “SOP” and asked if they are
going to be looked at.
Village Manager King advised that she went through it closely and there are some
things that are not relative to Croton.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that we are putting this out in sections because we want
to give our Officers time to review them and sign off that they understand them.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that we are already doing some as we work towards the
“Accreditation” process.
Mayor Pugh suggested that we indicate that we will update the “SOP’s”, with the
ultimate objective of achieving “Accreditation”.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 10

Trustee Horowitz stated that the reference to “Accreditation” in #3 would be
appropriate.
4. The Department should endeavor to create a social media presence, including,
but not limited to, on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.
Mayor Pugh stated that we already have an adopted “Social Media Policy”, and the
consensus of the Board was that Departments and other sub-divisions of the Village
should not cultivate an individual presence and that the ability to post and/or edit
the Police Department page be limited to the Chief and the Lieutenants so that we
all stick to the same standard, quality and content.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she believes one of the reasons that recommendation
was made was to have a place for open dialogue and is not sure that the
Department’s current presence on the Village’s Web Site allows for that kind of
dialogue.
Mayor Pugh stated that in terms of it being inter-active, our “Social Media Policy”
does not view it that way and while people can comment and we do respond when
we can, it is mostly for information purposes and believes this is not the way to
communicate with the Village.
Village Manager King recommended that we just change the language to say that
there will be increased communications regarding Police activities on our existing
social media page.
5. The Department should endeavor to increase police engagement with the
community through measures such as regularly held town hall meetings and
meetings with community organizations.
Mayor Pugh asked that it be re-phrased to say, “one annual Town Hall meeting” and
then see where it will go.
6. The Department should endeavor to engage the residents of the Village on a
regular basis through the formation of a “Police Advisory Committee”.
Mayor Pugh stated that he envisions a “Police Community Council”.
Village Manager King stated that it would be helpful to have this, we have seen how
helpful the “Task Force” was and there are certain members who have a lot of
expertise.
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 11

7. The Department should endeavor to increase foot patrols in high-traffic areas, as
well as bicycle patrols in appropriate areas.
Mayor Pugh stated that he does not have objections and would like to manage any
expectations since this is going to be very tough to do on a tight Budget.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that when schools were in full swing, we had a lot of foot
patrols.
Trustee Habib asked what drove the strategy for bike patrols and what would be the
benefit for increased foot patrols.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that the initial foot patrols were put into place for the
Department to get out and mingle and interact with students, the bike patrol is a
good way to get into some of the parks and is more for community policing and
public inter-action but as the Mayor said, we may or may not be able to put it in the
Budget.
Mayor Pugh suggested that we say that we will manage expectations so that we
increase inter-action with the community out of normal patrol operations and that
the objective for a full restoration would be determined by the Budget.
8. The Department should endeavor to increase interactions with the youth of the
community through means other than DARE, including trainings, seminars and
other programs to be developed.
Village Manager King stated that this came out of the “School Committee” and they
have other ideas on how the Police can interact with students if they decide not to
continue with the DARE program.
9. The Department should endeavor to provide the public with information on what
training is received by the officers and whether said training is done semi-annually,
annually, etc.
Trustee Horowitz stated that the public really wants to know, not just the title of the
training, but what it actually is, and while she understands that it is hard to measure
if it impacts behavior on day to day interactions with the community, this is really
what the community is looking for.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that he agrees, and this is something that we are
developing now.
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 12

Trustee Habib asked if there was de-escalating and bias training prior to 2020 and
asked what the history is.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that a lot of the training that was done years ago had
different names, there has always been training available, but it has been
developed over the years; Police Officers are continually trained in all aspects of
policing, the Village’s insurance company also provided the Department training
last year.
10. The Department should endeavor to adopt an annual community-wide survey
that would provide data on the Department’s performance over the previous year.
Mayor Pugh stated that he does not see this as an issue, and we should coordinate
with an upcoming Town Hall meeting.
Trustee Horowitz asked if there is a way to get a larger sampling of the community
and to find a way to interface with our Hispanic community.
Village Manager King stated that the survey was mailed as a post card in English
and Spanish to every address in Croton; our Spanish speaking Officers did reach out
to the Spanish speaking businesses asking them to also reach out to their Spanish
speaking customers. Village Manager King stated that we know it was a small
sample size and we will try again to get more people in our community to respond.
11. The Department should endeavor to develop community outreach campaigns
which focus on safety and educating the public on crime prevention.
Board agreed.
12. The Department should endeavor to review the civilian complaint procedures in
place and make a determination as to the feasibility of instituting a civilian
complaint review board (CCRB).
Mayor Pugh stated that at this time he is not in favor of creating a “Civilian
Complaint Review Board” (“CCRB”) and feels that it would undermine what we are
trying to do which is to increase confidence and accountability, the more people
who are involved, the greater chance of a leak and it would be hard to track down
the source of the leak.
Village Manager King stated that she always thought it would start with the Police
Chief and if it could not be resolved on that level, the next step would be to come to
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 13

the Manager, but it would be important that we separate between a gripe or an
actual complaint about an Officer.
Trustee Horowitz stated that whenever there seems to be a discipline issue or a
complaint it pretty much stays in the Department and she is not sure that people
see that as transparency and having an actual “Civilian Complaint” procedure that
does not include the Police Chief or the Village Manager would be good.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that complaints are extremely low, we receive more
complaints over parking tickets and vehicle and traffic tickets because most people
feel that if they complain the ticket is going to go away. Chief Nikitopoulos
suggested that we come up with some sort of policy or procedure that if it is more
than a complaint about a parking ticket the Manager and Board would be notified.
Village Manager King stated that we need to formulize this so that if there is an
accusation about a Police Officer’s behavior something is put in their file and how it
was resolved.
Mayor Pugh suggested scratching the language on the “CCRB” until we can review
it further.
13. The Department should endeavor to create an annual report document detailing
compliance with the above recommendations and present same to the Village
Board of Trustees.
Village Manager King stated that this should be re-written based on the comments
this evening.
Trustee Horowitz said that there is a lot on this list, and we need to prioritize and
put in a timeframe, if there are areas that are more important than others, we
should give that message to the Chief.
Mayor Pugh suggested that the Manager and the Chief come up with an estimated
time-line on the implementation of these policies.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Habib and
approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:45pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
February 22, 2021
Page 14

______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

14

