Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, March 15, 2021 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Pugh asked for a moment of silence on the passing of Trustee John
Habib; John’s passing is a huge loss for the community, and on behalf of the
entire Board, he expressed his deepest sympathy to his family.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved
with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$92,938.44
$2,435.44
$1,303.23
$6,949.71
$5,292.50

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL
Leo Wiegman extended his condolences to the Habib family on the
passing of John Habib.
4. PUBLIC HEARING
A motion to open the Public Hearing to consider a renewal of a “Special
Permit” for “Smoke Town Discount”, located at 50A Maple Street was
made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Horowitz and
approved with a 4-0 vote.
Earl DePass, 10 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that back in 2018
an employee of “Smoke Town Discount” was arrested for selling an illegal
substance and he felt, at that time, the Board had an excellent
opportunity not to renew the permit and asked if there has been any other
arrests or criminal activity since then. Mr. DePass stated that because of

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 2

their packaging and marketing he feels that the entire industry is
targeting children.
Chief John Nikitopoulos stated that there has not been any other arrests at
that location.
Mayor Pugh stated that he understands Mr. DePass’ concerns regarding
the arrest, and it is something that we did look at carefully, but we were
told that this was not a basis to deny the “Special Permit”.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that, at that time, the Village did not
have a basis for denying their “Special Permit”, but after the “Special
Permit” was issued, the Village amended the Code to provide that these
uses cannot be within five hundred feet of a school or of another similar
type of use.
Written Comment:
Michael and Sandra Kolk stated that they oppose the “Special Permit”
because there are negative consequences to the health of people who use
these products.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Trustee Simon stated that while he is no fan of smoking and understands
the concerns, he believes that Mr. Jamal has run his business within the
parameters of our Code, the resolution speaks very well for itself in terms
of allowing him to continue and to remove the temporary nature of the
permit that has been granted previously based on his conduct as a
businessman.
Trustee Horowitz asked why we are considering making it permanent.
Village Manager King stated that it is easier on the business owner since
they do not have to keep coming back to the Board, but if the Board
wants to keep monitoring it then we can put a time limit on it.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she supports putting a time limit on it.
Resolution #36 of 2021
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 3

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit renewal
application from Ibrahim Jamal, the owner of Smoke Town Discount, located at 50A
Maple Street, for a non-conforming use in the C-2 zoning district; and
WHEREAS, on March 15, 2021, a Public Hearing was held and closed,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues a
special use permit for a three-year period to expire July 23, 2024 to Ibrahim Jamal to
operate a smoke shop at 50 Maple Street; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that this special permit is contingent upon the permittee
remaining compliant with all the rules and regulations promulgated by the New York
State Dept. of Taxation & Finance and the Westchester County Dept. of Health.
5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. E-mail from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated February 27,
2021 detailing membership changes in the Croton on Hudson Fire
Department.
b. E-mail from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary, dated February 27,
2021 requesting approval to hold their annual “Big Bucks Raffle” in
October of 2021.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz the
Board of Trustees approved the request from John Munson, Fire Council
Secretary, to hold their annual “Big Bucks Raffle” in October 2021.
Motion was approved with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee
Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh
Aye.
c. E-mail from Dennis Kooney of the Croton Yacht Club dated March 3,
2021 providing various documentation in accordance with the property
lease.

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 4

d. E-Mail from the Croton Harmon High School “Students Activism Club”
dated March 9, 2021 requesting use of “Vassallo Park” for the annual
“Take Back the Night” event to be held on Aril 29, 2021.
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Gallelli the
Board of Trustees approved the request from the Croton Harmon High
School “Students Activism Club” requesting use of “Vassallo Park” for
the annual “Take Back the Night” event, said approval is subject to
receipt of the necessary insurance documents. Motion was approved
with the following Roll Call vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
e. Letter from Sandra Bullock, Village Treasurer, dated March 11, 2021,
advising of her retirement date of July 30, 2021.
The Board stated that she will be missed, and they are sorry to see her
go.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Earl DePass, 10 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is against
the Village resuming business relations with “Hudson River Recreation” or
any other commercial enterprise wanting to run a Kayak rental program.
Mr. DePass stated that our “Croton River” is very fragile, and he does not
want to see the commercial exploitation of an important and fragile
resource that is already overused and should be protected by the Village;
the Village should value conservation over a small profit and be more
concerned with the opinions and the quality of life of its residents.
Tim Robinson, 15 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he does
not see how staggering starts will reduce traffic by 50%. Mr. Robinson
stated that he understands that there is traffic on the river from other
users, but he found that most of the traffic was from “Hudson River
Recreation” and does not understand why the Village cannot put ten to
twelve kayaks down there that the Village can rent so that we can have
control over the flow. Mr. Robinson stated that “Hudson River Recreation”
is up and down the “Hudson River”, but the “Hudson River” can take a lot
more of this abuse then the “Croton River”.
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
has used the rental service and believes it is a good thing to have and if
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 5

“Hudson River Recreation” sticks to keeping only half of their fleet on the
river at any one time as well as the Village raising the storage fees and
percentage of gross income, he believes it is a good deal for the Village.
Mr. Hamilton stated that when he led the “Trail Conference Conservation
Corps” we had “Aquatic Invasive Species Stewards” out there on
weekends and they told him that “Hudson River Recreation” wipes their
boats down, and they are conscious about invasive species and that it is
mostly people who just drive up to the launch that cause most of the
problems.
Tania McVeety, 182 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that this
has more to do with the fact that this is such a small area and believes it
does not do well to bring more people to this location, all this traffic has
forced residents to have to park elsewhere and believes that the
community has not had the opportunity to give sufficient input.
Written Comments:
Jim Miller, 18 Wolf Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that more space should
be allocated to racks so that any resident who wants to get a rack can get
one.
7.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #37 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS on March 1, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees adopted the Police
Reform Task Force Plan; and
WHEREAS one of the action items in the plan called for the creation of a Police
Advisory Committee,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that to encourage dialogue and promote greater
understanding between the Police and the community in which they serve, the
Board of Trustees hereby establishes a Police Advisory Committee; and
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 6

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such Committee shall be composed of between five
and seven Village residents, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of
Trustees to serve staggered three-year terms; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such Committee shall work with the Chief of Police
to implement an annual community-wide survey beginning in October 2021, and
each successive October, on the Police Department’s performance for the preceding
year; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such Committee shall advise the Chief of Police on
issues and concerns of interest to local residents, make recommendations regarding
recruitment and training policies and practices, undertake and organize educational
outreach initiatives, in conjunction and coordination with the Chief of Police, to
Village residents, particularly members of the Spanish-speaking and youth
communities, and assess the needs and priorities for the future law enforcement
administration of the Village.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that this follows our discussion from last week and our
support of the “Plan” and is the first step we have to take.
Trustee Simon stated that he feels that this is one of the best recommendations to
come from the “Plan” and believes we will see a lot of good results from it down the
road.
Trustee Horowitz asked where the language came from in terms of what the
activities the “Police Advisory Committee” will do.
Village Manager King stated that this came from the “Plan” itself where it talked
about establishing a “Police Advisory Committee” that would work on all the other
action items.
Trustee Horowitz asked if improving transparency between the Police Department
and the community would be under “Police Advisory Committee” or would it require
a somewhat different organization. Trustee Horowitz stated that one of the reasons
why municipalities were asked to come up with a “Reform Plan” was to increase
transparency and to establish accountability.
Mayor Pugh stated that if Trustee Horowitz is asking if this is going to have the
function of a “Civilian Complaint Review Board”, the answer is no. Mayor Pugh
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 7

stated that this was discussed prior to the adoption of the “Police Reform Plan”, and
it was specifically decided that we would not be doing that.
Trustee Horowitz asked if the Board took a vote on that.
Village Manager King stated that she thought we agreed that this would be
something for the “Police Advisory Committee” to review and to determine if a
“Civilian Complaint Review Board” would be a good thing for Croton, but she
believes that it was something the Board was not ready to make a decision on and
would be something that would be studied further. Village Manager King stated
that the “Police Advisory Committee” is meant to help the staff and the Police
Department work on some of those big ticket items that are going to take up a lot of
time.
Mayor Pugh stated that the original “Plan” did state that the Board would explore
the creation of a “Civilian Complaint Review Board”, but it is not something that he
personally supports and believes that it undermines the confidentiality of the
complaint process, but it is something that the “Police Advisory Committee” could
recommend down the line.
Trustee Simon stated that we did discuss the two of these in the context of each
other and we did make a decision that it was better to go forward with a “Police
Advisory Committee” as opposed to a formal “Review Board” and the last resolve in
the resolution outlines some of the things they are going to work on.
Village Manager King stated that it was left that Chief Nikitopoulos was going to
redo the disciplinary procedure and bring that to the Board for review and at that
point the Board could decide if they wanted additional oversight.
Resolution #38 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Sections 5-504, 5-506, and 5-508 of New York State Village law set forth
certain procedures and dates for the adoption of the annual Village budget; and

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 8

WHEREAS in accordance with Section 5-504 the Village Manager, as Budget Officer,
will file the tentative budget in the office of the Village Clerk on or before the
twentieth day of March; and
WHEREAS Section 5-508.3 provides that a public hearing shall be held upon the
tentative budget, as changed, altered or revised, on or before the fifteenth day of
April,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, March 29, 2021 at 4 p.m. to consider the
2021-2022 Tentative Budget; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #39 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 128-2020 on October
19, 2020, to permit the Village Justice Court to apply for grant funding through the
New York State Justice Court Assistance Program (JCAP); and
WHEREAS, the Village Justice Court has received the requested funding in the
amount of $3,397.13,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized
to amend the 2020-2021 General Fund Budget in the amount of $3,397.13 for
monies received through the New York State JCAP as follows:
GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A1110.3089 – State Aid – JCAP Funding

$3,397.13

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A1110.4200 – Justice Court – Supplies
A1620.1200 – Building – Personnel O/T

$1,176.11
$552.17
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 9

A8760.4000 – Emergency Disaster – Contractual
A9010.8000 – NYSERS
A9030.8000 – Social Security
A9031.8000 – Medicare

$1,514.26
$112.34
$34.24
$8.01

Resolution #40 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the New York State STOP-DWI Foundation has partnered with
Westchester County to target select holiday weekends throughout the year as
“STOP-DWI Crackdown Weekends”; and
WHEREAS this program enforces New York State Vehicle and Traffic Laws against
intoxicated and impaired driving (DWI/DWAI) in Westchester County; and
WHEREAS the program provides for reimbursement of expenses from Westchester
County for an amount not to exceed $10,000; and
WHEREAS, the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department would like to continue
participating in this program,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the STOP-DWI Crackdown Weekends Reimbursement Agreement with
Westchester County for the period between October 1, 2020 through September 30,
2021, for an amount not to exceed $10,000.
Resolution #41 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program was
approved by referendum in 2003; and

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 10

WHEREAS, in response to the outbreak of COVID-19, the Croton-on-Hudson Fire
Department adopted Special Response Rules restricting volunteer firefighter
responses to emergency responses and/or restricting the holding of activities for
which points could be earned; and,
WHEREAS in recognition of the negative effect these Special Response Rules has on
the ability of active volunteer firefighters to earn service credit during 2020 under
service award program point systems, New York State legislators and Governor
Andrew Cuomo enacted legislation intended to prevent active volunteer firefighters
who would have earned service award program service credit during 2020 from
failing to earn a year of service award program service credit during 2020 due to
the adoption of Special Response Rules; and,
WHEREAS this legislation, Chapter 113 of 2020 of the Laws of the State of New York,
authorizes the Village of Croton on Hudson to adopt a resolution to amend the
Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department Service Award Program point system by adding
a new category to the point system under which up to five (5) points per month
(prorated for periods of less than one month) may be awarded to active volunteer
firefighters during the period when the Special Response Rules are in place; and
WHEREAS Chapter 113 provides that the adoption of such resolution does not
require approval of Village residents at a Village election,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby adds the following new category to the Croton-on-Hudson
Fire Department Service Award Program Point System:
COVID-19 Pandemic of 2020
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department
adopted Special Response Rules under which the activities for which active
volunteer firefighters could earn points under the Service Award Program
point system were reduced effective as of March 16, 2020. From the effective
date of the adoption of the Special Response Rules through June 16, 2020, all
active volunteer firefighter members of the Croton-on-Hudson Fire
Department shall be awarded 5 points per month with such number of points
prorated for periods of less than a complete month, in accordance with the
duly adopted legislation contained in Chapter 113 of 2020 of the Laws of the
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 11

State of New York.
Resolution #42 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the State of New York has enacted legislation, Labor Law § 27-c, which
requires public employers to adopt a plan for operations if the Governor declares a
public health emergency involving a communicable disease; and
WHEREAS, the Village Clerk has prepared a health emergency plan in accordance
with the legislation; and
WHEREAS, the draft plan has been circulated to the collective bargaining units of
the Village, Teamsters Local 456 and the Croton Police Association, as required by
law for review and comment; and
WHEREAS the law requires the Village Board of Trustees to adopt the plan by
resolution,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
the Public Employer Health Emergency Plan for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Clerk shall post the adopted plan in the
necessary locations per the adopted legislation.
Resolution #43 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE ,SIMON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Nay, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye. Motion passed with a 3-1 vote.
WHEREAS Hudson River Recreation (HRR) operated a kayak business at the Echo
Canoe Launch for a number of years; and
WHEREAS the Village previously contracted with HRR to operate this business on
Village property; and
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 12

WHEREAS the last contract with HRR expired in 2019; and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees discussed the renewal of the contract at a
number of work sessions and ultimately decided not to renew; and
WHEREAS the decision not to renew the contract was made to observe the
conditions on the Croton River without the kayaking business at the Echo Canoe
Launch; and
WHEREAS the Village Board recently met with John Clark, owner-operator of HRR, at
a work session to discuss the return of the kayaking business; and
WHEREAS HRR has provided the Village with a proposed one-year agreement with
an option to renew for an additional three-year period at the mutual agreement of
both parties,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorize the Village Manager to execute the contract with Hudson River Recreation
for a recreational kayak program at the Echo Canoe Launch for the period of March
15, 2021, through December 1, 2021; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that HRR shall pay the Village $1,150 for use of the
storage area at the Echo Canoe Launch, plus the annual “Operation Fee” as detailed
in the agreement.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Horowitz stated that most of the other municipalities that host kayaking are
on the Hudson River and a bunch of kayaks are not going to make such an impact,
but the fact that the Croton River is such a small body of water there may be in fact
too much traffic that could affect the health of that environment and what does half
the kayaks translate to in terms of numbers, and how much money is the Village
actually going to make from this business arrangement.
Mr. Clark of “Hudson River Recreation” stated that the fifty percent reduction is to
focus on easing congestion and allow for a normal and natural flow and each launch
time is constrained to 50% of the fleet capacity so that we do not experience an
overload. Mr. Clark stated that he believes it is a good way to operate and is not
something he is planning on changing regardless of any changes in Covid.
Village Manager King asked Mr. Clark to give a better understanding of the number
of kayaks.
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 13

Mr. Clark stated that fifty percent of the fleet would be about a dozen recreational
kayaks, and a half dozen touring kayaks with only half being able to launch at one
time; historically, we have done about two dozen recreational kayaks and a dozen
touring kayaks.
Trustee Horowitz stated that it seems as though it will be the same number of
kayaks and asked how much money will be coming to the Village and is it worth it to
have a lot of traffic on a small body of water.
Village Manager King stated that it is approximately six to eight thousand dollars a
year, but the gross revenues are dependent on the weather, and if they are
operating at full capacity every day.
Trustee Simon stated that if you add up the annual fee of $1,150 that the Village is
getting and then the agreed upon eight percent of the gross revenue, which was
around eighty thousand last year, it comes to approximately $10,000.
Trustee Simon shared some questions relayed to him by one of the residents living
in close proximity.
1.
How would Mr. Clark respond to the comment that the “Croton River” is too
small for kayaks.
Mr. Clark stated that it is a difficult element to quantify but in terms of the outdoor/
recreation industry there is a balance between use and conservation, in order for
people to get out and value these places there has to be access, not everywhere is
a nature sanctuary but certainly overuse is something to be careful of. Mr. Clark
stated that it is easy for him to monitor and control the access, but the river itself is
open and discussions about conservation should be more specific with respect to
overall access, permits and fees as a total picture; over the years we have been
careful to come up with something that seems reasonable and that a business could
survive with as well as not ignoring the body of water.
2.

How does Mr. Clark’s safeguards help to protect the area?

Mr. Clark stated that the rigidity of their system is such that it forces clients to
adhere to a rather narrow window of compliance, we require the renters to return at
a specific time, we do not allow any alcohol on the river, all of our staff has the
ability to deny a rental if someone appears to be unfit, we are not attracting people
to come and party, we also have guide boats ready if a client does not return a
kayak on time and on a busy day we have staff patrolling the river.
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 14

3.

How does “Hudson River Recreation” collaborate with “Stewards” and what is
that relationship like?

Mr. Clark stated that his first interaction with a “Steward” was at age 18 and saw
first-hand their passion for conservation and their willingness to educate and it had
an impact on him and believes in the “Steward” idea as a real effective and
authentic way to change public behavior and to whatever extent he can do that, he
will. Mr. Clark stated that there are certainly opportunities for a collaborative
relationship, and it may be of benefit to get “Stewards” out on the water, and it
would be something that he would support in terms of use of equipment if that
would be something of interest.
4.

Trustee Simon said that we have a letter from our “Recreation Advisory
Committee” in connection with last year’s proposal for “Hudson River
Recreation” to continue and asked if Mr. Clark has worked with our
“Recreation Advisory Committee” in the past.

Mr. Clark stated that he has not worked directly with the “Recreation Advisory
Committee”, they were tasked at looking at whether or not we were a worthwhile
endeavor by the Village Board last year and through their discussion with residents,
they felt we were. Mr. Clark stated that he thinks the “Recreation Advisory
Committee” speaks for a profile of residents that may not be present at meetings
and does not believe that their letter of recommendation was made with any input
from him put rather something that was done outside his purview.
Trustee Gallelli thanked Trustee Simon for his questions, from her own experiences,
her family has used “Hudson River Recreation” and while she has never kayaked,
she has spent time down there watching her family and others coming and going
and found there was a great deal of supervision and education and in a sense more
eyes on the river with “Hudson River Recreation” being there and with the addition
of “Stewards” it is a plus. Trustee Gallelli stated that she feels the proposed
changes are good and it is appropriate for us to allow an opportunity for this to go
forward so that we can observe this for one year with an option to renew for three
years.
Mayor Pugh stated that there is language in the current draft of the contract about
“Hudson River Recreation” providing clean-up at the site on a daily basis and that
Mr. Clark would run the operation in an orderly manner and believes that the
staggering approach should mitigate that to a large degree.
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 15

Mr. Clark stated that he is happy to make this a priority.
Trustee Simon stated that it has been asserted to him that “Hudson River
Recreation” has not necessarily been the problem, but that there is a problem with
others who are not conducting themselves in the best way and creating sanitation
issues. Trustee Simon stated that we have to continue to work on those issues and
to separate those issues from what he regards as a good service that we should be
offering as part of a first class community that understands its relationship to the
environment, conservation and recreation. Trustee Simon stated that the Police
Department did an admirable job in trying to get a handle on those issues and he
hopes that it will continue and looks forward to speaking with the Chief during the
budget process about specific ways they approached this in the summer of 2019.
Mayor Pugh thanked Mr. Clark for addressing the Board’s concerns and also thanked
members of the public who spoke this evening; the Croton River is a place of unique
beauty that has private homes along both sides and it regularly has boat traffic and
what we are addressing is to make sure that the River serves the community
appropriately and managed to the benefit of the community. Mayor Pugh stated
that the Contract makes a good faith effort to address a lot of the issues that had
been raised in the past through the staggering of launches and the identification of
their boats as well as the commitment to tidy up the launch area. Mayor Pugh
stated that he also met with the Village Manager about adding more storage
capacity as well as looking at opportunities to expand parking south of the salt
shed. Mayor Pugh stated that we will monitor it, but this is a step to help people
enjoy the Croton River.
Resolution #44 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS on May 18, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees awarded Bid #2-2020 for
lawn maintenance services to La Teja Contractors and Landscaping, Inc., of
Ossining, New York; and
WHEREAS La Teja has submitted a request to extend the bid for the period of June
1, 2021, through May 31, 2022, as permitted; and
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 16

WHEREAS Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, has recommended that the
bid be extended for the above period,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to execute an extension with La Teja Contractors and Landscaping, Inc., for the
Village’s lawn maintenance program,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that all pricing and conditions as submitted in Bid
#2-2020 shall remain the same for the upcoming extension period.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS – none
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Special Meeting held on
February 22, 2021 was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on March 1, 2021 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote.
10. REPORTS
Trustee Horowitz advised that tomorrow evening at 7:00pm the “Diversity
and Inclusion Committee” is holding a community group discussion on
systemic racism; on Sunday she will be meeting with the “Girl Scout Daisy
Troop” who are working on their “Democracy Badge” and as part of that
they are looking into government and how it works, and she is looking
forward to talking with them.
Trustee Gallelli reported that the Planning Board had a marathon meeting
last week; they are working hard on many applications, they held a Public
Hearing on “25 South Riverside” and also talked about “41-51 Maple
Avenue” as well as recommending that the Village Board become the
“Lead Agency” which means that the Board can move forward on the
“SEQRA” process; tomorrow she will be attending a “New York Conference
of Mayors” (“NYCOM”) Webinar on the Federal Funding that was recently
passed.

16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 15, 2021
Page 17

Trustee Gallelli stated that we all miss our colleague John Habib and hopes
to have the opportunity to further commemorate him at a later time.
Mayor Pugh started that it is hard to believe that we will be at a meeting
without John Habib, he brought so much energy and so much compassion
and enjoyed his work on the Board, it is heartbreaking and extended his
deepest sympathy to his family. Mayor Pugh advised that the County has
designated “John Habib Day” this coming Wednesday which will be
displayed on their billboard at the County Center.
Trustee Simon advised that the “Rotary” voted last week to become part
of our “Slow Down Croton” campaign and will be making a generous
contribution to offset some of the costs associated with that program, last
week he and the Deputy Mayor had the honor to be present at the
“International Day of the Women” celebration at Shoprite and met with
numerous women leaders who were honored for their work, he attended a
Webinar on “Recycle Right” that was put on by the “Care for Creation
Committee” that featured our own “Conservation Advisory Committee”
Trustee Simon echoed comments made by the Mayor and Trustee Gallelli
regarding John Habib, we have a lot to learn from him, he had so many
more things to do and maybe we can pick up on some of those items and
make him proud of us.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote. 7:55pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

17

