Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
On Wednesday, January 13, 2021
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present: Christine Wagner, Chair
James Tuman
Alex Morales
Absent: Mark Aarons
Doug Olcott
Also Present: Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order: 8:02 p.m.
Chairman Wagner called the meeting of the Zoning board of Appeals on January 13, 2021 to
order.
2. Joseph G Thompson Architect, PLLC, representing Michelle Gionti (property owner) --18
Penfield Avenue--Located in the RA-5 One Family Residential District and designated on
the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton -on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 3 Lot 60.
Request for a front yard variance from Section 230-33(A) for a proposed new covered
porch.
Present: Joe Thompson, architect; Michelle Gionti, homeowner
Mr. Thompson explained that the house is ranch-style, and the owner has been renovating it
since she moved in the past year or so, and she now would like to add a covered porch in the
front. The variance requested is a 5-foot front yard variance.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comments from the public, the
public meeting was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The architect pointed out that there are houses in this neighborhood that have similar
front porches and the proposed porch will enhance the look of the house. The location
of the property line gives the perception that the setback is bigger than it is.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.

The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that a front porch that can be practically used has
to have this variance or it would be too small.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the requested variance is not substantial
particularly given the appearance of where the property line is.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board of Appeals noted that other houses in the neighborhood have front
porches and the proposed porch will enhance the aesthetic of the house.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the alleged difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a five-foot variance of a 15 ft. setback for the
proposed porch, seconded by Chairman Wagner and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0, all in
favor (ROLL CALL: Wagner AYE, Tuman AYE, Morales AYE) Absent: Aarons, Olcott
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner noted that there is not a quorum to vote on the minutes, and therefore the
members agreed to hold over approval of the minutes until the next meeting in February.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:12 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

