Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
On Wednesday, December 9, 2020
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present: Christine Wagner, Chair
James Tuman
Doug Olcott
Mark Aarons
Vacancy
Also Present: Ann Gallelli
Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
1. Call to order: 8:04 p.m.
Chairman Wagner called the meeting of the Zoning board of Appeals on December 9, 2020 to
order.
a) Stehlin, Jessie B. and Jean-Claude--79 Radnor Avenue--Located in the RA-5 OneFamily Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 79.05 Block 4 Lot 45. Request for front and side yard variances from
Section 230-33(A) for existing house.
Ms. Jessie Stehlin, owner, stated that her house was built in 1935, and when the Engineering
Department had reviewed the survey for a title insurance search, it was determined that she
needed a front and side yard variance for the existing house. Ms. Stehlin is preparing the house
for sale.
Chairman Wagner opened the application for public comment, and there being no comment
from the public, Chairman Wagner closed the public hearing.
The Zoning board reviewed the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

There will be no change in the character of the neighborhood since there is no work being done
on the house; granting the variance is legalizing an existing non-conformity.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
There will be no change to the existing house. No construction is being done.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
1

The requested variance is de minimis.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
There is no change being proposed; the location of the existing house has had no adverse
effect or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood; the house has
been non-conforming for a long time (since 1935).
5. The alleged difficulty was not self-created.
The house has been non-conforming since it was built.
MOTION: Mr. Aarons made a motion to grant the 0.15 ft side yard variance, and the 2 ft. front
yard variance, seconded by Mr. Olcott, and carried by a vote all in favor 4-0. (ROLL CALL:
Wagner AYE, Aarons, AYE, Tuman AYE, Olcott AYE)
b) Ganzman-Shafei-- 35 Observatory Drive--Located in the RA-9 One-Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
as Section 79.09 Block Lot 30. Request for front and both side yard variances from
Section 230-33(A) for a proposed front porch.
Ms. Ganzman stated that they would like to maintain the front entrance and improve the
aesthetic appeal to conform with the rest of the neighborhood. The front steps have deteriorated
and they want to improve the safety of the front steps too. The proposed porch will have a shed
roof over it, and will span the front portion of the house but the depth will be the same.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing.
Mr. Gregory Olmstead, 33 Observatory, stated that they were fully in support of the proposed
porch and that front porches are a great addition to the neighborhood.
Mr. Stephen Cappelli, 35 Observatory Drive, also stated that he was absolutely in support of the
porch and thinks it is a great idea.
There being no further comment from the public, Chairman Wagner closed the public hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

2

The applicant pointed out in the submitted photographs for her application that other houses in
the neighborhood have front porches. Two neighbors spoke in support of the application during
the public hearing, and the next-door neighbor emailed their support of the application.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed porch was not any closer to the street, and would
enhance the aesthetic appeal of the house and the neighborhood.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning Board agreed that the depth of the porch was not changing, and the requested
variance is not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed porch would enhance the neighborhood. Other
houses nearby had received variances for front porches. The applicant also noted that the front
steps were deteriorating and that the proposed front porch would create a more safe front
entranceway.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed porch was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to approve the 4.1 ft. front yard variance, and the 0.3 ft
total side yard variance, seconded by Mr. Tuman, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 all in
favor (ROLL CALL: Wagner AYE, Aarons, AYE, Tuman AYE, Olcott AYE)
c) Minoff, Jack -- 92 Mount Airy Road South-- Located in the RA-40 One-Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-hudson
as Section 68.13 block 2 Lot 29. Request for side yard variance from Section 23040(A)(1)b for an existing shed located on the property line.
Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer, spoke on behalf of Mr. Minoff who was unable to
access the Zoom video conference. The shed has been in its current location since 1973, had
been destroyed and then rebuilt. The shed was unintentionally placed on the property line and
an easement was filed in the Engineering department by the owners allowing the shed to stay in
its present location. The easement specifies that upon the destruction of the shed, the shed
won’t be allowed to be rebuilt.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing.
3

The neighbors, Joe and Kenna Weiner of 94 Mt. Airy Road, stated that they fully support
keeping the shed in its current location and that Mr. Minoff is a great neighbor. The shed in its
current location has no negative impact on them.
There being no further comments from the public hearing, Chairman Wagner closed the public
hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The Zoning Board of Appeals noted that the neighbors have no objection to the shed being in its
current location.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The shed has been its present location since 1973 and the shed would have to be destroyed in
order to move it from its present location.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
The Zoning Board agreed that the requested variance is the full 5 feet from the property line so
the request is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board of Appeals noted that the shed has been in its current location for a long time
and has had no impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood. The
neighbors have expressed no objection to the shed’s current location.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Aarons made a motion to grant the variance allowing for 0 ft setback for the
accessory shed structure provided that, in the event that the current shed is destroyed by fire or
other means, the shed cannot be built in the same location and a new shed must be placed on
the property of 92 Mt. Airy Road South and cannot encroach on the neighbor’s property. The
granted variance shall be extinguished upon the removal of the shed.
Mr. Olcott seconded the motion, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 all in favor. (ROLL
CALL: Wagner AYE, Aarons, AYE, Tuman AYE, Olcott AYE)
4

d) Lui, William -- 104 Maple Street-- Located in the RB Two-FAmily Residential District
and designated on the TAx Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.05
Block 5 Lot 25. Request for total side yard and lot width variances from Section 230-34
for the conversion from a two-family home to two single family homes.
PRESENT: Mr. Dan Pancotti, attorney, and Mr. William Lui and Ms. Jeanie Liu, owners
Ms. Liu stated that the existing parcel has a two-unit building, and they are requesting a
variance for a potential lot line to split the lot into two parcels. Each lot needs 50 ft. (each lot is
37.56 feet), off slightly on each side (almost identical, a little different) and they are requesting a
total side yard variance as well.
Mr. Pancotti, attorney for the applicants, stated they are not looking to make any changes to the
property in its appearance but the goal is to sell two separate homes instead of rent.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing for public comments.
Stephanie Duval, 106 Maple Street (next door), stated that there is a concern that it is kept
aesthetically the same way, neither sideways or up as this would take away from the
neighborhood. She did not want to lose any more side yards nor have the building any higher.
The Zoning Board responded that the Planning Board could discuss fence options during the
subdivision process. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer, stated that the homeowners
would have to return to the Zoning Board for an additional variance if they wanted to expand
sideways.
There being for further comments from the public, Chairman Wagner closed the public hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The variances will not result in any change to or addition of any new structure and would simply
allow for separate ownership of the already separate living spaces.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Mr. Pancotti acknowledged that the owners could turn this two-family house into a
condominium, but that alternative is more expensive and without benefit to the village. They are
not looking to make any changes to the appearances of the houses. Instead of two renters in a
two-family home, they are hoping for two new family owners of two individual houses.
5

3. The requested variance is substantial.
The requested variance is substantial since the single lots do not have the full 50 ft. lot width,
and there is a 0 ft. side yard (because the houses are attached) setback.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
As noted in Factor 1, there will be no changes to the property in its appearance and no building
construction is currently being proposed. Mr. Pancotti pointed out that there had been similar
subdivisions at 157159 Maple Street and dating further back, at 160 Maple Street.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
The applicants could continue to rent the two units, so the alleged difficulty was self-created.
The Zoning Board noted that this application still has to go before the Planning board and it is in
the Planning Board’s purview to ensure that there are conditions for the subdivision and that
there are separation of utilities, and any easements or agreements are required.
MOTION: Chairman Wagner made a motion to grant the variance for the proposed north and
south parcels: north lot width 12.6 feet with the side yard 8 ft. shared wall, and total side yard
variance 5.6 ft. and south lot width 12.57 feet; side yard 8 ft variance, required total 4.6 feet,
with the conditions that there is no expansion of footprint, no increase in elevation and that
these conditions are part of the subdivision application to the Planning Board. Mr. Olcott
seconded the motion, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0. (ROLL CALL: Wagner
AYE, Aarons, AYE, Tuman AYE, Olcott AYE)
d) Raskob, Elke and Casey-- 34 Lounsbury road--Located in the RA-40 One-Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
as Section 67.20 block 2 Lot 38. Request for a height variance from Section 23040A(1)(a) for a proposed new detached garage and for a variance from Sections 23040A(1) and 230-40B for an existing shed in the front yar and closer to the street than the
principal building.
PRESENT: Mr. Casey Raskob, homeowner, and Ms. Julie Evans, architect
Ms. Evans explained that they are requesting two variances: a front yard variance for existing
shed (which predates ownership by the current homeowners) and is located in front of principal
dwelling. The owners would like to keep the shed and make it legal and the second variance is
for a height variance for the proposed new garage.

6

Ms. Evans explained that the Raskobs have no basement, no attic space, no storage, and they
are proposing a 3-car garage, workshop on the main level and 28 ft deep garage and 22 ft. on
the side facing the house.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing to public comment.
Mr. Ken Davies, 35 Lounsbury, stated that he believes the proposed garage looks like a house
and does not seem to be in keeping with the neighborhood due to its size and mass.
An email from a neighbor was sent in support of the application.
There being no further comment from the public, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The majority of the Zoning board of Appeals agreed that there would not be an undesirable
change in the character of the neighborhood since the proposed garage was behind the main
house and downhill to minimize the height and mass. Some of the members pointed out that
the neighbor expressed concern with the width of the building however the width would not
require a variance and can be constructed as of right. Mr. Aarons stated that the scale and
mass of the garage might be seen as undesirable. There is no undesirable change in the
character of the neighborhood for the existing shed.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board discussed removing the top storage area of the garage but would not have
the same aesthetic results and would reduce storage areas. The benefit sought by the
applicant for the proposed garage cannot reasonably be achieved and the same for the existing
shed.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning Board agreed that the requested variance is not substantial because of the
elevation of the proposed garage. The shed variance is not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board members noted that there is a gorge and wooded area behind the proposed
garage; there is no home behind the proposed garage. The height is mitigated because of the
7

slope of the land; therefore, the variances for the proposed garage and shed will not have an
adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or
district.

5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
The Zoning Board agreed that the alleged difficulty for the proposed garage was self-created.
The alleged difficulty for the shed was not self-created (existing).
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant the variance for the shed to be in front of the
principal structure, and to grant a front yard variance of .8 feet, seconded by Mr. Aarons, and
the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0. (ROLL CALL: Wagner AYE, Aarons, AYE,
Tuman AYE, Olcott AYE)
Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant the 5.6” height variance for new accessory garage, Mr.
Olcott seconded the motion and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0, all in favor. (ROLL CALL:
Wagner AYE, Aarons, AYE, Tuman AYE, Olcott AYE)
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Aarons made a motion to approve the ZBA minutes of November 12, 2020, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Olcott, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

8

