Minutes of the
Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on
Wednesday, October 14, 2020
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present:

Christine Wagner, Chairman
Jim Tuman
Len Simon
Doug Olcott
Mark Aarons

Also Present: Ronald Wegner, P.E./ Assistant Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting for October 14, 2020 to
order at 8:03 p.m. This meeting was conducted via Zoom video conference because
the Village Hall is closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Vlad, William -- 40 Darby Avenue-- Located in the RA-5 One-Family District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.09 Block
9 Lot 26. Request for rear yard variance from Section 230-40A(1)(b) for an existing
shed.
Mr. Vlad, applicant, explained that when he bought his house in 1991, there was an old
aluminum shed that he had replaced with the current shed. He had not realized that it was 2.5
from the property line instead of the required 5 ft. for an accessory structure. He would like to be
able to keep the shed where it is if a variance could be granted.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comments from the public, the
public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1. 4. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
Mr. Vlad explained that a shed has been in this location even prior to his ownership of the house
in 1990. He replaced it in 1991 and has maintained it in good condition. The neighbors have not
had any complaints with the shed; one neighbor has a garage near the property line, and on the
other side a neighbor had a garage (later converted to a living space.). One of the neighbors
has even used his shed for temporary storage of items.

1

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Mr. Vlad stated that he is requesting the variance so that he won’t have to tear down the shed or
move it. The shed has a poured concrete pad underneath it and it would be difficult to remove.
There is a gravel area next to the shed to help with water runoff since this part of the property is
in a low spot in the backyard.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
The Zoning Board agreed that the variance is substantial since the applicant is requesting a 2.4
ft. variance.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board agreed that the shed has been in this location for many years and the
neighbors have had no objections to the shed. The gravel area has helped with water runoff.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created
The Zoning Board agreed that it was important to bring the shed into compliance but the
difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Simon made a motion to grant a 2.6 ft. side yard variance for the existing shed,
seconded by Mr. Tuman, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor (Roll call:
Chairman Wagner AYE, Mr. Olcott AYE, Mr. Simon AYE, Mr. Tuman AYE, Mr. Aarons AYE)
b) Talley, Dana-- 34 Prospect Place--Located in the RA-25 One-Family Residential
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
67.20 Block 4 Lot 21. Request for a side yard variance from Section 230-33A for a
proposed deck.
Ms. Sohee Shin, daughter-in-law of Mr. Talley, homeowner, stated that the family had
previously requested a 16’ x 24’ deck with a privacy screen, however, based on the concerns of
the neighbors at 40 Prospect (on behalf of one of their tenants), the applicants changed the
size of the deck to 12’ x 24’ with the privacy screen. They are requesting a 9 ft. 6” side yard
variance. Ms. Shin reiterated that the deck is solely for the purpose of allowing the family to sit
and enjoy the outside and will not be used for entertaining guests.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no further comments from the
public, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

2

The applicants explained that by reducing the deck size and orienting the deck at an angle from
the property line (instead of the original perpendicular line), in addition to the privacy screen and
the existing large tree, the view from the deck is blocked both ways between the neighbors.
Initially, the owner of the town houses expressed concern on behalf of their tenants, but with the
reduction of size and deck orientation, and privacy screen, Ms. Shin said they believe they were
complying with what the neighbor had requested.
The air conditioning unit will be placed under the deck so there will be no cutouts from the deck
as previously shown.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Ms. Shin explained that given the location of the house, they believed this was the best place to
construct a deck. In the front there is a yard, on the south side there is a driveway on the side
of the house in addition to a large window. They believed that the deck would obstruct the
window and limit light. They were concerned also that a deck’s footings might also interfere with
drainage lines near the house.
They consulted with an architect and were told that this was a good location for a deck since
two trees screened the deck.
3.

The requested variance is substantial.

The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the requested side yard variance of 9.6 ft is
substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board members noted that the applicant had made an effort to comply with the
request of the neighbor and had taken the neighbors’ concerns into consideration resulting in a
reduced size of the deck. The fencing, screening from the trees, and the roadway between the
properties mitigates the concerns of the neighbors.
The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact
on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
The Zoning Board agreed that the difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Aarons made a motion to grant the 9.6 ft. side yard variance, seconded by Mr.
Tuman, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 in favor and one abstention (Mr. Aarons).

3

c) Spagnoli, Philip--3 Cleveland--Located in the RA-9 One-Family District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as SEction 79.13 block
4 Lots 19, 20. Request for front yard variances from Section 233-33A for proposed
additions to the house (on Cleveland Drive side and on Franklin Avenue side) and a
variance from Section 230-40A(1) for accessory structures in the front yard on Franklin
Avenue side.
Mr. Phil Spagnoli, owner, Kory Salamone, attorney for the applicant, and Ciprian Captan,
architect, were all present at the Zoom video conference.
Mr. Captan stated that the applicant was proposing a different design than previously submitted
in July and that had been approved. The design presently takes a much more modern
approach and now they are proposing two structures, the main building in front and an ancillary
building in the back. The owners are trying to take advantage of the existing two-story structure
(saving some of the foundation of the original house) and proposed is a one story structure
connected with a terrace (half is covered with a pergola and half is open).
Mr. Salomone, attorney for the applicant, stated that based on a provision of the code, the
setback applied for the accessory structure can be reduced because an applicant does not need
to provide a setback that is greater than any two residences on the block (section 230-40(e)3).
He noted a couple of properties in this neighborhood that do not follow the setbacks for a 25 ft.
frontage setback. Based on code, the non-conformity has been reduced from the original
setback request. For the house, the applicant has decreased the non-conformity from the or
On the Franklin Avenue side, the variance request is not as substantial as originally proposed.
On the Cleveland Drive side, the current proposal has reduced the degree of non-conformity as
compared with the previous application.
Chairman Wagner opened the meeting for public comment.
Cynthia and Bill Plater, 9 Cleveland Drive, stated that their house is directly across Franklin and
had sent in a letter to the ZBA. They stated that they believe the auxiliary structure (work
space) is an excessive size, and the double car garage does not fit in with the neighborhood.
Susan Dorien, 1 Franklin Avenue, stated they live directly across the street, and although want
to be good neighbors, they were concerned that there might be commercial work going on in the
workspace. She also stated that the terrace around the house seemed out of character with the
neighborhood and the entire house seemed too modern and too big.
Pete Sedlmair, 1 PIney Point, stated he lives right behind the house, and stated that it appeared
to him that the style of the house seemed out of place in the neighborhood but he
acknowledged that this might be a matter of preference. He expressed concerns about the new
structure being too large for the neighborhood and that the design did not fit into the
neighborhood.

4

Brad Kennedy, 1 Cleveland, stated he lives directly next door. He noted that the house design
was definitely a change for the neighborhood and seemed like a larger change from what is
existing, but acknowledged that he believes that the applicant does very nice work. He
wondered if it could be downsized to fit into the neighborhood.
Debi Braddock, 9 Young Avenue, stated that her daughter and son-in-law were the applicants
and asserted that the proposed house was definitely not going to be used for any commercial
purposes. She stated that each parent had a car, hence the two-car garage. She pointed out
that not every home has to look alike and the applicants would be excellent neighbors.
Chairman Wagner summarized for purposes of clarification the variance requests for those
attending the public hearing: for the existing house, the proposed two-story addition will
encroach into the 25’ setback, both on the Cleveland Drive and Franklin Avenue sides. The
proposed accessory structure (workshop) on the Franklin Avenue side and the garage (also
considered an accessory structure) on the Cleveland Drive side require variances from setback
requirements as they are closer to the streets than is given as of right by the zoning code. A
variance from the code which states that an accessory structure cannot be in front of the
primary structure is also being requested for the garage.
In response to a question about whether terraces meet code requirements, the Assistant Village
Engineer stated that there is nothing in the zoning code or building code that restricts terraces
on a second story.
Mr. Salomone pointed out that aesthetics and design review is not in the purview of the Zoning
Board of Appeals. He reiterated that this is a single-family home and the terrace and walkway is
permitted under the zoning code. The application is for a request from the required setbacks
and many of the houses in this neighborhood encroach in the front yard. The aesthetics appear
to him to be the primary concern of the neighbors. Mr. Salomone also explained that there will
be a consolidation subdivision to merge the two lots.
Mr. Simon asked the applicant what his reaction is to Ms. Plater’s suggestion that the shed (or
workshop space) be placed in the far corner of the property. Mr. Spagnoli stated that this new
rendition is what they envision for the phase of his family’s lives and is being built as their family
home. He stated that he does not bring any commercial work to his home since he has a large
facility up north. The accessory structure is for sports equipment and garden equipment, since
the garage is for their two cars. The proposed house does not have an attic nor a usable
basement area. He agreed that the accessory structure could be made smaller since it works
with the architectural drawings.
Chairman Wagner stated that the public hearing will be kept open and a site visit will be
arranged. Mr. Spagnoli will stake out the property for metes and bounds.
d) Jaeger, Andrew and Laura (contract vendee) -- 123 North Riverside--Located in the
RB Two-Family Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of
5

Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.20 Block 4 Lots 6, 10.1. Request for a frontage
variance from Section 230-4 for a proposed single-family dwelling.
Mr. Andrew Jaeger, applicant stated that he is in contract to combine the two lots for the
purpose of building a single family home for development purposes on Lot 10.1. There is an L
shaped lot (Lot 6) which accesses the main part of the property. A 20 ft frontage is required for
a single-family dwelling in this zoning district and there is only 18 ft. of frontage.
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment
to nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The long driveway which has existed since 1905 is continuously 18 ft. (all the way up to the
curve) and is part of lot 6. The driveway is shared by the neighbor in agreement with the
previous landowner. The two lots will be consolidated as one lot.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a
method feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location
proposed.
The Zoning Board agreed that there is no other way to access lot 10.1 without granting the
variance of 2 ft for the frontage. Lot 10.1 is landlocked, and one must use lot 6 to be able to
access lot 10.1. There is no traditional frontage for lot 10.1.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning Board agreed that the requested variance of 2 ft. for a required 20 ft. frontage is not
substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the
physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board asked about the access for emergency vehicles to get through, and Mr.
Jaeger responded that he had spoken with both the architect and the Village Engineer and the
30 ft. width should be wide enough for emergency vehicles to get to the house. Chairman
Wagner noted that access to emergency vehicles will be addressed by the Planning Board
during minor site plan approval.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
The Zoning Board agreed that this difficulty was not self-created as it has existed since 1905
and was previously a road (Hudson Road).
MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant the 2 ft frontage variance, seconded by Mr. Simon,
and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0 (Chairman Wagner AYE, Mr. Simon AYE, Mr. Olcott
AYE, Mr. Tuman AYE, Mr. Aarons AYE).
a) Franzoso, Mark--23 Nordica Drive-- Located in the RA-25 One-Family
District designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
6

as Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot 64. Request for lot area variance from
Section 230-33(A) of the Village Zoning Code for a proposed new onefamily residence. Request for adjournment to September meeting.
Ms. Jody Cross, attorney and Mr. Dan Ciarcia, P.E. were present for the videoconference.
Ms. Cross explained that she had been here at the May 13, 2020 meeting and the public
hearing had been closed on that date. At the June 10, 2020 meeting, the Zoning Board had
wanted to understand whether or not a precedent would be created and if there were similar
undersized parcels in the village and similar variances granted. There were 245 vacant parcels,
none could claim a similar variance. As noted in the documents submitted, it appeared to the
applicant that granting the application would not create a precedent and that the benefit to the
applicant outweighs the impact to the neighborhood. The proposed single-family dwelling is
consistent with the development of the neighborhood. With the uniqueness of the lot, and the
non-precedents set of facts, the applicant respectfully requests that the ZBA grant the variance.
Chairman Wagner noted that it was very helpful and detailed and she appreciated what was
submitted. The documentation submitted helped the ZBA to understand the neighborhood, how
unique this request can be considered, and that there is no precedent for denying or granting a
variance of this kind. The Zoning Board members concurred with Chairman Wagner and stated
that the data is very useful.
Chairman Wagner noted that the public hearing had been closed. The Zoning Board reviewed
the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment
to nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The Zoning Board agreed that that the granting of this variance would not increase other
development on the street and that there would not be an undesirable change. This is
the only variance of this type of situation.
Mr. Aarons expressed concern that the new construction might be too close to the
neighboring property. The majority of the Zoning Board noted that the house can fit
within the lot. The applicant will be building a house that conforms to the side, front and
rear yard setbacks.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a
method feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location
proposed.
The Zoning Board agreed that there is no other alternative.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning Board of Appeals members pointed out that the 706 ft (7.5%) is not
substantial.

7

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the
physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed variance will not have an adverse effect on
the neighborhood since it is consistent with the fact that there are other small lots in the
neighborhood. The Zoning Board of Appeals will leave it to the Planning Board to bring
the house plans to the next stage.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
The Zoning Board agreed the difficulty was self-created since the applicant desires to
build a house.
MOTION: Chairman Wagner made a motion to grant the 706 ft. lot area variance, with the
added condition that no other request for a variance will be needed, seconded by Mr. Simon,
and the motion carried by a vote of 3 in favor, 1 dissent, and 1 abstention. (Roll call: Chairman
Wagner AYE, Mr. Simon AYE, Mr. Tuman AYE, Mr. Olcott NAY, and Mr. Aarons ABSTAIN).
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes of September 9, 2020, seconded by
Mr. Simon and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 with 1 Abstention (Mr. Aarons).
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
11:00 p.m. It was noted that the next ZBA meeting falls on a Village holiday (Veterans’ Day)
and it was agreed that the November meeting will take place on Thursday, November 12, 2020
at 8:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

8

