Minutes of the
Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on
Wednesday, November 12, 2020
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present:

Christine Wagner, Chairman
Jim Tuman
Len Simon
Doug Olcott
Mark Aarons

Also Present: Ronald Wegner, P.E./ Assistant Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting for November 12, 2020
to order at 8:03 p.m. This meeting was conducted via Zoom video conference because
the Village Hall is closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. NEW BUSINESS
c) Spagnoli, Philip--3 Cleveland--Located in the RA-9 One-Family District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 block
4 Lots 19, 20. Request for front yard variances from Section 233-33A for proposed
additions to the house (on Cleveland Drive side and on Franklin Avenue side) and a
variance from Section 230-40A(1) for accessory structures in the front yard on Franklin
Avenue side.
PRESENT: Mr. Salomone, attorney for the applicant, Mr. Phil Spagnoli, property owner, and
Ciprian Captan, architect.
Chairman Wagner noted that the public hearing has been kept open from last month’s meeting.
Mr. Salomone stated that since October’s meeting, there had been a site walk with the ZBA and
the applicant, and some revisions to the plan have been made. Based on his interpretation of
the code that states that no setback has to be more than the average home on a tax block
[section 230-40(e)(3)], Mr. Salomone said that the average of the required setback is 19.35 ft,
not 25 feet (surveys of 10 and 12 Franklin Avenue were utilized). Therefore, the applicant’s
position is that they need a variance of 1.35 ft on the Franklin Drive side, not the 7 ft. variance
as originally proposed.
Chairman Wagner invited the public to speak at the public hearing.
Cynthia and Bill Plater, 9 Cleveland, stated that they were glad that the board saw the property
and the Platers are pleased with the reduction in size of the garage, but maintain that the size of
1

the auxiliary structure which she stated is larger than a one-bedroom apartment is inappropriate.
They would like the Zoning Board to encourage Mr. Spagnoli to reduce the storage area. This
is their main concern.
Debi Braddick, 9Young Avenue, stated that this property was owned by her children and she
stated that the auxiliary structure needed to be big enough to keep garden equipment, lawn
mowers, leaf blowers etc. in order to maintain the property. She hopes that neighbors keep an
open mind.
There being no further comment from the public, Chairman Wagner closed the public hearing.
The Zoning Board discussed the interpretation of the code referring to a block as either a tax
block or a physical block in order to determine the size of the variance. There was some
concern expressed around the applicants’ interpretation of “block” as a tax block. The Board
agreed to first address the application using the greater variance of 7 ft. instead of 1.35 ft, to
ascertain whether an interpretation would be needed. It was also noted that it had been
pointed out to them by the Assistant Village Engineer that in the past the house at 9 Cleveland
Drive had been granted a 10 ft. front yard variance.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The Zoning Board members noted that the applicant showed considerable responsiveness to
the neighbors by reducing the size of the accessory structure by two feet.
The Zoning Board members agreed that if the accessory structure had been placed further back
it would distract from the overall architectural design.
Finally, the distance between the proposed house/auxiliary structure and the street is consistent
with the neighborhood.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board members stated that the benefit sought could have been achieved by setting
back the auxiliary structure further; however, the applicant had revised the plans in response to
the neighbors’ concerns and had narrowed the size by 10% from the original proposal. In
addition, the primary structure would be partially relying on the existing foundation, making it
more difficult for the applicant to locate the structure further back from the property line.
3. The requested variance is substantial.

2

The Zoning Board agreed that the requested variances are substantial; however, the impact is
mitigated by sixteen additional feet between the house and the street.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board members stated that the proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or
impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district. The
applicant has added landscaping bushes and evergreen trees, narrowed the accessory building
by two feet, and shortened the terrace and the garage.
There was a brief discussion on whether the proposed vertical slats were similar to a fence, and
the architect noted that the main reason for the vertical slats (spaced approximately 12” apart)
was primarily a design element to create a unified look and to maintain privacy for the
homeowners. The Zoning Board was satisfied with the vertical slats.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
The Zoning Board agreed that the difficulty alleged was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Simon made a motion to approve the original 7 ft. variance as requested
previously, with the hope that there will be some continued conversation between the neighbors
on additional narrowing, if possible, of the auxiliary structure; to approve the 13 ft. variance
request on the Cleveland Drive side, and to approve the variance for an accessory structure in
the front yard. Mr. Olcott seconded the motion, and the motion was granted by a vote, all in
favor, of 5 to 0. (Roll call: Chairman Wagner AYE, Mr. Olcott AYE, Mr. Simon AYE, Mr. Tuman
AYE, Mr. Aarons AYE)

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Simon made a motion to approve the minutes of October 14, 2020, as amended, seconded
by Chairman Wagner, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:05 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

3

