MINUTES – Croton Sustainability Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Mar. 28, 2021 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Jon Katz

Absent:
Brian Pugh

Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher
Bernie Yozwiak
Dan Columbini

[Bracketed] text means subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: none
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- Stretch Code Blues
Lindsay sent informational materials to Dan O’Connor 3/2/21. Dan and Janine discussed it and
(according to Janine) both were OK with adopting it, but not until the Eng. Dept. had cleared its
desks of various pressing issues (e.g., Katz property, Croton Pt. Ave. roadwork).
Lindsay and Brian had earlier discussed ways to adopt Stretch now, but move its effective date
to 2022 when the Engineering Dept. had time to address it. While meeting NYSERDA’s desired
12/31/21 effective date could get us an extra $5,000 grant, forgoing it appeared to allow us to
move the effective date back, e.g., by ~6 months.
When confirmation on that option was requested, NYSERDA said it actually meant “you must
get it done and made effective by 12/31/21 or else you won’t get the 1,200 points or the $5,000
grant.” When that unwritten rule was questioned, the director of the program conceded that we
“may” have won the issue “on a technicality”. On 3/17/21, he was asked for a definitive written
answer, but no response has yet been received. Shortly thereafter, our local CEC coordinator
quit. The real problem is that NYSERDA took too long to roll out this program (some of which
involves its internal priorities), and is now rushing municipalities to make up for it.
Bottom line: at this point, we have no assurance that the work involved in passing Stretch this
year (and making it effective in 2022) will yield points needed to secure a $70,000 grant. As a
result, we will wait until the Engineering Dept. is able to move on it.
- NYSERDA CEC grants
NYSERDA confirmed we have 4,100 points (soon to be 4,300 when paperwork already in the
pipeline is processed). That makes us eligible for both a $10,000 and a $20,000 grant. The four
$70,000 grants, however, may be gone by the time we get to the 5,000 point threshold. Several
other communities in our region are also approaching that threshold and may get there before
us. [On 4/1/21, Hastings announced it was the first to hit 5,000]. We are presently awaiting
verification emails from NYSERDA on the two smaller grants. Once they arrive, we have 3
months to submit formal grant applications. If approved, we get 6 months to start work, and 3
years to finish the project(s) they support.

1

Another way to reach 5,000 was found that would require the Village to buy another EV quite
soon. While it’s in the 2021-22 budget, that purchase cannot be done before June 1, 2021 (start
of the fiscal year). By then, all four $70,000 grants may be gone.
.he best we can do at this point is to take a long shot approach: secure 400 easy points (to get
us to 4,700), with June’s EV purchase (netting the final 300 points) bringing us to 5,000 points.
Getting those other 400 points may be done by taking two actions:
1. Get at least 10 more Croton people to sign up for community solar. Ecogy provided a list of
29 that last year received (but never signed) their contracts, due mostly to requirements to
provide access to a participant’s back account, and to pay a separate electric bill to Ecogy. Both
issues were to have been eliminated on 1/1/21 by consolidated billing. However, COVID
pushed that date back several times. It is now expected to take effect 7/1/21. To overcome that
delay, Ecogy agreed to modify its contract to allow signing now, with service to start only after
consolidated billing is in effect. Five committee members not already having solar panels
agreed to sign up when appropriate. Bernie felt he might get several more via his contacts with
HoWs (except Temple Israel which already has solar panels).
2. Get at least 10 Croton people having electric accounts to sign up for a residential demand
response program called Grid Rewards (www.getgridrewards.com). A quick poll found that all
committee members (or their wives) have the smartphones needed to do so. All agreed to
participate. Bernie also agreed to help recruit others, once NYSERDA gives the go-ahead
(hopefully before our next meeting). [An issue regarding bank account information was
subsequently found. It is being resolved by SW.]
To ensure we get the 200 points for each task, those actions must occur after first submitting
“scoping documents” to NYSERDA. SW helped Lindsay to do so. [Both had been submitted,
and were accepted 4/1/21].
Bottom line: If we get the two small grants, one or both could (as discussed below) pay for other
ASHPs, heating controls, and other equipment at the Washington firehouse. If we got a $70,000
grant, it could be used to add a solar rooftop, potentially making the firehouse a near net-zero
energy building. A grant may also be split among several projects, if bundled with one that cuts
energy use. To that end, all of these options were acceptable to NYSERDA:
- tree planting program: CAC chair Janet Monahan agreed to develop a draft program.
- another community garden: Niall provided details and a budget.
- use of some money for an extra (e.g., $250) incentive for LMI installations of HPWHs. For
details, see Bernie’s attached report.
- EV/EVSE
The two Village cars Lindsay had previously suggested for replacement were not appropriate.
One had already been retired and won’t be replaced, while the other is rarely driven. However,
the second parking enforcement car is already slated for replacement (see above for timeline).
Like its PHEV companion, it will be a plug-in hybrid Ford Fusion.

2

On EV school buses, the Bus Electrification Task Force’s (BETF) report was presented to the
Board of Education on 2/25. It recommended that an RFI be issued for a contractor to review
the issues and develop a roadmap to bus electrification.
While a proposal for an EV school bus leasing deal from Highland Electric Transportation was
expected soon, the Board of Ed (on 3/23) decided it would rather continue to own its buses. On
this May’s school budget ballot, two alternate propositions will appear. One would budget for
direct purchase of 1 full-size (66 passenger) bus and 2 mini-bus (20 or 30 passenger) EVs, plus
charging infrastructure. Doing so would add about half a million dollars to the school’s budget
request. The other proposition would make that purchase contingent upon first securing grants
for equipment and installation in time for operations by Sept. 1. Failing to meet that deadline
would cause gas/diesel buses to instead be bought.
- Washington Engine firehouse
Much of the meeting focused on Jon’s detailed report (text attached) on his 3/22/21 site visit.
While we initially considered installation of several ASHPs, he found the site already had five of
them installed in 2016: four replaced old window A/Cs, while another was added to cool and
heat the lobby and nearby spaces previously lacking A/C. Reviews of oil and electric usage
data after that year, however, showed essentially no reduction in oil consumption and no rise in
kWh, both of which should have occurred if the heat pumps were supplying heat. During his site
visit, Jon found that the heat pumps lacked controls to integrate then with the oil-fired hydronic
system. We discussed ways to fix the problem.
The oil tank is below ground behind the retaining wall. If original to the building, it would be 43
years old and thus a leak risk. The building has natural gas service for its kitchen and backup
generator, so the tank could be eliminated if the boiler was converted to gas, or replaced with a
gas-fired unit. Lindsay queried Village staff on the age of the tank and if insulation was added
when the new roof was installed. Jon showed us many useful photos of the site’s equipment
and its roof. Further details may be found in his report at the end of these minutes.
Unrelated to the above, Brian had previously queried Ecogy on possible use of the firehouse’s
~4,000 SF rooftop for a small solar system. See below under “solar projects”.
- Solar Projects
The train station canopy job awaits SolSystems’ scheduling of bore hole drilling to test
conditions below the blacktop. On 3/22/21, they indicated that a schedule was forthcoming.
On the Croton Landing canopy job, Joel raised S.2995 during a 3/16/21 Mothers Out Front
zoom on local energy issues. He also did so in various emails to groups lobbying on legislation.
He concluded that, despite Sandy Galef’s agreement to submit a companion Assembly bill, we
will likely need to wait until after the State budget and other legislative issues get resolved.
On the National Golf Course 1.8 MWp ground-mounted system, there’s nothing new to report.
As per Brian’s request to review several small solar options on Village properties, we found that
some proposed parking areas did not belong to the Village, or were otherwise inappropriate
(e.g., shaded by nearby privately-owned trees). Ecogy is reviewing these three sites:
3

- rooftop of the Washington Engine firehouse (~26 kWp). Jon’s rooftop pics showed it was
new (as of 2019). Ecogy’s design could produce about the same kWh as the firehouse now
consumes. Capacity would be too small for community solar, so a PPA or lease would be
required. Ecogy would also like to install several Tesla batteries. As an alternative (or part of
that deal), the Village could use a grant to buy down the cost of the system (~$45K) and own it.
- canopies at the north and south parking areas at the Muni Building (total of ~125 kWp).
Janine nixed a long canopy at the front parking area due to visual and glare impacts at homes
across the street. The south canopy would be longspan to eliminate the need for snow plowing.
- a long span canopy over the front parking area at the DPW building (~50 kWp). It would
add capacity to the existing DPW rooftop system and use the same transformer and electric
hook-up. Doing so would avoid delay and cost of another CESIR application. It would slightly
expand the existing community solar contract, adding some rent and 7 or 8 Croton subscribers.
- HPWH
The project is beginning to take shape.
- While we would handle the initial survey, education, and metered verifications, SW agreed
to partner with us to handle customer relations and project management, at no cost to us (they
already have a grant to help on CEC projects). When we have a list of candidate sites, SW
would follow through with intros to contractors, help with the utility rebate, federal tax credit, etc.
and report to us on a monthly basis.
- As an independent agency, SW could distribute the $250 additional incentive for the LMIs
who purchase and install a HPWH, if that option gets permitted by Village counsel. [During a
4/9/21, conference call, Village attorney Linda Whitehead insisted that – regardless of how the
money is gotten or given to others for distribution – the Village could get into trouble if it allowed
such funds to be allocated to LMI residents.]
- Committee members were asked to take the draft online surveys and provide feedback.
Several problems were found that Lindsay will fix before our next meeting.
- Dan and Bernie secured pricing for buying and installing water and electric sub-meters.
The meters will allow us to confirm and quantify potential savings before rolling out our program
to residents. Metering actual DHW use took on greater importance when we found that prior
claims of HPWH $ savings may have been based on high assumed usage. Dan provided a
guideline document showing 15.8 gpd/psn (i.e., ~47 gpd for a 3-person household). Lindsay
found a UK study that showed 23-35 gpd. With such consumption, it’s tough to make a case for
replacing oil-fired DHW with HPWH: payback periods exceeded the life of the equipment. Onsite metering will help to verify if local DHW usage is similar or lower.
- To ensure LMI candidates get an early shot, Bernie agreed to work with local agencies
(e.g., food bank, Croton Cares, HoWs, school district) to find those that own their homes (a
necessary prerequisite). To aid that process, a Spanish version of our HPWH flyer would be
produced. See details under “Recruitment/Outreach”.
- Based on a rough budget, the HPWH project may use most (or all) of the $10,000 and
$20,000 CEC grants. NYSERDA OKed combining them for a single project.
4

- Funding Development
Following up on Len’s research on the Doris Duke Foundation and the Westchester Community
Trust, letters-of-inquiry to each were drafted and will be submitted before our next meeting.
Each must first be approved by Janine King. Both describe the HPWH program. If we get
private money for that project, we would use NYSERDA CEC grant money for other projects.
- Communications
Our committee’s work was recently featured in a Feb. Gazette article (on the train station job)
and two articles (Feb. and Mar.) in the River Journal, both on our solar activities. On 4/1,
Lindsay will give a 2-minute overview of our work during a SW zoom on GHG actions at
Westchester municipalities. On 4/7, he will be on a zoom panel sponsored by the League of
Women Voters and others promoting municipal participation in the CEC and CSC programs.
- Recruitment/Outreach
Regarding reaching LMI and Spanish-speaking residents, Bernie looked into several ways to do
so. His efforts are summarized in a report at the end of these minutes.
Our high school interns have been doing fine with their tasks. Joel reported on work that
included: review of regional GHG inventory, verification of many hyperlinks in a presentation,
viewing of long video on forest carbon, spreadsheet development, creation of chat room to
communicate with other CEC/CSC groups. Commendation forms and community service
acknowledgements have been provided.
- New business / other events:
Dates for our next two meetings were set at April 25, 2021 and May 23 (to avoid Memorial Day
weekend). If all committee members have been vaccinated by our April meeting, we will
consider whether to hold the May meeting in-person at 221 Cleveland Drive (with masks on and
windows open).
------------Bernie’s outreach efforts to LMI and Spanish-speaking residents re: HPWH program – 3/20/21
Spanish-speaking residents:
With Lupe Frattini (who is a mainstay of HNM’s Hispanic Ministry), I reviewed the program and
our desire to promote it with LMI folks who might be able to take advantage of funding from a
NYSERDA / Village grant (as well as the Con Ed incentive and Federal tax credit). She noted
that our program’s limitation to homeowners would diminish the eligible population in that
cohort.
Nonetheless, she happily agreed to help us out to spread the word (and possibly engage a
couple other folks in the HNM community to assist). She agreed to work with us on the
translation of the HPWH brochure. Lupe asked that we not give her the lump of the brochure in
one fell swoop, but instead a paragraph or two at a time.
5

She asked about the estimated costs, paybacks, and incentives. I said that once those numbers
are developed, perhaps the 3 of us could have a Zoom to discuss.
Three venues to reach LMI residents:
Croton and Cortlandt Food Bank (a/k/a Pantry) – I spoke with my neighbor Janet Kraybill (longtime volunteer at the Pantry and past Board member) regarding outreach. She noted that only
about 1/3 of the Pantry’s clients are Croton residents. Others are from Peekskill, Cortlandt, and
Ossining. Most are renters rather than home owners, so it’s unclear how effective distributing
our program information may be, but it couldn’t hurt. Once we formalize our program, we would
need to run our concepts by Melanie Dodson, who direct the Pantry. I have met her once and
have her contact information.
Croton Caring Committee – It’s headed by Holly Anzani and delivers food to needy residents. I
spoke with her and outlined our program. Her committee anticipates a June food run during
which they would be happy to distribute our literature. After her Committee’s budget is finalized
in April, she will run our request by it for approval. She does not anticipate any opposition.
School District Lunch program – Holly states that her Committee had persuaded the school
district to notify families that qualify for its free lunch program if they would be interested in the
Caring Committee’s food deliveries. She suggested that we may be able to do the same with
flyers about our program. She felt that Denise Harrington-Cohen (denise.cohen@chufsd.org),
assistant to the Superintendent, would be the appropriate contact. Lindsay knows Denise, and
will follow-up on that option.
----------Jon’s report on the Washington firehouse (corner of North Riverside and High St.) – 3/22/21
[some details later added by Lindsay from other sources]
Jon was escorted by Joe Streany, who manages the 1978 4,000 square foot building. The main
point of the visit was to assess the HVAC systems to see if additional air-source heat pumps
(ASHP) might make sense. While two (2) systems, with 5 ASHPs zones were installed in 2016,
Jon found that they were not integrated with the existing oil-fired hydronic baseboard and
radiator heating system. A prior review of energy bills from 2010 to 2019 found that the 2016
installation had no effect on annual oil or kWh consumption.
The hydronic heating system is zoned by space thermostats controlling two circulator zone
pumps. An outside air thermostat is believed to control the 3 rd zone pump, which in turn serves
unit heaters in garage and lobby. The oil-fired boiler is a Weil-McLean Gold unit installed in the
early ‘00s. The original (1978) unit was gas-fired. With the exception of the two bathrooms
(which have no exterior walls and no heat), all spaces are served by the hydronic system.
An outdoor thermostat controls the starter of one of the zone pumps labelled "Unit Heaters". I
believe when OA temp is below the thermostat setting, the zone pump circulates hot water to all
the unit heaters (3 in the garage, and 1 in the lobby ceiling). Each unit heater (UH) has its own
room thermostat mounted on the wall. When it calls for heat, it starts the fan blowing air across
the UH’s hot water coil. Each UH also has an aquastat attached to its supply piping to prevent
the fan from running if the zone pump is off.
6

The largest space (“meeting/recreation room”) covers about 30% of the floor area (there is no
basement) and is often overheated, despite the presence of a programmable thermostat.
Relocation should be considered as an option to alleviate that condition. It is unclear if its night
setback capability is used. Other thermostats appear to be original (1978) to the building and
have no setback capability.
The garage (a/k/a “apparatus room”) is heated by three ceiling-mounted hydronic unit heaters
served by the boiler. To avoid buildup of vehicle emissions, a large exhaust fan cycles
automatically on for a few minutes, whenever the garage doors open, whether or not a vehicle
is running. A carbon monoxide sensor should be considered. [fix cycling comment: open or
closed?]
Domestic hot water (DHW) is supplied by an indirect-fired 40-gallon heater off the boiler. The only
DHW requirements are the bathrooms and a small kitchen. The fire trucks are not washed with
hot water, and there are no showers.
A gas service feeds only the kitchen range and the emergency generator. The flat membrane roof
was replaced in 2019. We could not confirm if additional insulation was installed. (Lindsay
following up with Village for confirmation) It looks good for installation of horizontal solar panels:
relatively few obstructions, no visible conduits.
The existing ASHPs are controlled by a single handheld remote control, and are used mainly for
cooling. It is unclear if they are “cold climate” units. Based on a review of 5-minute electric
interval data, the main impact of the ASHPs was to increase peak demand charges when they
ran in heating mode a few minutes each month. A central control system is needed to
coordinate the heat pumps with the hydronic system is needed.
It may be feasible (and acceptable to Streany) to replace the ceiling-mounted garage heaters with
ASHPs. The garage appears to have the largest heating demand of all the spaces as it is the
largest space, older garage doors, and likely high infiltration, necessitating heat pumps much
larger than those serving the other spaces. Jonathan estimates a nominal 7½ ton system would
likely be sufficient. Electric service would need to be checked to verify it can handle another
ASHP system of this size.
If conversion to ASHP as the main heating source (with the hydronic as backup and/or use on
very cold days) is desired, the building could become fully electric if instantaneous DHW
heaters were installed in the bathrooms and kitchen (or a tank type HPHW replaced the existing
tank). [In a subsequent email to Lindsay, Streany stated that “it takes forever for water to get
hot in the bathrooms”.]
If a ~26 kWp solar rooftop system was installed, it could provide ~32,000 kWh/yr, which slightly
exceeds the most recent annual kWh consumption. If ASHPs were to become the prime
heating source, ~45,000 kWh/yr would be consumed, so the building would not quite be net
zero, but it would be fully electric. Its carbon footprint would be lower than now, and getting
lower as the grid eventually got cleaner.

7

