Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
February 17, 2021

Members and Guests Present: Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Matthew Arnold, Amos
Bloomberg, Daniel Castner, Edward Hadad, Robert Olsson, Mayor Brian Pugh, Len Simon,
Erik Ferguson

   1. Approval of January 2021 Minutes

   2. SLOW DOWN CROTON: Do Your Part campaign
         a. General discussion on lawn sign draft: “Slow Down” lettering looks too small.
            There might be too many logos that could be hard to see from a distance.Some
            felt the logos gave it a more official look with endorsements by other
            organizations in the Village. “Slow” should be more prominent. Instead of
            yellow, is a chartreuse available to give it more personality, to distinguish from
            yellow road signs, and/or to make it more funky? Could we see multiple
            versions? Could Tom and Tim produce another version for comparison with a
            larger “slow down” and perhaps without the snail?
         b. Rob Olson will price out 100 or 250 signs, and hand cards
         c. Sponsors/endorsements:
                i.    Len Simon is speaking with the Rotary Club
               ii.    Rob Olson has approached the Lions Club
              iii.    Erik Ferguson will approach Croton 100 and Croton Caring Committee
              iv.     BPC could approach larger entities like Triple AAA - or local insurance
                      agencies - or insurers trade groups. To be considered.
               v.     Other ideas, spring of 2022 car show, Boy Scouts / Girl Scouts
         d. Two-page proposal, Matt is sharing with Chief of Police
         e. Next steps:
                i.    Further distribution of two-pager
               ii.    Develop budget: Quote for signs, pamphlets
              iii.    Present to Board of Trustees - March 22
   3. Dummy Light
         a. The Village has already purchased the replacement part to return the status of
            dummy light. It has been surprising how many violators there are, particularly
            rolling the right turn from Grand. We will cease data collection. Is it possible to
            create a well thought-out stop/intersection. Mayor Pugh did not commit, but
            reminded the BPC of the legislative environment in Washington that could
            potentially lead to funds for projects such as this.
   4. Snow Plowing / Snow Shoveling Recommendations
         a. Should we ask DPW to change the way it plows snow onto sidewalks? Dan
            Castner shared a diagram illustrating the way snow gets piled up making it
            difficult for anyone to actually cross the street, particularly children. Mayor Pugh
            stated that DPW has been working extremely hard. There was discussion of
              creating a bloopers video or cartoon to remind residents to try to better clear
              their sidewalks and the intersections.
   5. Proposed Biking/Walking Path from Morningside Drive to CET - endorsement of the
      idea? It was decided to direct this issue to Josh Diamond and the BOE and or theTrails
      Committee.
   6. Croton-Point Avenue
          a. Marc Albrecht has a letter for the Gazette - cyclists must respect the new bike
              path
          b. Discussion on cyclists crossing from bike lane into train station - this may need
              to be revisited

Adjournment
