Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
On Wednesday, March 10, 2021
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
James Tuman (arrived 8:24)
Alex Morales
Mark Aarons
ABSENT: Doug Olcott
Also Present: Ronald Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order: 8:03 p.m.
Chairman Wagner called the meeting of the Zoning board of Appeals on March 10, 2021 to
order.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Gaspar, Jeffrey of Veritas Engineering and Inspection, PLLC on behalf of the property
owner Cyril Ozhuthual-- 47 Olcott Avenue—Located in the RA-5 One Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 79.9 Block 9 Lot 7. Request for a height variance from Section
230-40(H) for a proposed 10 ft’ high retaining wall in the rear yard and for a variance
from Section 230-40 (E)(1) for proposed steps within 4 ft. of a property line
PRESENT: Mr. Jeffrey Gaspar, of Vesper Engineering, and Tom Ozhuthual, homeowner
Mr. Gaspar. P.E., explained that the house was built in 2014 and the backyard has been
unusable because of the steep slope. The proposed 10 ft. retaining wall will level the property
so that the rear backyard can be used. The second variance request is for a three-foot
variance for stairs which are proposed to be one ft. away from the property line instead of the
four feet as required by code.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and there being no comments from the public, the
public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

The homeowner stated that the part of his property had been originally part of their neighbors’
property. With the construction of the proposed retaining wall, the neighbors will also get some
usable space. The Zoning Board noted that the neighbor most impacted by the proposed
variance, will benefit the most from it. The 48” railing on top of the retaining wall is a required
element for safety purposes.
The proposed stairs will maximize the space behind the house and are the reason why they are
so close to the property line. The applicant noted that the location of the stairs will break up the
impact of the height of the retaining wall.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board members agreed that the retaining wall height needs to be what it is due to
the steepness of the slope in the rear yard. Although the stairs’ location could be achieved by a
location less close to the property line, the Zoning Board members agreed that due to the layout
of the surrounding properties, the impact of the chosen method is not significant.
3. The requested rear yard variances are substantial.
The 10-foot variance for the retaining wall and the 3-foot variance for the stairs’ setback are
substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the proposed variance will not have an adverse effect
or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district. It was
noted that the proposed retaining wall might improve the drainage in the rear yard as supported
by the detailed engineering plan, and may slow down the runoff from the site. The applicant
had noted that by leveling the yard, the neighbors’ will also be getting more usable space in
their yard.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the alleged difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Aarons made a motion to grant the 10 ft. variance for the retaining wall with the
railing on top, and the three-foot variance for the stairs close to the property line, seconded by
Mr. Morales, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Mr. Tuman AYE, Mr.
Morales AYE, Mr. Aarons AYE, Chairman Wagner AYE, Mr. Olcott ABSENT)
b) 1360 Albany Post road Corp -- 1360 Albany Post Road -- Located in the Limited Office O-1
District and Northern Gateway Overlay District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of

Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.10 Block2 Lots 12 and 13. Request for a waiver under Village
Zoning Code Section 193 from the requirement to install a fire sprinkler system in the new
commercial building which is required by Section 193-1 and 193-6 of the Village Code.
Chairman Wagner stated that a request for adjournment was received from the applicant and
the application has been adjourned until the next meeting in April. She also noted that the
Zoning Board had received a letter, dated March 3, 2021, from Fire Chief Dinkler of the Village,
which stated that he did not recommend granting the waiver for the sprinkler system.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of February 10, 2021,
seconded by Mr. Morales, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Olcott absent).
4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board

