D & I Committee Meeting - Final Minutes- 1.27.21.docx

-1-

Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee: FINAL MINUTES
Wednesday, January 27, 2021, 7:00 PM – 8:15PM Video Conference
Members in attendance: Tsui Pappas, Jodi Epstein Hoefler, Maria Modica-Snow, Amy
Melman, Lisa Stefanoff, Michael Mui, Jessica Ganus,, Aliyah Simpson, Amy Melman,
Village Trustees: Sherry Horowitz, John Habib, Amy Ferrara.
Absent: Leo Wiegman, Jessa Mittelman, Kristen Mather de Andrade, Justin Johnson,
Trustee Len Simon
AGENDA
1. New Business
a. Health and Welfare check.
b. Introductions of new guests: none
c. Mayor Pugh has appointed Michael Miu and Jessica Ganus.
d. Leadership Transition:
i.
Maria has graciously agreed to temporarily Co-Chair! Thanks, Maria!
2. Ongoing Activities (25 mins)
3. MONTHLY RECOGNITIONS
February
African-American History Month
March
National Women’s History Month, Irish-American Heritage Month
and National Deaf History Month (March 13 to April 15)
April
Diversity in Action Month
a. Discussion Group subcommittee:
Invitation was extended for anyone with any idea or wish to do something for
March, not necessarily a discussion!
i. we have filled the 2 positions for Co-moderator roles within our
Discussion
Group subcommittee. Lisa Stefanoff and Michael Mui will take
over for Andy Finkelstein and Jodi Epstein Hoefler. Many thanks to all!! (5
mins) (Maria)
i.
During transition, our successful Discussion Group/forum will continue. Jodi
and Lisa co-hosted the January discussion facilitated by Michael Mui, who
also did his own screen sharing. Thank you Michael for a great discussion
on communication. The session was dedicated to Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr., honoring him as an incredible communicator!
ii. Recent Discussion G
a. Michael Mui, Effective Communication/Identity Badging,
1/12/2021
b. Upcoming Discussion Group topics:
i.
Feb. 10, 2021. Lisa Stefanoff, Sherry Horowitz and Maria ModicaSnow are working on a discussion about Black History Month, its
origins, objectives and future. Sherry has written a letter to the
editor of the Gazette highlighting the event and mentioned relevant
books to be posted on our webpage. (Our original discussion for that
night on Gender Identification language will take place at another
time – likely June/Pride Month.)

D & I Committee Meeting - Final Minutes- 1.27.21.docx
ii.

iii.

-2-

March (tentatively) Dr Fred Opie, a former Croton resident will
present a program regarding growing up in Croton and sharing some
experiences of his Black Family History. This may be a co-hosted
program with the Library, because of Dr. Opie’s fond memories of
his days there; the Library will record the program and keep it for
Croton’s benefit. Jodi started a discussion about trying to get
newspaper coverage of the event in the form of an article (vs. letter
to the editor) and the relationship between the Library and the D&I
Committee. John Habib agreed to contact Gary Cahill (Croton
Gazette) and Bruce Apar (Rivertowns Journal North (monthly
newspaper) and possibly Journal News. Discussion of putting out a
press release and inviting the press to cover the story, and having the
CHHS student newsletter do a piece as well
Lisa suggested a “call for speakers” for future discussion meetings.
The general consensus was that it was a good idea. We’ll add it to
next month’s agenda.

c. Schools Update: (5 mins) (Aliyah, Maria, Lisa).
i.
Aliyah spoke of her disappointment that the school district seems to have no
plans for Black History Month. She will help get the word out to
Administration, Staff and Students about our Feb. Discussion Group
Meeting. We briefly mentioned that the Croton-Harmon District has
established an Equity Stakeholder Committee, facilitated by a professional
who has worked with many school districts in dealing with diversity, equity
and inclusion in their districts. Aliyah mentioned at the last meeting that the
school district had examined an Anti-Defamation League “No Place for
Hate” certification program.
ii.
Hendrick Hudson District: No update, need to identify a liaison to Hen Hud
schools.
d. Croton Free Library Update: (Amy)
i.
Nothing new to add, but they have been implementing the procedures
outlined in last month’s meeting.
e. Future Project Roles: (Incoming Committee Members should volunteer for at
least one project) (5 mins)
i.
Discussion Group: Aliyah, Lisa, Maria, Michael, Jodi, Sherry, John,
ii.
Schools Group: Aliyah, Maria
iii.
Book Recommendations Group: Amy, Tsui, Justin, Leo
iv.
Supervision/Strategy: Leo, (Incoming Co-Chair);
v. Communications/Public Relations: Lisa has agreed to take on the
Communications/Public relations role.
vi.
Charities and Non-Profits Liaison: Tsui
vii.
Website Liaison; Lisa Stefanoff
viii.
Police Reform Liaison: Michael Mui
ix.
Member Recruitment and Onboarding: Maria;
x. Member Training and Education: Michael, _____
xi.
Houses of Faith Liaison: Justin

D & I Committee Meeting - Final Minutes- 1.27.21.docx

-3-

4. Administration (10 mins)
a. Committee Membership: Required Training:
i.
As far as we know, all members who have applied for membership have been
appointed. Please remember, if you have not completed the 2 required
courses and submitted your certificates, you have 2 months from the time of
your appointment to do so.
b. Review of received email communications (5 mins) Lisa reported that she
received one email, a registration for our Feb Discussion Group! No promos have
been sent out, but she hung a flyer at the Black Cow. Thank you, Lisa!
c. Set next meeting date: typically 4th Wednesday of the month; NEXT MEETING
February 24, 2021.
d. Adoption of minutes of prior meeting: (Postponed to February to review revised
minutes of Dec 16, 2020.)
e. Other:
i.
Committee members’ bios for webpage: Jodi said she has all the info that
was once on our website. Tsui offered to take that, contact all new members
for photos and bios, and contact existing members to see if anyone wanted to
update anything. Thank you, Tsui!
ii.
John Habib began what turned into a very good discussion of the “plan”
which was done according to Gov Cuomo’s mandate regarding police
reform, and our role in it because of the intersection of community policing
and a diverse community. The discussion covered many topics, Aliyah and
Michael, both of whom were on the village committee, shared their thoughts
and experiences, and Sherry added to the discussion, including to remind us
that we need to state what we want to see. Michael also emphasized how
marginalized the Latinx community is, especially those who do not have
legal status. It was decided that Michael will forward the plan to each of us
on Feb. 1 when it becomes public. We should all read it and we will discuss
it at our next meeting and see what, if anything, we can advocate as the D&I
Committee.
Enclosures:

