Public Hearing of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY on
the Tentative 2021-22 Village Budget was held on Monday, March 29, 2021 via
ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
Oath of Office was issued, prior to the meeting, to Ian Murtaugh as Trustee to fill an
unexpired term.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy
1.

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 4:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.

2.

PUBLIC HEARING – 2021-22 Tentative Budget
Village Treasurer Sandra Bullock gave a summary of the proposed 2021-22
Tentative Village Budget.
Tax Levy for Fiscal Year 2021 $11,929.350; Tax Base Growth Factor for
upcoming Budget 1.0036; Allowable Levy Growth Factor 1.10131, Available
Carryover from Fiscal Year 2021 $152,222, total Levy Limit before exclusion
of $12,281,355, Tax Levy plus exclusion for the New York Police and Fire
Retirement System $12,341,899. Village Treasurer Bullock advised that the
Proposed Levy of $12,474,070 is currently over the Limit; the General Fund
Proposed Budget equates to a Tax Rate Increase of $274.836 per one
thousand dollars of assessed valuation which amounts to a 3.82% increase.
Village Treasurer Bullock advised that with the proposed increase a
household with a medium assessment would see a property tax increase of
$149.00.
Variances from Prior Year: Appropriations went down by $365,810 and NonTax Revenues went down by $2,187,047.
To view the detailed Tentative Budget cut and past the following:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/202122%20(1).pdf
To view the Managers Budget Letter cut and past the following:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sites/g/files/vyhlif441/f/uploads/20212022_budget_message.pdf.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 2

Village Treasurer advised that the Water Fund has a proposed ten percent
increase bringing the water rate to 9.5565 per one hundred cubic feet of
usage, with a yearly increase for an average consumption of eighty-one units
to $70.00 per year; the Sewer Fund has a proposed two percent increase
which would bring the sewer rate to 1.98 per one-hundred cubic feet of water
consumption, bringing the yearly increase for an average consumption of
eighty-one units to $3.14 per year.
Village Treasurer Bullock advised that the proposed Capital Fund includes
$200,000 for Infrastructure, $422,000 for Equipment, $207,000 for Fire
Department Equipment, $55,600 for EMS, $68,475 for Police Department,
$35,000 for Planning Studies, and $450,000 for Recreation as well as an
expenditure of $25,000 for Water System Improvements.
Village Treasurer Bullock advised that the proposed Capital Project Funding
includes a General Fund Debt Issuance of $880,337, Chips money of
$100,000, Endowment of $450,000, and a Water Fund Debt Issuance of
$25,000.
The “Unassigned Fund Balance and Outstanding Debt” comparison from 2017
through 2021 can be found on page nineteen of the Tentative Budget as well
as a detailed line by line analysis of each Department.
Comments Via E-Mail
Michael Ribosh asked the Board to find creative ways to come up with funds
to maximize non-tax revenue since we do not know how long it will take for
commuter parking revenue to return to pre-pandemic levels. Mr. Ribosh
asked what the $450,000 from the Gouveia Endowment is being used for,
how much revenue has the Gouveia property generated since the Village
took control and what is “CHIPS” funding.
Village Manager King advised that the $450,000 that we received from the
Endowment can only be used for improvements to the Gouveia property; the
Village is proposing to finish the site work to make the driveway safer for cars
going in and out of the property, as well as adding lights and grading the
road. Village Manager King advised that the Gouveia property has not
generated any revenue, but the Board believes that if we can complete the
site work, there could be future opportunity. Village Manager King explained
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 3

that “CHIPS” funding is funding that the Village receives from the “New York
State Department of Transportation” for road improvement work.
Marc and Lauren Shenfield, 4 Hamilton Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated
that they are opposed to a tax increase and asked that the Board find
additional savings and suggested selling the Gouveia property.
Village Manager King advised that during this process $365,000 of cuts have
already been found and she is sure that the Board will find more as they go
through the Budget line by line.
Mayor Pugh explained that as a condition of the “Will” the Village cannot sell
the Gouveia property for profit and the property can only be given to another
non-profit entity. Mayor Pugh stated that essentially the only benefit that
would be gained from not owning the property would be the very modest
landscaping expanses that we incur. Mayor Pugh stated that the largest
source of revenue is the proposed community solar array at the train station
and the one time sale of the “Katz” property.
Motion to open the Public Hearing on the 2021-22 Tentative Budget was
made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Joel Gingold, 55 Nordia Drive, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the Board to do
multi-year expense budgeting which was recommended three years ago by
the “Financial Sustainability Committee”. Mr. Gingold stated that many
people in our community are struggling, many have lost their jobs or have
seen their incomes significantly reduced since the pandemic and believes
that it is inappropriate to further burden the community with a tax increase
and is hoping that the Board find some way to eliminate or severely limit any
tax increase and explore every means to reduce our expenses and our
outstanding Debt. Mr. Gingold stated that the Board has struggled over the
past several years to find a use of the Gouveia property and is concerned
with spending $450,000 to make these improvements and suggested razing
the house, install a gazebo and leave the park for passive recreation.
Brian McAllister, 73 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that this year
might not be the year to purchase new equipment, and while he believes that
the Police Department should have these improvements, in these tight
financial times the Board should reconsider this expenditure this year. Mr.
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 4

McAllister also asked if there is room to go back and re-negotiate the “PILOT”
program with a view of going to 4%.
Village Manager King advised that our Superintendent of Public Works is
requesting this equipment in order to maintain the fleet and keep sanitation
up and running, the Fire Department is trying to complete their “SCBA
Replacement Plan” as well as computer upgrades and EMS is asking for
replacement stretchers and a new CPR machine. Village Manager King
referred to the “narratives” which goes into a more detailed explanation of
why these items are being requested. Village Manager King explained that
we have scaled back renovations to the Police Department dramatically and
this plan calls for staying within the space that they currently have.
Mayor Pugh reminded everyone that if this money is not used to fund the
changes in the Police Department it cannot be used to fund anything else and
would stay in the “Debt Fund” to repay its own debt.
Cathy Connolly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she was
shocked to see how many millions of dollars we are in debt and is against the
Village considering installing parking meters.
Colleen Beyrer, 19 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked how does the
additional three bedrooms factor into the “PILOT”.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Board expects more bedrooms to yield more
revenue for the project and the Board expects that to be shared with the
Village but at this time we are still negotiating with the applicant and until
there is an agreement we cannot speak publicly on that issue.
Question from Facebook:
Will Fletcher asked what necessitates increasing water rates so dramatically.
Village Manager King advised that for the past two years the “Water Fund”
has run in the deficit, the Board has eliminated one position to save money,
but the reality is that consumption has been reduced dramatically, not just by
residents but by our commercial users and in order to balance the Budget we
will need to raise the rates this year.

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 5

Mayor Pugh stated that while we all take pride in being an environmentally
conscious community and people are doing their best to conserve water,
there are still fixed costs to operate the water system.
Village Manager King advised that she has had discussions with our Village
Engineer about turning off one of the pumps on one of the wells during the
fall and winter months which could save a little on electrical costs.
Mayor Pugh stated that the “Sustainability Committee” has told us that the
water system is the Village’s number one user of electricity and it would be a
welcome energy savings.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, the Mayor asked
that the Public Hearing be held over to the April 5, 2021 meeting where
public comments will be continued.
Upcoming Work Sessions on the Tentative 2021-22 Budget can be found on
the Village calendar on the Website.
Board Comments:
Trustee Simon thanked everyone who commented this evening, this is the
first draft, and the Board will be spending many evenings going through the
Budget on a Department by Department basis. Trustee Simon stated that it
is very revealing how many cuts have already been done and as you go
through the Budget you will see that in almost every case there is a net
decrease in spending from our current Budget, and we will be looking very
closely to see if we can extend those decreases in places where it does not
hurt the delivery of services. Trustee Simon stated that while we are hopeful
that we will getting some funding from the “American Rescue Plan”, it is
unlikely to get here in time for our 2021-22 Budget process.
Trustee Gallelli recommended that everyone read the Manager’s “Budget
Letter”, it lays out the entire picture extremely well, and also suggested
looking into the details of the “Expense” side of the Budget; based on her
years of experience, this is an extremely tight Budget, and we are open to
hearing any ideas that the public may have.
Mayor Pugh explained that the 41-51 Maple Avenue affordable housing
project is dependent on funding from the State of New York and the move to
add the three bedroom units was driven by the desire to maximize the
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 6

potential of receiving funding for this application; if the State is reticent on
the additional “PILOT” payments, the Village is going to have to look at other
ways to recover that revenue that would be produced by the larger units.
Mayor Pugh stated that this is still being negotiated but could involve
additional site work that could provide larger community benefits such as
improvements to public space or for the developer to pay for additional traffic
calming measures in the area.
Mayor Pugh explained that with respect to our debt; we have two more years
to pay for the acquisition of the parking lot and between two and three
million dollars of our debt typically matures in a given Budget year which
reduces the overall debt level. Mayor Pugh stated that the “Fund Balance” is
much more flexible than borrowing and there is real value in maintaining
strong cash reserves which is why the Board made a decision last year to
issue Bonds for our Capital Budget as opposed to funding it with
appropriations of cash from the “Fund Balance”. Mayor Pugh stated that last
year we decided not to make equipment purchases, but sooner or later we
cannot escape the necessity of replacing and updating equipment and with
respect to infrastructure, we generally see construction costs going up faster
than the rate of inflation and deferring maintenance and improving
infrastructure can cost more.
Mayor Pugh stated that he agrees that it would be good to have a specific
plan with respect to the Gouveia property, ideally it would be good to know if
we could attract a revenue generating tenant and therefore any work that we
do should be in harmony with those plans.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that this is a proposed Budget and changes will be
made over the next several work sessions and agrees that deferring some of
these hard choices may not be in the best interest long term for the Village.
Mayor Pugh asked Village Manager King what affect the Tentative Budget has
on our “Bond Rating”.
Village Manager King advised that she reached out to the Village’s Financial
Analyst about the effect of using that much “Fund Balance” on our “Bond
Rating” and they responded by saying it would not have an affect; what could
potentially hurt our “Bond Rating” is if the train station parking does not
comes back, but if we expect it to be temporary and we stay within our “Fund
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 7

Balance Policy”, it would be a mark in our favor as well as the Board finding
other ways of fulfilling this two million dollar shortfall.
Mayor Pugh stated that our Budget does not include monies from the
“American Rescue Plan” and revenues from the sale of the “Katz” property as
well as the community solar array at the parking lot and asked Village
Manager King if she has a sense when it would be responsible to incorporate
at least some of that money in the Budget and provide greater assurance to
the rating agency.
Village Manager King stated that she would not recognize money from the
“American Rescue Plan” until it actually hits our bank account, and when it is
received, she would recommend adding it to the “Unallocated Fund Balance”
so that it is available for next year if the Board chooses to use it to balance
next year’s Budget, with respect to the solar array, we are going to be
receiving a very small amount of money every month during the
development period but the Village and/or the developer can walk away at
any time which is why she did not recognize this in the Budget, the sale of
the “Katz” property was also not included in this Budget because we do not
know when the closing will occur.
Mayor Pugh noted that this Budget funds two vacant Police positions,
together they are quite substantial and recommended that we speak with the
Police Chief about our ability to at least not fund them for a portion of the
upcoming Budget year, with respect to the “DARE” program, he is
recommending that we either split the cost of the program with the School
District or eliminate the “DARE” funding and redirect a small portion of that
funding to a broader public outreach program that would involve introducing
the Youth Officer to members of the student body as well as having members
of our bilingual staff interact directly with members of the Spanish speaking
community; he will also be asking the “Recreation Advisory Committee” to
look at new permitting options for Village parks to expand permits on a
limited basis to non-residents. Mayor Pugh added that the Board will be
exploring the re-purposing of the north end of the parking lot so that in the
event that revenues to do not recover we can sell it and add it back to the
Tax Roll, the Budget also includes Planning fees to assist the Board with rezoning the Harmon area that could possibly include the train station area.
Mayor Pugh stated that we all want to minimize the tax increase, but if we
cut two million dollars from our Budget, we would not be cutting fat but
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 8

rather bones and organs and there would be real brutal tradeoffs and does
not think it is realistic that there will be a zero percent increase, but we will
do what we can as we go through the Budget.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz. Meeting closed at 5:33pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

8

