Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
held on Monday, April 5, 2021 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$128,541.52
$8,015.03
$7,858.91
$529,028.51
$6,705.00

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL – none
4. PRESENTATION - Certificates of Recognition were issued to Missy Corvinus
in recognition of her many years of service on the Recreation Advisory
Committee.
5. PUBLIC HEARING - Continuation of Public Hearing on the Tentative 202121 Village Budget.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
6. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Email from “Trees for Tribs-Hudson River Estuary Program” dated
March 19, 2021 regarding planting tree samplings at “Black Rock
Park”.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 2

Mitchell Bring, 12 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, addressed the
“Special Permit Application” from “Hudson National Golf Club”. Mr. Bring
states that since 1999 the site has been zoned residential and permits a
single “caddy shack”, the surrounding land is deemed “no disturbance”
by the “Club’s” “Environmental Management Plan” but for more than two
decades “Hudson National Golf Club” has been violating the rules,
creating a nuisance, flooding the neighborhood and degrading the
environment that they pledged to protect, and he is concerned that the
“Variance” would grandfather these violations. Mr. Bring stated that
since 2002 the “caddy shack” site has been used as a maintenance area,
structures were built and modified without permits, it became a dumping
ground, without required water runoff protection controls. Mr. Bring
stated that a steep dirt and rock retaining wall was also built without a
permit and “Hudson National Golf Club” has ignored their own
environmental commitments by cutting dozens of mature hardwoods.
Mr. Bring stated that all of this has caused problems for the entire
neighborhood, including extensive water damage to their homes, and
devalued property values and the noise is like living near a never-ending
construction site. Mr. Bring stated that the application attempts to justify
what is illegally there and it is insulting to the neighbors and the Village.
Ms. Bring asked that the Village Engineer review their application for
completeness before the Board refers it to the Planning Board; the
application must include a current topographical plan to assess the
damage, a full storm water pollution control plan based on fifty and onehundred year storm calculations and a modern adequate storm water
conveyance plan on Prickly Pear Hill Road as well as a remediation plan
that addresses all the damage.
John Ealer 5 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
supports everything Mr. Bring said and can testify to all the damage that
“Hudson National Golf Club’s” maintenance yard has done to their
neighborhood. Mr. Ealer stated that stormwater management is a critical
concern across the neighborhood and needs to be addressed; just
because “Hudson National Golf Club” has done something that we all
agree is not permitted, does not mean that they should be grandfathered
and asking for forgiveness rather than permission is not a way forward.
Mr. Ealer referred to item #38 on the “Amended Site Plan” resolution, if
the Village Engineer or the Village Code Enforcement concludes that
there has been a pattern of recurring or substantial non-compliance with
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 3

the terms of the resolution the Village Engineer should issue a “stop play
order” and a declaration of “Lapse of Site Plan Approval” and notify the
“Club” that play on the golf course will be stopped unless the violations
are immediately brought into regulation.
Dan McNatty, 16 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
road is a single lane and allowing heavy trucks to use this road is going to
make the condition of this road even worse than it already is and difficult
to navigate getting in and out of the street. Mr. McNatty stated that the
drainage issues have gotten significantly worse over the years and we
have seen many trees taken down that has led to a change in how runoff
goes down the hill, he has experienced a huge amount of sand on his
property that comes down from the maintenance yard, some of which
has ended up in his swimming pool and driveway. Mr. McNatty stated
that it seems that there is a repeat pattern with the “Club” of not filing
for permits and now they are asking to fix the things that are wrong.
Spencer Grant, 4 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, supports the
comments made by his neighbors, he finds it disingenuous that we are
having this discussion because the “Club” has been “found out”; and if
they do not remedy the illegal use, he supports a “stop golf order”. Mr.
Grant stated that he believes it is a rocky road for the Village to allow
people to beg for forgiveness rather than to ask for permission and our
enjoyment of the hill has been affected by the illegal maintenance yard
not to mention the thousands of out-of-pocket expenses he has incurred
to try and remedy the drainage problems.
Alan Milton, stated that the “Hudson National Golf Club” has an
Environmental Management Plan which they have been in compliance
with; they have had multiple rounds of testing, thousands of trees have
been planted, no chemicals have ever been stored in the maintenance
shed other than fertilizer similar to what most of the neighbors have
stored in their garages and sheds; there is a separate building that
provides proper containment of chemicals that is in complete compliance
with the “Department of Environmental Conservation” and assessed by a
consultant of the Village. Mr. Milton stated that Prickly Pear Hill Road has
always been a conduit for rain, the “Club” built a berm that offsets some
of that drainage which transports water away but unfortunately 16 Prickly
Pear Hill Road built a drain around the back of their home which now
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 4

dumps onto 12 Prickly Pear Hill Road. Mr. Milton urged everyone to read
the submittals that were made, and the Village should not overlook what
is really a good project which is the solar project.
Susan Ealer, 5 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that as an
architect she has worked on large projects, and big institutions that coexist with smaller neighbors really need to be regulated. Ms. Ealer stated
that she wants to make sure that the maintenance yard meets all the
current codes and does not destroy our neighborhood, it is not an
attractive facility, and she wants to make sure that it does not lower her
property value or destroy the environment around her home.
Brett Scales, “Hudson National Golf Course Superintendent” stated that
for two years he has had zero complaints from neighbors on Prickly Pear
Hill Road with the exception of one noise complaint from a delivery truck
that came too early until the “Club” proposed a solar project and at that
point the Village was bombarded with all kinds of claims that the “Club”
is affecting the neighborhood. Mr. Scales stated that the neighbors are
attempting to disrupt the solar project, they have been trespassing on
“Club’s” property, taking pictures of empty fertilizer containers, claiming
that they were leaking and contaminating the Hudson River, and believes
that this is less of how we are affecting the neighbors but more how the
neighbors do not want to see a solar project. Mr. Scales stated that every
time there has been an issue it has been resolved, there has not been
sand moving off the property in the last four years and we need to have
the professionals go through this process.
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
“Club” in general does a good job of maintaining their grounds but since
he does not live on Prickly Pear Hill Road he cannot speak to their
concerns. Mr. Hamilton stated that he does not like golf courses but likes
solar and it seems like a case of everyone wanting clean energy, just not
in their backyards, but he would rather see it on a golf course then see
someone clear-cut another area for solar panels and the thousands of
trees claimed to have been planted is a mystery to him.
Jayne Grant, 4 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that sand
has been coming down the hill for years and we have not seen thousands
of trees planted. Ms. Grant stated that she supports solar but would like
to know how many trees they would need to remove.
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 5

Village Manager King clarified that a public hearing will be way down the
road, this evening we are only accepting the application and referring it
to the Planning Board and no action is being taken this evening.
Roseann Schuyler, Croton on Hudson, stated that last year the Village
changed the “Sign Law” limiting signs that could be placed in the
Village’s Right-of-Way and she spoke at that time about her concerns of
regulating signs on private property. Ms. Schuyler stated that this
proposed revision would regulate signage on private property both in
terms of the number of signs and the size and asked why the Village is
considering this.
Village Manager King advised that what the proposed revision is
attempting to do is put many residents in compliance, currently our law
only allows for temporary signs on residential properties, and she has
noticed that this past year many signs have been up for at least one year
and in our current law they would be illegal.
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #45 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Regan Development Corporation for a multi-unit residential building on the
parcel located at 41-51 Maple Street, and
WHEREAS, on March 1, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent to
serve as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its
intent to all involved agencies, and
WHEREAS, the Village has received comments back from the Westchester County
Planning Board, the Village Planning Board, the New York State Office of Homes &
Community Renewal and the New York State Department of Transportation stating
that they have no objections to the Village Board of Trustees serving as Lead
Agency, and
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 6

WHEREAS, the 30-day window to send comments regarding the Village’s intent to
serve as lead agency has now passed,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the proposed
action; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers the
special permit application and CAF to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for a
recommendation of consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP).
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that we have reached the point in the process where we have
all the documentation that we need in order to take this to the next step.
Trustee Simon referred to the resolution indicating all the letters and comments the
Board has received from our partner institutions and they have been helpful
through the process and we look forward to moving onto the next steps.
Resolution #46 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) has applied for an amended special
permit and site plan approval for modifications to their maintenance area, and
WHEREAS Hudson National Golf Club received its initial special permit for an annual
membership golf club on July 25, 1994, site plan approval on July 26, 1994, an
amended special permit on April 19, 1999, and amended site plan approval on
March 2, 1999,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Village Board determines that this is an Unlisted Action under SEQRA.
2. The Village Board declares its intent to be Lead Agent for SEQRA purposes
and authorizes the circulation of its notice of intent to all involved and
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 7

interested agencies including the Village Planning Board and the Westchester
County Planning Board
3. The Village Board refers the special permit application to the Planning Board
for a recommendation back to the Village Board.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: the applicant is required to make an initial
payment of $10,000 to be held in escrow for any necessary professional services
that may be required to assist the Village Board in the review of this application.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he would like the opportunity to take a site visit to see
first-hand the conditions that the Prickly Pear Hill neighbors are referring to which
would be a good way to make sure that “Hudson National Golf Club” is and will
continue to be the good neighbor they have always promised to be and is in
agreement that we have to resolve the past issue before we can move to the next
issue.
Mayor Pugh advised that the “Hudson National Golf Club” is applying for two
“Special Permits”, one for the maintenance area and the other for the proposed
solar system and assuming they are both approved, there would be a joint site visit.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she supports a site visit given the concerns of the
residents and we should explore what has happened to make sure that things have
been done the way they are supposed to.
Resolution #47 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture
that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees; and
WHEREAS Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world; and
WHEREAS trees provide an abundance of environmental and aesthetic advantages
to citizens and wildlife, wherever they are found; and
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 8

WHEREAS trees in our Village increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS: the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been recognized as a Tree City
USA by the National Arbor Day Foundation since 1984 and desires to continue its
tree-planting program,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, on behalf
of the Village Board of Trustees, does hereby proclaim April 30, 2021, as “Arbor
Day”, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that all residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson are
urged to support efforts to preserve our urban forests, cool our streets, clean our
air, reduce our carbon footprint and improve our overall state of wellbeing.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that as part of the “Arbor Day Pledge” the Village is supposed to
devote two dollars per capita to the care and maintenance of trees and asked
Manager King approximately how much the Village has devoted to this.
Village Manager King advised that we have a “Tree Maintenance” line in the budget
of about $40,000 per year.
Resolution #48 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
AUTHORIZING VILLAGE TREASURER TO TAKE ALL ACTION PRESCRIBED BY LAW TO
COLLECT UNPAID TAXES
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees has received from the Treasurer of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson an account of unpaid taxes describing each parcel of real
property upon which taxes are unpaid and showing the person or persons in whose
name the property is assessed and the amount of unpaid tax, together with a
verified statement from the Treasurer that the taxes in such account remain unpaid
and that she has been unable to collect same, and

8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 9

WHEREAS the Board of Trustees has compared the amount of unpaid taxes with the
original tax rolls and has found the account to be correct and the total amount of
taxes, penalties, and charges unpaid to be $441,739.36,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Treasurer of the Village of Croton-onHudson be and is authorized, empowered and directed to take all action prescribed
by law to collect such unpaid taxes through the advertisement and sale of taxes or
tax liens pursuant to Section 1455 of the Real Property Tax Law of the State of New
York; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby designates Tuesday,
May 4, 2021 as the tax lien sale date for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such sale shall be held on that date at 10:00 a.m.
prevailing time in the Village Clerk’s office in the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal
Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the advertisement of the notice required by law be
inserted in The Gazette, the official newspaper of the Village, and that said notice
shall be published once a week for three consecutive weeks, and the last date for
publication shall be made on or before the 27th day of April 2021.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh asked if any of these Tax Liens have been affected by any intervening
legislation or Executive Order arising from the Covid-19 Pandemic.
Village Manager King explained that this amount is over the past twenty years; prior
to the Board deciding to hold a Tax Lien Sale, the money just accumulated and the
only way that we ever collected is if a house was foreclosed or sold, otherwise it
stayed on our books as unpaid taxes.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that this is a method by which the Village can get
its money sooner.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the Village has a high percentage of taxes paid and this
number is over many years.
Village Treasurer Bullock stated that we collect over ninety percent of our “Levy”
every year.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 10

Trustee Murtaugh asked if we get dollar for dollar when the Tax Lien is sold.
Village Manager King stated that she has been told that the Village gets dollar for
dollar and because of our shortfall it is all the more reason to do this.
Resolution #49 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Tom Waitkins, Village Assessor, has submitted a memo regarding the
property located at 144 Benedict Blvd., designated on the tax maps as Section
79.13, Block 003, Lot 066, and
WHEREAS such memo indicates that a stipulation of settlement has been made to
reduce the assessed value of the property for the current fiscal year from $26,730
to $25,000, and
WHEREAS the Assessor has determined that a property tax refund in the amount of
$457.99 is warranted,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to issue a refund to the property owner in the
amount of $457.99.
Resolution #50 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee was established in 2006, and
WHEREAS the Committee developed the Bicycle Pedestrian Master Plan, which was
adopted by the Board of Trustees on April 20, 2009, and
WHEREAS the Committee has completed a review of the plan and identified a
number of issues relating to bicycle and pedestrian safety in the Village, and
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 11

WHEREAS the Committee has also identified a number of items in the original plan
which have been completed by the Village, such as the Croton Point Avenue Traffic,
Pedestrian and Bicycle Improvement Project; and
WHEREAS the Committee has prepared an updated version of the Master Plan,
which was presented to the Board of Trustees at the March 22, 2021 work session,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
the updated Bicycle Pedestrian Master Plan; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such plan shall be utilized when possible, by the
Village Board and staff as another planning tool when considering future projects.
DICUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that this is an excellent Master Plan and commended the
Bicycle Pedestrian Committee for all their hard work.
Trustee Gallelli stated that we have had a “Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan” for many
years and that “Plan” has guided us on many projects.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Village values the tremendous work of the Committee
and thanked them for coming up with creative ways to address many issues.
Resolution #51 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning
Chapter of the Village Code to permit lawn signs without time restrictions in the
residential zoning districts of the Village, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 3 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village has completed a Part 1 of a Short Environmental Assessment
Form (EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF),
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 12

1. The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is a Type 1
action.
2. The Village Board hereby declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes in connection with the Proposed Action.
3. The Village Board hereby issues the EAF and CAF which it has before it in
connection with the Proposed Action.
4. The Village Board hereby refers to the Village Planning Board the Draft Law
for a report back to the Village Board in accordance with Village law.
5. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the
Village Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the
Village Board in accordance with Village Law.
6. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the
Westchester County Planning Board for review in accordance with law.
7. The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations
and notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Murtaugh clarified that this this law wipes away an unintended
consequence of the Law that was passed a couple of years ago and the law will now
put homeowners in compliance if they want to leave a sign up on a permanent basis
and asked if the number of signs and the square footage was in the previous law.
Village Manager King stated that during our discussions we felt that three signs is a
reasonable number, and we used the dimensions of a standard lawn sign, since we
do not want huge billboards and properties littered with signage.
Mayor Pugh stated that there has not been any enforcement action on the part of
the Village for signs on private property and it is more to bring the Code up to date
and reflect the actual practice of the Village.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that this law also cleans up the “Temporary
Signs” provision which had distinguished between different types of signs and which
signs needed a permit and/or fee and since we cannot distinguish on content, the
board removed the requirement for a permit and lays out what is permitted in
residential zones.
Resolution #52 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 13

New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Government Accounting Standards Board establishes a number of
generally-accepted accounting principles which state and local governments must
adhere to; and
WHEREAS one such standard, GASB 34, includes a requirement that local
governments periodically conduct an inventory of physical assets; and
WHEREAS the last inspection and inventory of the Village’s fixed assets was
completed in 2014; and
WHEREAS the Village Treasurer has received a proposal from Duff & Phelps LLC of
Morristown, New Jersey, for consulting services related to GASB 34 for the compiling
of a fixed asset accounting ledger,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the proposals from Duff & Phelps in the
amount of $2,625 for the aforementioned consulting services for the fiscal years
ending May 31, 2021, and May 31, 2022.
Resolution #53 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village maintains the boat basin located at Senasqua Park; and
WHEREAS it is necessary to construct new docks at the boat basin this year; and
WHEREAS the Village has available funds in the Parks account code due to the
closure of the Village playgrounds last year due to COVID-19,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
transfer $4,000 in the General Fund 2020-2021 budget as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 14

Increase
A7180.4700 – Special Rec. Facilities – Equipment Repairs $4,000
Decrease
A7110.4140 – Parks – Playground Equipment & Grounds

$4,000

Resolution #54 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, has switched to
broadcasting board meetings via Zoom videoconference, and
WHEREAS such cost of such subscription was not budgeted for in the General Fund
2020-2021 budget, and
WHEREAS the Village has available funds in the part-time employee line in the
Publicity account due to meetings not being filmed live,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
transfer $3,000 in the General Fund 2020-2021 budget as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A6410.4000 – Publicity – Contractual
Decrease
A6410.1100 – Publicity – Personnel Services (PT)

$3,000
$3,000

Resolution #55 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village receives insurance recovery funds from time to time due to
damage to equipment and vehicles, and
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 15

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees would like to designate the Manager to
approve budget modifications resulting from the receipt of insurance recovery
funds,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees authorizes the
Village Manager to approve budget modifications in all funds of the Village
associated with monies received from insurance recoveries,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: effective April 5, 2021, insurance recovery budget
modification resolutions will no longer be required,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: the proposed insurance recovery resolutions on the
April 5, 2021, Board of Trustees agenda will be withdrawn.
9.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS – none

10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on March 22, 2021 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 4-0 vote; Trustee Murtaugh
abstained.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on March 22,
2021 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS
Trustee Gallelli encouraged residents to participate in our upcoming
Budget work sessions and advised that the Planning Board did a site visit
to 41-51 Maple Street a week ago as part of their approval process.
Trustee Horowitz advised that the “Diversity and Inclusion Committee” will
be holding a discussion on Thursday, April 22 nd on the history of race and
encouraged anyone interested to R.S.V.P.; the “Diversity and Inclusion
Committee” and the “Arts and Humanities Council” is hoping to have a
joint session on racism as well and thanked the “Conservation Advisory
Council” and Terrence McGarty for pursuing the grant for “Trees for
Tribs”.

15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 16

Trustee Murtaugh expressed his regret on the passing of John Habib, it is
an honor to fill out the remainder of his term, he promises to attempt to
bring the same level of enthusiasm, vitality and energy that John had, and
thanked the Board for asking him back. Trustee Murtaugh stated that he
wants to get a greater understanding of the relationship between “Hudson
National Golf Club” and its neighbors and to go back into the history and
he looks forward to working with the Planning Board trying to bring some
solace to that neighborhood.
Trustee Simon advised that the Rotary Club is putting together a Croton
Memorial for Covid victims, they have planted some beautiful Dogwood
trees at “Croton Landing”, and we are looking at placing a plaque there as
well sometime in May; this coming Wednesday at 7:00pm, he and Trustee
Gallelli will be co-hosting a meeting regarding the Upper Village on
outdoor dining, parking issues, safety and aesthetics and encouraged
those who are interested to participate in the program. Trustee Simon
stated that he has gone through the “American Jobs Act”, every aspect in
this has some connection to issues relating to Croton and he will report
regularly on what is happening on that front.
Mayor Pugh advised that after many years of service to the Village, Krissy
Gilligan, our “Deputy Village Clerk” will be leaving the Village of Croton to
pursue a career as Village Clerk in another municipality.
Mayor Pugh appointed Bryan Healy as “Deputy Village Clerk” and Deputy
Registrar” effective April 12, 2021.
Mayor Pugh made the following appointments:
James Tuman
Stephen Gosnell
Carl Grimm
Stuart Greenbaum
Merrily Besvinick
Tom Kristich

Zoning Board of Appeals
Conservation Advisory Council
Conservation Advisory Council
Waterfront Advisory Committee
Waterfront Advisory Committee
Arts & Humanities Advisory Council

Term ends 12/2025
Term ends 12/2022
Term ends 12/2022
Term ends 12/2021
Term ends 12/2021
Terms ends 12/2022

Village Manager King advised that the Blood Drive will be back on April 26 th.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:55pm
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 1, 2021
Page 17

Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

17

