D & I Committee Meeting - Final Minutes 12.16.20_v2.docx

-1-

Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee: FINAL MINUTES
Wednesday, December 16, 2020, 7:00 PM Video Conference
Present: Leo Wiegman, Jodi Epstein Hoefler, Sherry Horowitz, Amy Melman, Michael
Mui, Jessica Ganus, Justin Johnson, John Habib, Aliyah Simpson
Google Meet: https://meet.google.com/pfs-wdhm-yvy
Div & Inc Committee webpage: https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversity-andinclusion-committee
AGENDA
1. New Business
a. Health and Welfare check.
b. Introductions of new guests: No new guests.
i.
We did establish that Mayor Pugh has appointed Justin Johnson and
Lisa Stefanoff.
ii.
We need to follow up on whether Mayor has also appointed
Michael Miu and Jessica Ganus.
c. Leadership Transition: (2 mins) (Leo)
i.
We need a Co-Chair! If interested in serving as a Co-Chair for next term,
please email Mayor Pugh at bpugh@crotononhudson-ny.gov to apply for
the position.
ii.
This position involves strategic planning, drafting agenda and minutes,
leading meetings, and the guiding of our committee activities. Team
members remaining on for next term can support your transition for months
of December and January.
2. Ongoing Activities (25 mins)
a. Native American Heritage Month: Letter to Editor (Justin, Jodi)
b. Discussion Group subcommittee:
i.
We have position openings for two Co-moderator roles within our
Discussion Group subcommittee. The first co-moderator opening is now
available, and the second in late January. This role requires interest in
moderating such a forum, along with a basic understanding of the Zoom
software application or similar technologies. (5 mins) (Jodi, Maria)
ii.
During transition, our successful Discussion Group/forum will continue. Jodi
can assist a new Co-Moderator between now and late January, at which
point she begins maternity leave.
iii. Upcoming Discussion Group topics:
(1) Michael Mui, Effective Communication/Identity Badging, 1/12/2021
(2) Lisa Stefanoff, Gender Identification language, Feb 2021
(3) Dr Fred Opie, Local Black Family History, date_TBD

D & I Committee Meeting - Final Minutes 12.16.20_v2.docx

-2-

c. Schools Update: (5 mins) (Aliyah, Maria, Lisa).
i.
Croton-Harmon District: District has established an Equality Committee with
a No Place for Hate ADL certification program.
ii.
Hendrick Hudson District: No update, need to identify a liaison to Hen Hud
schools.
d. MLK Day – Croton Houses of Worship (CHOW):
i.
Planning for a book reading event and community discussion centered
around “The Gospel of Freedom” by Jonathan Reider. This book is NOT in
the Westchester Library System, making a book event based on it harder to
organize. (Justin)
e. Croton Free Library Update: (Amy)
i.
We discussed that the function of a Book Recommendation Committee
should/could be. Amy and the CFL have provided us with excellent book
recommendations for Native American Heritage Month, which are now
published on our committee webpage.
ii.
We discussed the timing of the process could be better organized:
1. Themes for the months flow from the Diversity Calendar. (See
calendar at our Committee’s webpage link above.)
2. Ideally, we coordinate request for suggested readings with the
Croton Free Library staff librarians (children, young adult,
adult) one montb in advance.
3. This will allow more time to vet suggestions and determine
which titles are available via the WLS system.
4. Books we recommend that are NOT in the WLS system can be
listed with that disclaimer.
5. Once the lists are prepared, they are published both on the
CFL website and the Div & Inc Committee webpage on the
Village’s website.
f. Future Project Roles: (Incoming Committee Members should volunteer for at
least one project) (5 mins)
i.
Discussion Group: Aliyah, Maria, Jodi, Sherry, John
ii.
Schools Group: Aliyah, Maria
iii.
Book Recommendations Group: Amy, Tsui, Justin, Leo
iv.
Supervision/Strategy: Leo, (Incoming Co-Chair);
v.
Communications/Public Relations: Jodi; ______ OPEN after Feb 1.
1. Jodi explained the Communications role includes (1)
Monitoring the email account for incoming messages and for
outbound notices, (2) Preparing Discussion Group e-flyers and
emailing invitations. Managing RSVPs, (3) Assisting letters to
the editor efforts.
vi.
Charities and Non-Profits Liaison: Tsui
vii. Website Liaison; Lisa Stefanoff expressed interest.
viii. Police Reform Liaison: Michael Mui
ix.
Member Recruitment and Onboarding: Maria;

D & I Committee Meeting - Final Minutes 12.16.20_v2.docx

x.
xi.

-3-

Member Training and Education: Michael, _____
Houses of Faith Liaison: Justin

3. Administration (10 mins)
a. Committee Membership: Required Training:
i.
The required training for all Village Committee volunteers is offered by
Village through PERMA is available online and has been reduced to 2 classes
(Workplace Violence, and Sexual Harassment).
ii.
The URL links are attached to the minutes of last meeting 11/18/20)
iii.
Send your 2 course certificates to Village Asst Mgr, Brian Healy,
bhealy@crotononhudson-ny.gov
iv.
New village volunteers have 2 months to complete the courses 2 hours).
b. Review of received email communications (5 mins) (Jodi)
c. Set next meeting date: typically 3rd Wednesday of the month; January 20, 2021,
d. Adoption of minutes of prior meeting
e. Other:
i.
Committee members bios for webpage: (Save for next meeting)
Enclosures:
Members: Leo Wiegman, Tsui Pappas, Jodi Epstein Hoefler, Maria Modica-Snow, Amy
Melman, Lisa Stefanoff, Michael Mui, Jessa Mittelman, Jessica Ganus, Kristen Mather
de Andrade, Aliyah Simpson, Justin Johnson, Amy Melman, Daniel Oppenheim.
Village Trustees: Sherry Horowitz, John Habib, Len Simon.

