PLANNING BOARD MEETING MINUTES
VIA ZOOM VIDEO CONFERENCE
March 9, 2021
PRESENT:

Chairman Luntz
Steve Krisky
Geoff Haynes
Bruce Kauderer
John Gheegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison Alternate
1. Call to Order
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of March 9, 2021 to order at 7:01 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Kearney, Brian -- 25 Wolf Road 9Sec. 67.19 Block 1 Lot 13) --Application for new
Accessory Apartment as required by Chapter 230-41, Accessory Apartments, in
the Village Code.
Mr. Kearney stated that he would like to add an accessory apartment to his home on Wolf Road.
The accessory apartment will have a separate entrance in the back and three off-street parking
spaces (the garage will be cleaned out to create an additional parking spot, a space has been
created parallel to the street, and there is a parking space in the driveway). Mr. Kearney stated
that an accessory apartment will help him economically.
The Planning Board noted that Mr. Kearney’s application met all the requirements. The
Planning Board members noted that because street parking can get tight on this street, they
would like to limit the tenant to only a single car (with the leeway of having an occasional guest
car, but not a second permanent car). Mr. Kearney stated he was comfortable with this
condition. The Planning Board agreed that an occasional guest parking on the street was
acceptable.
The Village Engineer noted that the walkway needed to be extended from the front to the rear
entrance. Mr. Kearney stated that he planned to install a pathway of pavers and gravel to
extend to the back patio. The Planning Board members agreed that a less formal pathway
would be an aesthetically pleasing and satisfactory solution.
Chairman Luntz asked if there were any comments from the public since the neighbors were
notified (as required by the Accessory Apartment law), however, there were no comments.

MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the accessory apartment with the added
conditions that the renter (tenant) be limited to a single car to maintain the required three car
maximum off street parking, and that a walkway be provided from the front to the back entrance.
Mr. Krisky seconded the motion and the vote carried, all in favor, 5-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE,
Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan AYE).
b) Tokke, Hans of Double Docs Design--7 Old Post Road South (Sec. 79.05 Block 1
Lot 54)-- Application for Change of Use permit from professional services use to
retail business use.
Mr. Hans Tokke explained that Double Docs Design is a small retail store for home decor with a
sign gallery located in the back of the store. He is the sole proprietor although he will have
occasional help from his wife and son. He noted that there will be limited garbage generated,
no food, and no deliveries since most of the deliveries go to his home office in Crotonville. At
the present time, he is proposing that Mondays and Tuesdays will be closed, and the hours for
the other days to be determined.
Mr. Tokke presented the proposed signage located above the store and the proposed logo
placement on the window. The Planning Board explained that the signage application will be
reviewed by the Advisory Board of the Visual Environment and the Planning Board, after receipt
of this recommendation, will vote on the final approval.
The Planning Board members agreed that this proposal was a good use of space and all were
in favor of the change of use and in favor of waiving the on-street parking requirement given the
low impact nature of the store and a sole employee.
The Planning Board also recommended to Mr. Tokke that there is a municipal lot across the
street and he could obtain a permit to park there.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to refer the signage to the Advisory Board of the Visual
Environment and to approve the Change of Use, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion
carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE,
Haynes AYE, Ghegan AYE).
c) North Riverside Commercial Builders--43 North Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.08
Block 3 Lot 79) --Application for amended site plan approval for rear patio dining.
PRESENT: Mr. Ronald Napolitani, applicant, and Ms. Julie Evans, architect
Ms. Evans stated that this application was a continuation of the Change of Use permit granted
previously for the interior of 43 North Riverside Avenue for outside dining. There currently
exists outside dining at the Tavern (41 North Riverside Avenue) and the proposed outside
dining next door at 43 North Riverside Avenue will be similar. The concrete patio will be

2

replaced with pavers to match the existing pavers next door in addition to a handicap accessible
ramp to get to the dining space.
In terms of seating, as drawn on the submitted plan, there will be twenty (20) new outdoor seats
with the combined patio configuration in addition to the indoor seats as discussed previously at
the Change of Use submission. Ms. Evans stated that she believes the space can handle the
proposed additional 42 seats. The lighting levels will be identical (party lights above the tables)
to next door at the Tavern. She noted that fences have been upgraded and the perimeter of
property is being improved in addition to the restoration of the rear retaining wall with stone.
Mr. Napolitani stated that he had reached out to his neighbors and had submitted letters of
support from Mr. McCarthy (39 North Riverside Avenue), Mr. Waters (6 Farrington), and Mr.
Rundle (45 and 49 North Riverside Avenue). With respect to parking on the street, Mr.
Napolitani noted that many customers walk across the pedestrian bridge or from Half Moon Bay
to the restaurant.
Ms. Marianne DePalma, owner of the Tavern, stated that she and Mr. Napolitani are continuing
to improve the restaurant. Business has been down 50% during the past year’s pandemic but
outside dining has helped because customers preferred to be outside.
Mr. Haynes expressed his concerns about fire safety since there were only two egress options
and the alleyways seemed narrow. He stated he would like to see additional egress. Mr.
Napoitani pointed out that there are two exits on either side of the building and one side is the
warming kitchen part (the actual kitchen is at 41 NRA), and there is no kitchen on the other side.
There was further discussion of an additional emergency exit and the Planning Board
encouraged Mr. Napolitani to discuss the option of an emergency gate as part of the fencing
that divides the patio and Mr. Rundle’s property. They also recommended having the Fire
Department review emergency exit options. Chairman Luntz noted that the ramp, as drawn, did
not appear to have the space required for wheelchair accessibility. Ms. Evans stated that she
would fine-tune the drawing of the landing for a more accurate rendering.
Mr. John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, expressed concerns about maneuverability on the
landing area for handicapped persons.
Ms. Debi Braddock, Young Avenue, spoke in favor of the plan and expressed support for
outside dining at the restaurant.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to hold a public hearing on March 23, 2021, seconded by
Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0. The Planning Board asked Mr.
Napolitani and Ms. DePalma to have the Fire Department review the emergency exit plan.

3

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
a) Jaeger, Andrew (contract vendee) --123 North Riverside Avenue (Section 67.20
Block 4 Lot 10.01) -- Application for Minor site plan approval and steep slopes
permit for construction of new single-family dwelling.
PRESENT: Mr. Andrew Jaeger, contract vendee, Mr. Lance Amato, architect, Mr. Ed Vergano,
P.E., consulting engineer
The Planning Board members agreed that the site visit on March 10, 2021 had been a
productive and helpful visit.
Mr. Amato stated that in response to concerns about the site lines from other properties, they
had changed the pitch of the roof and relocated the cellar door so that the proposed house now
meets the required maximum height of 35 feet. Chairman Luntz noted that the Planning Board
had received a letter of support in favor of the project from 114 Old Post Road North.
The Planning Board reviewed and discussed the sixteen steep slopes criteria responses and
were satisfied that the steep slopes requirements had been met.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and
the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
Chairman Luntz opened the hearing to comments from the public:
Rob and Beth Marchant, 19 Prospect Place, expressed concerns with the design and bulk of the
proposed house and stated that they did not believe the design and size were a good fit with the
neighborhood. They were concerned about the removal of trees and expressed appreciation
for anything the Planning Board could do that would address the bulk, glare and landscaping for
improved screening.
Mr. John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, asked how these two lots were allowed to be combined,
and expressed concern about the flow of water to a state highway (Route 9A). Chairman Luntz
explained that the Planning board does not create lots, rather the lot is being created by the
applicant and the people selling the properties. The Zoning Board had granted a variance to
address the frontage shortage.
Frank and Christine Corrado, 133 North Riverside Avenue, stated that a large portion of that
highway will be behind their property and that a significant amount of water flows towards their
house. Mr. Vergano, P.E., stated that the drainage proposed will create a better situation than
what there has been.
Myra Oney, 135 North Riverside Avenue, said she had several concerns: drainage, the impact
to her fence and her neighbor’s gardens if the driveway was going to be widened, concerns

4

about snow removal and where the removed snow would go, the location of recycling and
garbage cans, and whether there is access for fire trucks or delivery vans.
Mr. Jaeger stated that he will look into snow removal, as well as the mailbox, trash and recycling
locations. He stated that the water flow will be caught in the catch basins. The Village Engineer
noted that the house is going to have a sprinkler system and the Fire Department would run
hoses up and hand lines up the driveway. The Fire Chief had attended the site visit and had
said that this approach was typical for other similar properties in the village.
The Planning Board requested that the applicant be prepared to address at the next meeting the
following: snow removal, trash, driveway widening issue, property screening, glare, and
landscaping.
Mr. Paul Leis, realtor representing Mr. Jaeger, commented that many of the trees proposed to
be removed were in very poor condition, and that the current lot is something of an eyesore. He
stated that he believes the proposed house will be an asset to the neighborhood. He also noted
that a large part of the property is flat and that Mr. Jaeger is not building on the steep slope part.
The Planning Board agreed to leave the public hearing open so that the applicant can provide
an update on the items requested.
b) Croton Riverside LLC --25 South Riverside Avenue (Section 78.8 Block 5 Lots
42, 43, 59, and 60) --Application for preliminary consolidation subdivision, site
plan, and steep slope permit approval for 39-unit apartment building.
PRESENT: Kory Salomone, Esq., Philip Spagnoli, Ralph Rossi, Mark Day, project engineer
MOTION; Mr. Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and
the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
As a followup from the discussion at the last meeting on the space between the back of the
building and the retaining wall, Mr. Rossi stated that they had discussed with one of the
neighbors about placing the soil nails into his property so that the entire rear of the building can
go back 20 feet instead of 10 feet. Mr. Kauderer noted that this would be a great improvement
for the project.
There was further discussion about the house rules, including the addition of all ambient lighting
and grills to automatically shut down, and the hours of the rooftop amenity. The applicant
stated that they would like the rooftop to close at 10 p.m. which is an hour earlier than in a
residential neighborhood. Although there was some concern about the neighbors behind the
building, most of the Planning Board members thought that 10 p.m. was acceptable.
Chairman Luntz opened the public hearing to comments:

5

Dr. Bruce Hoskins, veterinarian at Croton Animal Hospital, asked about the construction near
his property line and his building and noted that there was no screening between the two
properties. Mr. Rossi stated that there would be no excavating into the area near the property
line, but he would be happy to provide screening between the properties. Mr. Rossi will speak
to Dr. Hoskins about the kind of plantings that would be helpful for screening.
There were no additional comments at this time. The Planning Board agreed that the public
hearing could now be closed since there has been plenty of opportunity in previous meetings for
comments from the public, visits to the neighbors’ properties, and follow up responses from the
applicants in response to neighbors’ questions and concerns. Mr. Kauderer made a motion to
close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote
of 5-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan AYE).
4. REFERRALS
a) Regan Development Corporation (contract vendee) --41-51 Maple Street (also
known as the “Katz Property”) -- Referral from the Village Board for review of Special
Permit application for a multifamily residential development consisting of 33 apartments
within two 2-story buildings.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board’s action tonight is to give consent for the Village
Board to be designated as Lead Agency in the SEQRA process and to begin to understand the
proposed project. Mr. Aaron Werner, the environmental consultant who is handling the SEQR
review, from AKRF (Environmental, Planning, and Engineering Consultants) attended the
meeting, as did Mr. Jamie Easton, civil engineer, from Prime Companies.
The proposed development consists of two buildings on 2.4 acres with equal distribution of 1, 2,
and 3 bedrooms. A traffic study, SWPPP report, a water and sewer impact analysis, a
geotechnical review of proposed retaining wall and steep slopes, and a look at the visuals and
community character and the archaeology of the vacant site will be submitted as part of the
Special Permit application.
There was some discussion about how the original proposal which consisted of only 1 and 2bedroom apartments differed from the current proposal which included 1, 2, 3- bedroom
apartments. Mr. Easton stated that the building has increased in length but that visually the
buildings do not change much with the new revised ratios of 1, 2 and 3-bedroom apartments.
Other items briefly discussed:
● Parking requirements and impacts with the additional three bedrooms
● Affordable housing and income eligibility as well as selection process
● Traffic issues at this location and traffic flow in and out of the proposed development
● Fiscal implications for the schools with additional three-bedroom apartments
● Pedestrian and Bike access to Croton Commons and potential connectivity between
shopping areas
● Traffic calming measures
6

The Planning Board began a discussion on the five criteria for its recommendation of a Special
Permit to the Village Board but then agreed that they would benefit from a site visit to the
property before making any further analyses. A site visit will be coordinated by staff for the
following week.
Mr. Neal Haber, Croton-Harmon School District Board member, requested to speak, and stated
that under New York State Education law, school buses cannot go on private property to pick up
or drop off students. He recommended that there be some coordination with the district
transportation supervisor about bus stop locations. He also noted that enrollment projections
should also be considered. He pointed out that the developers should also consider the
pedestrian flow of school-age children who will be walking to the elementary, middle-school and
high schools.
MOTION: Mr. Ghegan made a motion that the Planning Board had no object to the Village
Board being Lead Agency, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried, all in favor by a
vote of 5-0 ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan AYE)
5. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 23, 2021, as
amended, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 to 0, all in favor.
(ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan AYE).
6,. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 11:11
p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

7

