MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING ON
JANUARY 12, 2021
Via Zoom Video Conference
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Len Simon, Alternate Village Board Liaison
1. Call to Order: Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of January 12, 2021
via Zoom video conference to order at 7:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) 1926 83rd Realty Corp --104 Maple Street (Sec. 79.5 Block 5 Lot 25) -Application for preliminary subdivision approval for a two-family home on a single
lot into two individual single-family lots.

Present: Dan Pancotti, Attorney for the applicants, Mr. William Lui and Ms. Jeannie Lui,
property owners and applicants
MOTION TO OPEN PUBLIC HEARING: Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing,
seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
Ms. Jeannie Lui stated that 104 Maple Street is a side-by-side duplex and she and her husband
want to subdivide the one lot into two separate lots. The Zoning Board of Appeals has granted
the necessary variances, and the Village Engineer conducted a property inspection this morning
and reviewed items needed to be completed for necessary repairs and separate water meters.
The Village Engineer explained that there are two electric meters, and two gas meters but only
one water meter for the entire building. There is also a common sewer line which can be used
with a maintenance agreement. The Water Department requires that each unit be separately
metered and the owner will also have to separate the plumbing supply.
In a response to a question about the retaining wall which straddles the two lots, the Village
Engineer stated that the shared components (retaining wall, siding, roof gutters, etc.) will have
to be addressed in a common maintenance agreement. This agreement would run with the
property and address all of the building maintenance issues. The common maintenance
agreement will be reviewed by the Village Engineer and the Village Attorney, and then return to
the Planning Board for its review of final subdivision approval.

The Village Engineer also stated that a certified survey will be required and the firewall has to
meet certain requirements. An agreement will need to provide an easement to access circuit
breakers as well. Also required will be smoke and carbon monoxide alarms and a party wall in
the attic (currently only open space). These requirements and conditions are included in the
draft resolution.
After the Chairman reviewed some of the conditions as outlined in the draft resolution, there
were no further comments from the Planning Board members.
The Planning Board then reviewed the application for the purposes of SEQR. The Planning
Board reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form, parts 1 and 2, and no changes
were noted. The Planning Board made a Negative Declaration and stated that there will be no
adverse environmental impacts.
The Planning Board reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and determined there will be no
significant impact on the coastal area. Based on the review by the Waterfront Advisory
Committee and its memo, the Planning Board also reviewed the LWRP policies and agreed that
there are no policies that are applicable, and therefore made the determination that the
proposed subdivision is compatible with the LWRP.
MOTION TO CLOSE PUBLIC HEARING: There being no comments from the public, the public
hearing was closed on a motion by Mr. Krisky, seconded by Mr. Haynes and the motion carried,
all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
The Planning Board then reviewed the draft resolution for preliminary subdivision approval. The
Planning Board had no further comments to add to the draft resolution.
MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the Preliminary Subdivision of 104 Maple
Street, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL:
Luntz AYE; Kauderer AYE, Krisky AYE, Haynes, AYE, Ghegan, AYE)
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of December 22, 2020, as
amended, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
(ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE; Kauderer AYE, Krisky AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan AYE)
4. DISCUSSION OF NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
a. Chairman Luntz noted that Mr. Kauderer has been researching and spearheading an
effort to have a mitigation fund for the removal of trees in the HNGC solar matrix
proposal. Therefore, Chairman Luntz announced that he is appointing Mr. Kauderer as
the representative for negotiation on behalf of the Planning Board with the Village Board
relative to mitigation fund effort. Mr. Kauderer thanked Chairman Luntz and stated he

2

will keep the Planning Board informed and will be getting in touch with the mayor. He is
happy to discuss any concerns on the phone with individual members.
b. Mr. Krisky raised two traffic calming measures he believes need to be addressed by the
village: 1) installing a crosswalk from Croton Commons shopping center to the eastern
side of Maple Street (previously discussed by the Planning Board) and 2) providing a
thick and noticeable demarcation line at the first Shoprite entranceway (near Pronto
Pizza).
In response to the discussion about the crosswalk near Croton Commons, the Village
Engineer stated that he will direct that question to the Village Manager who will discuss
with the DPW and the Village Board.
In response to the Shoprite parking lot, the Village Engineer stated he will reach out to
the owner of the property and discuss this with them since it is a property maintenance
site plan issue.
The Planning Board noted for the record that they consider this intersection near Pronto
Pizza and the rest of the Shoprite Parking lot to be a dangerous situation for pedestrians
and should be addressed with additional demarcation lines for car traffic. It was noted
that the stop sign is not permanently mounted in the ground (seen toppled over) and will
need to be installed permanently.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

