PLANNING BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF
FEBRUARY 9, 2021 ZOOM MEETING
PRESENT:

Chairman Robert Luntz
Steven Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
Bruce Kauderer
John Gheegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison, Alternate
1. Call to Order
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 9, 2021 to order at 7:03 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a. Rossi, Ralph and Spagnoli, Phil --25 South Riverside Avenue (Section 78.8 Block 5 Lots
42m 43, 59, and 60) --Application for preliminary subdivision, site plan, and steep slope
permit approval for 39-unit apartment building.
Present: Kory Salomone, Philip Spagnoli, Ralph Rossi, Brian Stokosa
Mr. Brian Stokosa, P.E., consulting engineer for the applicant, presented in more detail the proposed 39unit residential building. The Planning Board then began its initial review and discussion on a range of
items including:
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

Parking both outside in the open lot and parking in the garage; garage security, charging stations,
handicapped spots, assigned spots
Landscaping and tree placements and tree trimming easements
Lobby location and logistics for delivery of packages
Solar grid on rooftop
Interior of building including location of elevator system and stairway access points
Location of affordable housing units and their integration into the building
Bike racks and kayak storage
Garbage collection
Coordination with the NYSDOT on the entrance relocation
Discussion with the Village Engineer and DPW about water and sewer lines, stormwater
drainage, and utilities placement.
Signage marker

The Planning Board also requested:
●
●
●
●

An updated rendering of the building with the recommendation of an awning for the entrance and
materials to be used on the building
A rooftop operations plan with lighting specifics and addressing noise levels
An erosion and sediment control plan
A stormwater plan (has to meet DEC guidelines) with maintenance and operational plan

●

●

An escrow account to be established for review by the village’s consulting engineering firm
(Chazen) particularly on the tiered retaining wall system and slope stabilization plan and
landscaping, and any legal assistance required
A call for a public hearing at the next meeting for a public meeting to be scheduled for the March
9, 2021 meeting

Mr. Kauderer made a motion to have the escrow fund set up to assist the Planning Board with
professional assistance (engineering and legal) to be initially set up with the transfer of money already
placed in escrow from the Special Permit process, ($9200) and increased if necessary if further funds are
required. Mr. Krisky seconded the motion and the motion carried, all in favor by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL
CALL: Luntz AYE, Kauderer AYE, Krisky AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan AYE)
Chairman Luntz stated that although tonight’s meeting is not a public hearing, the Planning Board invites
those in the audience to make a brief comment if so desired.
Ms. Mariel Gallego, 8 Barton Place, expressed concern about smoke drifting to her home from the three
grills on the rooftop lounge area. The applicant responded that these are electrical grills and they did not
anticipate them to be used very frequently nor did they believe that they would generate enough smoke to
reach Barton Place.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of January 12, 2021, seconded by Mr.
Kauderer, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
4. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
●

●

●

HNGC application: There will be two special permits required--one for the maintenance yard and
the other for the solar matrix project. These applications will be concurrent and be reviewed
separately with the Village Board.
Half Moon Bay: The Village Engineer stated that the escrow check in the amount of $35,000 has
been mailed to the Village and the Treasurer will confirm when received.
The revetment repair will begin first and then the asphalt path will be installed in warmer weather.
The easement location is to be corrected.
Abby’s Deli: The Planning Board inquired about the status of the apartments at 370 SRA. The
applicant had called for a water meter. The applicant may still be waiting for Con Edison to
connect them. The Building Department will do a pre-final inspection for a punch list of the
remainder of items needed for closure.

5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the Planning Board meeting was adjourned at
8:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

2

