PLANNING BOARD MEETING MINUTES
VIA ZOOM VIDEO CONFERENCE
FEBRUARY 23, 2021
PRESENT:

Chairman Luntz
Steve Krisky
Geoff Haynes
Bruce Kauderer
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison Alternate
1. Call to Order
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 23, 2021 to order at 7:02 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Rossi, Ralph and Spagnoli, Phil --25 South Riverside Avenue (Section 78.8 Block
5 Lots 42, 43, 59, and 60)--Application for preliminary subdivision, site plan, and
steep slope permit approval for 39-unit apartment building.
PRESENT: Kory Salomone, Esq., Philip Spagnoli, Ralph Rossi, Mark Day, project engineer
Mr. Salmone followed up on the comments provided by the Planning Board from the previous
meeting:
●

●

●
●

Tree trimming easement: Mr. Salamone reiterated that the tree trimming easement
simply allows the neighbors to come on to the applicants’ property to trim trees; the
owners (applicant) are within their legal rights to use that property as long as they don’t
interfere with the neighbors’ view of the rivers. The applicants have limited the tree size
to under 12’ DBH, and the retaining wall has been moved out of the tree trimming
easement completely.
Affordable Housing Units: There will be three affordable units on the first floor, and one
on the second floor. The Planning Board agreed that the location of the affordable units
are satisfactory and complied with the legal requirements.
Bike racks have been shown on the plans
House Rules: The Planning Board discussed at length the rooftop amenity rules; the
Planning Board agreed that the rules governing the interior of the building could best be
managed by the landlord. It was agreed that the building code would determine the
number of people on the rooftop.

The Planning Board was primarily concerned about how the rooftop would affect the
neighboring properties. The board agreed that if there was any proposed change in the
house rules as it concerned the rooftop amenity, the change should first be submitted to
the Village Engineer. If the change was disapproved, the owner would have the right to
appeal to the Planning Board.
Mr. Rossi stated that they take the house rules seriously. If the rules are abused, the
tenant is fined. Every tenant signs these rules prior to renting.
The Planning Board discussed the hours of operation of the rooftop amenity. Some of
the Planning Board members wanted the hours of availability to be earlier, and proposed
a 9:30 p.m. closing, others were satisfied with making the available hours a little later
until 10 p.m. on Friday and Saturday. Although it was agreed that this issue would be
revisited at the public hearing, the Planning Board members all agreed that they wanted
to be reasonable but remain sensitive to the neighbors. Mr. Rossi noted that they (i.e.
the owners) had been more restrictive than what is stipulated in the residential code for
noise and hours guidelines (65 DBA, 70 in a commercial setting) and had therefore
reduced the hours to one hour earlier in the evening.
The Village Engineer suggested that the house rules include grill use (e.g. safety power
off feature, no food left on grills).
●
●
●
●

●

●

●

Canopy: The canopy will be on the front of the building and included in more detail with
the rendering.
Signage locations were discussed.
Electrical Vehicle Chargers were discussed
Outdoors parking area: Mr. Kauderer noted that he would like to see five spaces in the
outside parking area be reserved for guests and added to the house rules; Mr. Rossi
agreed.
Lighting: Chairman Luntz noted that a lighting plan had been shown, and that the light
levels essentially showed that there was no spillage onsite and that the light was
directed downwards on the roof. Chazen will also review the lighting plan.
Chazen review: The Planning Board agreed that the village’s engineering consultant,
Chazen, should review the retaining walls and retention of the hillside, lighting levels,
landscaping plan (Chazen has a landscape architect on staff), SWPPP, and drainage
plans.
Building’s proximity to retaining wall: On the plan C101 cross section, Mr. Kauderer
asked why there couldn’t be more space (about 5-10 feet more) between the wall and
the apartments in the back so that there is more light and air for these tenants.
Mr. Rossi stated that they would like to move the wall back more but the soil nails would
then go under neighboring properties. They would need permission from neighbors to
advance soil nails in their properties.

2

●
●

●

Chairman Luntz, in agreement with Mr. Kauderer, stated that it appeared there was
more room that could be gained on the southern end and it was a little misleading on the
plan.
Mr. Rossi agreed that the plan on paper needed to be cleaned up and updated with the
proper scale in each section so that the plan accurately represents what is being
proposed.
Utility and drainage system clarification: The Village Engineer met with DPW and they
will be making a site visit on their own regarding the relocation of village utilities.
Police, Fire, DPW: The Planning Board will refer to these departments for comments.
The Village Engineer had spoken with DPW about trash and recycling and DPW did not
want to have to roll out the dumpsters. Chairman Luntz noted that it was his
understanding that the Super of the building was going to roll out the containers on
pickup days. The applicant suggested an alternative for the dumpsters which would
alter the outside tiered retaining wall and create one 40 ft retaining wall, but Chairman
Luntz stated that the wall would be monolithic in scope and he would not be in favor of
replacing the tiered walls.
NYSDOT: Mr. Rossi stated that they have submitted all the paperwork to the DOT and
in the process of submitting a full staging plan. They wanted to finalize the storm and
sanitary sewer plan but are holding off until they hear from the village about the routing
of the storm and sanitary sewers.

Mr. Kauderer made a motion to schedule a public hearing on steep slopes, site plan approval,
and subdivision approval on March 9, 2021, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried all
in favor by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE,
Ghegan AYE)
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Jaeger, Andrew (contract vendee) --123 North Riverside Avenue (Section 67.20
Block 4 Lot 10.01) -- Application for Minor site plan approval and steep slopes
permit for construction of new single-family dwelling.
PRESENT: Andrew Jaeger, contract vendee, Lance Amato, architect, Ed Vegano, P.E.,
consulting engineer
Mr. Jaeger stated he is still in the process of purchasing the property and the purchase sale is
contingent on the outcome of these meetings, Once approved, the sale will go through, and he
is proposing a single family to sell. He noted that there are two lots owned by two separate
property owners, the Zoning Board granted a 2 ft. variance for the frontage (has 18 ft instead of
the required 20 ft.)
There is an easement for the driveway. Mr. Kauderer recommended that there be a
maintenance agreement regarding snow plowing and driveway maintenance.

3

The Planning Board members agreed that it would be helpful to have a site visit to get an idea
about the height of the house and how that might impact the neighbors’ views, as well as
privacy screening, but at present there is too much snow. It was agreed that if the snow melts
and there is improved access to the property, a site visit will be arranged.
Some of the members expressed concern about the height of the proposed house; however, the
Village Engineer, and Chairman Luntz agreed, that the architect could bring up the average
grade line. There was a general discussion about whether blasting would be required and
potential areas for a front lawn.
Mr. Vergano, the applicant’s engineer, stated that emergency and ambulance vehicles would be
able to negotiate turns on the driveway, however because a fire truck would not be able to
navigate these turns, a sprinkler system was being proposed.
Mr. Jaeger noted that he had sent out letters to neighbors in the area, and had met with two of
the neighbors--one neighbor was concerned about erosion and the other was worried about
driveway usage. A third neighbor was concerned about snow removal. Mr. Jaeger explained
what his intent was for these issues, and the neighbors seemed satisfied.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board did not have any big issues about the design or
layout of the house. The Planning Board directed the applicant to provide a landscape
screening plan, and to show how the steep slope will be protected during excavation. The
Planning Board also directed the applicant to have the plans sent to the Fire Chief regarding the
adequacy of a sprinkler system, and the possibility of getting a pumper to the house (the fire
truck with ladder is out of the question).
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to schedule a public hearing on the steep slopes for the
meeting of March 9, 2021, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0 all
in favor (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE, Ghegan AYE)
4. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
●

Chairman Luntz acknowledged, for the record, of the receipt of correspondence
from Dorf and Nelson on behalf of some residents on Prickly Pear Hill, regarding
the solar matrix project. Chairman Luntz stated the Planning Board is waiting to
hear from the Village Board as to how they are going to proceed.
The Planning Board noted that there are two applications from HNGC--one for
the solar matrix project and one for the maintenance yard. The Planning Board
agreed that they would like to see the maintenance yard cleaned up before the
solar matrix project proceeds. The Planning Board is waiting for the referral from
the Village Board on the HNGC maintenance yard. The Planning Board
discussed sending a memo to the Village Board that the Planning Board would
like to see the maintenance yard dealt with first prior to any approval of the solar
4

matrix project as the Planning Board is not prepared to act on the next level of
review of the solar array project without resolution on the special permit
application on the maintenance yard. The Planning Board members noted that
they were not aware that the maintenance building had been built without any
permits. Staff will circulate a draft memo to be sent to the Village Board.
●

Solar Array Project: Mr. Kauderer reiterated his belief that there be a mitigation fund
solely for the purpose of reducing the carbon footprint of the village and not for other
purposes such as for the recreation department purposes or Gouveia. The Planning
Board agreed that a mitigation fund should be related to the reduction of carbon footprint
of the village. Mr. Kauderer stated that there was a suggestion that there would not be
representation of the Planning Board with the mitigation negotiations; the Planning
Board agreed that a Planning Board member should be involved as part of the
negotiation process and agreed that Mr. Kauderer should discuss the Planning Board’s
concerns with Ms. Gallelli, Village Board of Trustee liaison.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 9, 2021,
seconded by Chairman Luntz, and the motion carried by a vote of, 5-0, all in favor.
5,. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 9:31
p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

