PLANNING BOARD MEETING MINUTES
VIA ZOOM VIDEO CONFERENCE
March 23, 2021
PRESENT:

Chairman Robert Luntz
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
Bruce Kauderer
John Ghegan (Absent)

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison Alternate
1. Call to Order
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of March 23, 2021 to order at 7:03 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Tokke, Hans of Double Docs Design--7 Old Post Road South (Sec. 79.05 Block 1
Lot 54)-- Final Approval of signage for retail store.
The Planning Board agreed that the recommendations from the Advisory Board of Visual
Environment (VEB) were very helpful, and asked the applicant if he was in agreement with
these recommendations. Dr. Tokke stated that he was appreciative of the advice and planned
to implement the changes that the VEB had recommended. Dr. Tokke invited the Planning
Board to the ribbon cutting ceremony on April 10, 2021 at noon.
MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to grant final approval of the signage for Double Docs
Design, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz
AYE, Kauderer, AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE, Ghegan ABSENT)
3.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
a) Jaeger, Andrew (contract vendee)--123 North Riverside Avenue (Section 67.20
Block 4 Lot 10.01)-- Application for Minor site plan approval and steep slopes
permit for construction of new single-family dwelling.

Chairman Luntz noted that the public hearing is still open and asked the applicant to discuss
items that were brought up at the previous meeting.
●

Snow removal: Mr. Jaeger stated that heating the driveway was very expensive, but
several snow removal companies have bobcats and dump trucks and will remove snow

●
●

●

●

●

●

off-site and no longer be an issue for neighbors or the village. The Planning Board noted
that this arrangement could be included as a condition in the resolution.
Trash: The Planning Board agreed that trash cans could be put on the grass by the
street for trash and recycling days.
Driveway widening issue: The Planning Board members agreed that it was not in the
best interest of either of the neighbors to try to widen the driveway since there was a
garden on one side and a fence on the other. Mr. Kauderer asked about widening the
driveway where it takes the 90 degree turn so that a delivery truck could make the turn.
Mr. Jaeger stated that his engineer used a special computer program which showed that
a 20-foot box truck can make the turn up the driveway.
Landscape Plan: Mr. Jaeger explained that he had chosen trees that were evergreens
and would be tall enough to provide screening (noted on the plan). The Planning Board
suggested that in order to have a more thorough understanding of what kind of trees will
be planted for screening and maintain viewsheds, that Mr. Jaeger should discuss with a
landscape architect or consult with a local nursery to provide a more detailed landscape
plan. Mr. Jaeger stated he would be happy to do so.
Exterior house materials: Mr. Amato, architect for the applicant, discussed a variety of
siding options that would not create any glare. The Planning Board was satisfied with
the options.
Erosion Control: Mr. Vergano, engineer for the applicant, explained the erosion control
measures that would be utilized during construction. The Village Engineer stated that he
is recommending the applicant install a double row of silt fencing, and add hay bales in
rows. The Village Engineer stated that he was satisfied with the permanent drainage
system being proposed, but that the final plans will be submitted for his final approval.
Fire Protection: Chairman Luntz noted that the Fire Chief had been at the site visit and
had stated that the fire protection measures could include a fully sprinklered building, a
hydrant at the top of the hill, and/or a fire alarm system that is monitored by a central
station. In addition, sprinkler heads could be installed in the garage. Mr. Jaeger is
proposing a fully sprinklered building and stated he was happy to explore other
additional possibilities as well
Mr. Haynes asked about the water pressure and if it was sufficient to get water to the
house. The Village Engineer stated that there is a robust water distribution system that
provides flow at a sustainable pressure in this area of the village.

●

Solar: Mr. Jaeger stated he would look into it, but the Planning Board members agreed
that given which way the roof was pitched, it would not be practical for this house.

Chairman Luntz asked if there were any members interested in speaking at the public hearing:
Mr. Eliezer Becher, 137 North Riverside Avenue, stated that with all the improvements,
maintenance of the shared driveway should now be assigned to the new owner. Mr. Becher
also wanted to be reassured that he would have access to the driveway. He expressed
concerns about the water pressure. The Village Engineer reiterated that the water pressure is
2

sufficient in this area and that the water line has to be the right size, and if there is a problem
with pressure to the house, the water line size will be changed to address this problem. The
applicant’s engineer will design the sprinkler system.
John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, stated that he was dismayed that the Fire Chief was not
present at this meeting. He discussed the fire code as he understood it and stated that he did
not believe the codes were being met. He stated that he did not understand how this piece of
land could be built on as a buildable lot, and he stated that he did not think the design was
appropriate for this neighborhood since many of the houses were colonials, Dutch colonials or
Victorian style homes.
Chairman Luntz explained that this application went to the ZBA and the Zoning Board granted a
variance of 18 ft frontage instead of the 20 ft. required by code. He stated that the Engineering
Department and the Fire Department will sign off on the application.
Debi Braddock, 9 Young Avenue, stated that she is excited for this contemporary house to be
built; and that there are a couple of houses like this in Croton. She pointed out that the entire
village puts their garbage and recycling on the street. There are also many shared driveways in
Croton. She asked if the house meets code, and if it meets the building and fire safety code,
then it should be approved.
Robert Marchant, 19 Prospect, stated that he is more concerned with the bulk and design; the
houses are small and Victorian style and he believes the house will be intrusive and out of
character with the neighborhood. He is also concerned about the fire safety of the house.
Paul Leis, realtor, stated that there are other modern houses in Croton (there is a Marcel Breuer
house on Finney Farm Road) and Croton has been a village that welcomes different types of
architectural styles.
Christine Corrado, 133 North Riverside Avenue, asked about the fence in the rear of her yard
and if she should remove some of the landscaping plants that she had planted there. Mr.
Jaeger stated that he would like to preserve as much as possible but he would be happy to talk
with her in private about which plants to move or relocate.
Valerie Leis, 74 Radnor Avenue, stated that she had worked with Mr. Jaeger for a number of
years and he had always been honest and forthright. She agreed that the water pressure to the
new house should be fine and she believes that the design is interesting and innovative. She
stated that Croton never wanted to have an Architectural Review Board and the village
embraces all different architectural styles.
Hugh Flynn 15 Prospect Place, stated that he concurred with his two neighbors in what they had
to say about the driveway, water pressure and the appearance of the proposed house. He
stated that he thought the proposed house is too big, and not in keeping with the character of
the neighborhood.
3

Liz Flynn, 15 Prospect Place, stated that she also did not think the style of the house was in
keeping with the character of the village.
There being no further comments from the public, Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public
hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz
AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT)
The Planning Board agreed that the fire protection issues were very important to address and
therefore requested that a formal memo from the Fire Chief stating that he feels this is a safe
situation to fight fires along with a response to the other questions raised, be provided to the
Planning Board.
The Planning Board also requested a descriptive landscape and screening plan showing the
types of trees and tree heights on the plan.
b) North Riverside Commercial Builders--43 North Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.08
Block 3 Lot 79)--Application for amended site plan approval for rear patio dining.
PRESENT: Ms. Julie Evans, architect, Mr. Ronny Napolitani, representing Tavern and Tavern II
Ms. Evans, shared the revised site plans of the new outdoor patio seating with new ramps and
exiting to the alleyways which allows for proper turning at the top of ramp as well as sufficient
passageway to the north of the ramp. The fire stairs for the apartments have been relocated,
and there is a new exit door from the warming kitchen.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and
th motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes
AYE, Ghegan ABSENT)
Chairman Luntz opened the meeting to public comments.
Mr. John McKeon, 25 Prospect, thanked Mr. Napolitani for the changes for increased
accessibility and egress from the rear patios. He stated the changes made the backyard a safer
place to dine and he thought Mr. Napolitani had done a very nice job.
Ms. Nancy Heppner, 9 Bank street, stated that she was excited about the project and had no
objections, but was curious about the number of seats and how that might impact parking. Mr.
Napolitani stated that in good weather people like to sit outside but a lot of people park on the
opposite side of the highway near the river and from Half Moon Bay and walk to the restaurant.
Ms. Debi Braddock, 9 Young Avenue, stated her support for this woman-owned business (Ms.
DePalma is the owner), and had heard many positive comments for the outside dining. She

4

asked if the project met code without the extra emergency gate, and the Village Engineer stated
it met code.
There being no further comments from the public, Chairman Luntz entertained a motion to close
the public hearing.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer,
and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer
AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT).
There was some discussion amongst the Planning Board members whether an emergency gate
at the north end of the patio should be included in the approval. The Planning Board reached a
consensus that since there had been sufficient improvements to the fire exits to meet all fire
codes and the approval of the fire chief, an additional emergency egress was not required.
However, the Planning Board asked that the applicant use good faith efforts to discuss the
installation of an emergency gate with the neighbor at the north end, but if for some reason, the
gate is not an option, the amended site plan approval will not be invalidated. The applicant’s
attorney, Mr. Casey Hilpert, agreed that this was satisfactory.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approved the amended site plan with the additional
condition as noted, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0
(ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan, ABSENT )
4. REFERRALS
a) Regan Development Corporation (contract vendee) – 41-51 Maple Street (aka “Katz
Property”) – Referral from Village Board for review of Special Permit application for a
multifamily residential development consisting of 33 apartments within two 2-story
buildings.
Present: Mr. Aaron Werner, Mr. Alex Auld, Mr. Jamie Easton, P.E.
Mr. Aaron Werner, of ARKF, environmental consultant, noted that a site walk had been
conducted on March 16, 2021 with the Planning Board. He observed that there are no
wetlands/ watercourse, and there are no visual impacts. Mr. Auld and Mr. Easton were present
to discuss traffic concerns, and answer any questions about this development.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board’s charge is to review the criteria for a
recommendation to the Village Board so that the Village Board can make a determination about
SEQR and conditions of the special permit.
The Planning Board also gives its consent for the Village Board to be Lead Agency for the
proposed project for the purposes of SEQR.

5

The Planning Board discussed and determined that the following objectives, as stipulated in
§230-58, will be achieved by this applicant.
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The proposed project is accessible to fire and police protection because a new entrance
and access driveway will be provided, there exists a hydrant nearby, and a fire and
a police station is in the vicinity of the proposed building. The proposed building will have
a sprinkler system and fire alarms as required by the Building Code.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the
orderly development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of
adjacent properties in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The Planning Board supports the idea of affordable housing in the village and agreed
that the proposed 33-unit residential building, the majority of which would be
affordable housing is a good use of this property. The development is ideally located
across the street from a shopping center, with pedestrian access nearby, and is close to
the train station and bus stop directly in front of the property. It was noted that
rezoning of this area envisioned a development similar to what is being proposed, and
that the proposed size is smaller than what is actually allowed, and the character is
consistent with the zoning district. The FAR is less than the maximum FAR required.
C. The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood
and of the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into
particular account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of
operations involved in or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its
relation to access street.
The Planning Board identified several items of concern regarding traffic that they
recommend the Village Board take into consideration: traffic patterns on the Maple
Street side and the intersection of Municipal Place and Maple Street, the location of the
development’s driveway for ingress and egress, traffic calming measures such as
additional signage for crosswalks, and sidewalk accessibility for pedestrians and school
age children.
The Planning Board strongly recommends that the village install a sidewalk
from the proposed apartment complex along Maple Street to Wells Avenue
but not to Olcott, to accommodate the school-age children walking to the elementary,
middle and high schools. The Planning Board also discussed the location of the school
bus stop and recommends that this be further examined.
In addition, the Planning Board would like to see the village install sidewalks along
Municipal Place to South Riverside Avenue so that there is access to both shopping

6

centers in the vicinity (Van Wyck Shopping Center and Croton Commons) and the River
Walk and parks along the Hudson River.
The Planning Board acknowledged that a traffic study is in the process of being
conducted by the developer and that coordination with the New York State Department
of Transportation will be necessary.
The Planning Board also discussed parking requirements on-site, and noted that on
street parking was limited in this location of the village. Although it was acknowledged
that Westchester County Planning Department had recommended fewer parking spaces
on-site, the Planning Board expressed some concerns about parking spilling over to
Wells Avenue or on the shopping center parking lot and that the current 61 off-street
parking spaces be increased by a few spots where feasible.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and
height of walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with
adjacent land and buildings and their appropriate development.
The Planning Board is satisfied with the location, nature and height of the buildings (two
stories instead of three), and noted that the height of walls and fences can be reviewed
in greater detail during the site plan approval process. The Planning Board again noted
that the rezoning of this area envisioned a project such as is being proposed.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board agreed that inherent in the proposal is a buffer zone of 50 feet on
the property lines that abut the residential zones and therefore preserves the
environmental assets of the site in the buffer area. A Phase 1A study of the area, having
been identified as an area sensitive for archaeology, will be completed.
Therefore, the Planning Board members present unanimously recommend the Village Board
granting a special permit, subject to the recommendations noted in this memo, for the
proposed 33-unit affordable housing development at 41-51 Maple Street.
Mr. Amos Bloomberg, member of Bike/Ped committee, and attending the meeting, stated he
wanted to thank the Planning Board for its discussion about sidewalks in this part of the village,
and having access to all the shopping centers.
Chairman Luntz noted that the Planning Board is aligned with the Bicycle/Pedestrian Committee
and Village Board’s goals and that this is a unique opportunity to lay the foundation for such
plans to be implemented in the future.

7

5. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr Kauderer made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of March 9, 2021, as
amended, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 to 0, all in favor. (ROLL
CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT).
6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 11:03
p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

8

