Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
On Wednesday, February 10, 2021
Via Zoom Video Conference
Present: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
James Tuman
Alex Morales
Mark Aarons
Doug Olcott
Also Present: Ronald Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order: 8:02 p.m.
Chairman Wagner called the meeting of the Zoning board of Appeals on February 10, 2021 to
order.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) DeSisto, Silvio & Kristina -- 38 Wells Avenue -- Located in the RA-5 One-Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
as Section 78.8 Block 7 Lot 39. Request for total side yard and story variances from
Section 230-33(A) for a proposed addition to an existing non-conforming three-story
house.
The homeowners explained that with two children, more space in the house was desirable. The
current house is an existing three story house (due to where the garage is), and they are
extending the house forward by adding to the front of the house. They are building a new twocar garage under the new structure. They are requesting a variance of 1.09 ft. total side yard
and are also requesting a ½ story variance for the existing third story as well as ½ story
variance for the proposed addition.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments from the public, the
public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

The Zoning Board of Appeals noted that the applicant had provided a number of support letters
from neighboring properties for the proposed addition, but had not seen any letters from the
neighbors directly on either side of the applicants. Ms. DeSisto stated that the neighbors on the
left were new and they had not yet met them, and they have not seen the other neighbor
recently. She stated that the addition is in line with the neighbor on the right, but will not go

further than the neighbor’s house. There were no members of the public present at the
meeting.
The Zoning Board members noted that the proposed addition was not large (est. 700 ft) and the
proposed total square footage (2100 sq. ft) was similar to another house on the street (44 Wells)
and therefore not out of character with other houses in the neighborhood.
Therefore, the Zoning Board of Appeals members agreed that there will be no undesirable
change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board members agreed that if the applicants want a garage,the front of the house is
the only location available. The back of the property slopes and therefore, prohibits the
construction from the rear.
The Zoning Board agreed that any other location would not be as aesthetically pleasing nor
would they be able to have a garage that was functional.
3. The requested 1.09 total yard variance is not substantial, however the ½ story variance
for the proposed addition is substantial.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the total side yard variance request of 1.09 ft was not
substantial and the variance request was created by the lot narrowing in the rear. After some
discussion, the Zoning Board members agreed that the expansion of the third story (½ story
variance) was substantial but the three stories already were existing and the proposed addition
would not be as aesthetically pleasing nor functional without the ½ story addition.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board of Appeals members agreed that the proposed variance will not have an
adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood.
Given the topology of the site, with the sloped backyard and the narrowness of the property, the
front location for the proposed addition has the least impact.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
The Zoning Board agreed that the alleged difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Morales made a motion to grant a story (½ story) variance for the existing 3-story
residence and the 1.06 total side yard and story (½ story) variances for the proposed addition,
seconded by Mr. Olcott and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0. The condition not to
expand the third story any further was added. (ROLL CALL: Wagner AYE, Tuman AYE,
Morales AYE, Aarons AYE, Olcott AYE)

b) 1360 Albany Post road Corp -- 1360 Albany Post Road -- Located in the Limited
Office O-1 District and Northern Gateway Overlay District and designated on the Tax
Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.10 Block2 Lots 12 and 13.
Request for a waiver under Village Zoning Code Section 193 from the requirement to
install a fire sprinkler system in the new commercial building which is required by Section
193-1 and 193-6 of the Village Code.
Mr. Hernandez, architect for the applicant, Ms. Ines Silva-Pereira, co-owner, and Mr. Robert
Corke, attorney, all present at the Zoom conference.
Mr. Hernandez stated that the applicant had already received a variance from the ZBA for the
corner of the building. He pointed out that because the original building was in poor condition
and required extra work including a new foundation, the requirement for a fire suppression
system was triggered.
The estimated cost for the sprinkler system was $125,000 and even though water is available
across the street, the applicant would need NYSDOT approval to cut through the road. The
other reasons they are asking a waiver from the fire sprinkler requirement are: 1) that the
property is isolated at night, 2) the nearest house is 100 ft. away, 3) fire and life safety rules
are in place 4) the stone and masonry items in the storage room /showroom are nocombustible 5) there is access for a fire truck in case of fire, and 6) and the fire suppression
system is required by the Village Code, not the state code.
The Zoning Board questioned the expense of the proposed fire suppression system, asked
about alternatives to a fire sprinkler system, and wanted a written opinion from the Fire
Department as to whether or not they recommended a waiver. The Assistant Village Engineer
noted that he had reached out to the Fire Chief who did not recommend a waiver.
The Zoning Board also requested that the applicant return with two or three written quotes from
fire sprinkler companies to identify the true costs of a sprinkler system, as well as present
alternatives or mitigations to not installing a fire sprinkler system.
Mr. Hernandez stated that he will gather the requested information as well as speak with the
Fire Department and see if there are some mitigation efforts.
Chairman Wagner stated she will not open the public hearing at this time in order to give the
applicant a chance to gather the information.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes of the ZBA January 13, 2021 minutes,
seconded by Mr. Morales, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0 with Mr. Aarons and Mr.
Olcott abstaining.

Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the ZBA minutes of December 9, 2020, as
amended, seconded by Mr. Tuman, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 with Mr. Morales
abstaining.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

