MINUTES – Croton Sustainability Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Apr. 25, 2021 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Brian Pugh

Absent:
Jon Katz

Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher
Bernie Yozwiak
Dan Columbini

[Bracketed] text meand subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: none
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants
On Thursday (4/22), we got 200 points by showing we had done over 2 years of benchmarking,
bringing us to 4,300 points. To seek 200 more points, committee members personally signed-up
for the Grid Rewards demand response program, and through a variety of their contacts,
eblasts, Facebook, Gazette LTE, etc., informed many Croton residents of the option. Last
Friday (4/23), SW told us we exceeded the minimum of 10 sign-ups. We will get confirmation
this Monday, getting us to 4,500 points. [By 4/29/21, we had over 30 sign-ups.]
Next step: push Community Solar (CS) 2.0. We need at least 10 sign-ups to get 200 more
points. People having solar panels cannot enroll. Committee members without panels were
asked to sign up for CS 2.0 ASAP at https://ecogyenergy.com/croton-cs
Via negotiation with Ecogy, its CS 2.0 contract no longer requires access to bank (i.e., ACH)
information, or a second electric bill. The ~10% CS discount would start once consolidated
billing takes effect this summer. Ecogy’s next CS system (at the Shrub Oak Mall in Yorktown)
will come online at about the same time.
From last year’s DPW project, we have a list of 29 people who previously wanted to sign up but,
for various reasons, did not. All will be contacted in the coming week to now do so. Joel and
Lindsay produced the Village web page blurb for this step, which should be posted by the end
of the coming week. Lindsay will send a LTE to the Gazette announcing the opportunity.
The final step to get to (exactly) 5,000 points will happen after June 1 (start of new fiscal year),
when the Village buys its 3rd EV (another parking enforcement plug-in hybrid). Brian agreed to
ensure that Janine King expedites that purchase as soon as possible thereafter. While the
Village will also be purchasing a hybrid police car, points are only given for plug-in EVs.
- EV/EVSE
See above for the purchase of the Village’s next EV.
Regarding EV school buses, they are featured in four propositions on the May 18 school budget
ballot. To secure absentee ballots, Joel reported that there will not be a general mailing of
absentee ballots. You have to apply for one. Get an application for one at:
1

https://www.chufsd.org/site/handlers/filedownload.ashx?moduleinstanceid=5181&dataid=4720&
FileName=absentee-ballot-application-and-instructions-english.pdf
Requests for absentee ballots must be submitted at least seven days before the vote/election
(i.e., by May 11, 2021) if the ballot will be mailed to the voter, and by the day before the
vote/election (i.e., May 17, 2021) if the ballot will be personally picked up by the voter.
Absentee ballots must be received by the district clerk by 5:00 p.m. on the day of the election in
order to be counted. Last year there was a drop box at the school headquarters, but there was
no mention of one in the info provided. According to the application for absentee ballots, you
must have an excuse, like being out of town or having some medical problem, to receive one.
Avoiding COVID is listed as an OK excuse.
Joel summarized the bus propositions: prop 1 authorizes the school to buy two mini-buses and
a charger. They may be either fossil fueled or (if other props pass) EVs. If prop 2 passes, a fullsize (66 passengers) EV may be purchased. If Prop. 3 and/or also 4 pass, one or two EV minibuses 20-30 passengers) may be bought. But if Prop. 1 fails, no buses of any kind get bought. If
prop 1passes and 2, 3, and 4 fail, only two fossil-fueled mini- buses get bought.
The ballot also asks for a vote on the school’s pending Energy Performance Contract (EPC)
with Honeywell. An EPC is a self-funding venture to upgrade lighting and HVAC, and install
some solar panels on each of the three schools’ rooftops.
- Washington Engine firehouse
From Village staff and Ecogy, we learned:
- When its roof was replaced in 2019, polyisocyanurate foam board insulation (R=~8.5) was
added. It is unclear if doing so brought the level up to R30, which is the present code. If it did
not, there may be an issue regarding code compliance, and who signed off on it.
- Its underground oil tank was installed when heating was converted to oil in the 1980s.
According to a Village staff person, it has not been routinely tested for leaks. While there’s no
evidence of leakage, tanks approaching 40 years are considered a leak risk.
- Ecogy proposed a 22 kWp combination solar rooftop and battery system. The Village
would have to kick in ~$40K as part of a deal that would pay us only ~$1.3K per year. Ecogy’s
pricing included Tesla Powerwalls for demand management. Unfortunately, its analysis used
the presently spikey load profile due to poor dispatching of the heat pumps. Once fixed, the
project would become financially unviable. Instead buying the project would cost us ~$65K. In
that scenario, the firehouse would use all of its ~27,000 kWh/yr, presently worth ~$4.6K/yr.
Bottom line: we will await status on our NYSERDA grants (i.e., by late June or July) before
pursuing further action on the firehouse’s roof code compliance, heat pumps, or solar options.
- HPWH
Regarding a $ incentive for LMI participation, Village staff pushed back, saying that running
NYSERDA grant funds through SW to do so was not acceptable (despite NYSERDA being OK
2

with it). As a result, some project details may need to be revised, e.g., no extra $ incentive for
anybody, based on either income or early involvement.
The submission of a Letter-of-Intent (i.e., initial step before sending a grant proposal) for a
HPWH project to the Westchester Community Trust (WCT) was held up due to inclusion of a $
incentive to LMIs. Based on Brian’s assessment of the situation, that option will be “tabled”.
However, he liked Joel’s idea that something about environmental justice in the State’s CLCPA
law may be worth pursuing. Brian agreed to look into that option with State officials.
Because of the time sensitivity with gathering points essential for NYSERDA grants,
development of the HPWH project will resume in late May or early June.
- Solar Projects
See above for the Washington Engine firehouse solar rooftop status.
We await Ecogy’s proposals on canopies over the north and south parking areas at the
Muni Building (total of ~125 kWp) and the front parking area at the DPW building (~197 kWp).
On the Croton Landing canopy job, Joel reported that on 4/12/21 Assblys. Sandy Galef and
Carrie Woerner (Saratoga Springs) submitted an Assembly version (A.6838) of S.2995, Sen.
Harckham’s bill to exempt parking lots at parks from an existing ban on such uses of park land.
Both bills are now before their respective legislative committees. Joel submitted comments on
behalf of our committee. All of the following were asked to support passage of the bills:
- League of Women Voters
- League of Conservation Voters
- New Yorkers for Clean Power
- Sierra Club Atlantic Chapter
- Sustainable Westchester
- Rockland Goes Green
- CURE 100 (a/k/a Croton100)
- Mothers Out Front
- Climate Reality Project (local chapter)
- Riverkeeper
- Care For Creation (C4C) Ministry
Using research performed by our interns, ~45 CSC/CEC coordinators across the State were
also asked to push their legislators to support passage.
- Reports
Niall reviewed using biodiesel ((i.e., #2 oil mixed with deglycerized soybean oil) in the Village’s
many trucks and the two Village buildings that use fuel oil for heat (DPW and Washington
firehouse). Together, the buildings burn ~9,000 gallons per year. Our diesel trucks consume
~29,000 gal/yr. Using B10 in all of them would slightly (~7%) reduce the GHG from burning
standard diesel, and cut our municipal GHG footprint by almost 2% (more than occurred from
our LED lighting upgrade). Using B10 cuts GHG at a cost of ~$100/MT. This would be an
interim step until EV trucks become available and an alternative heating system for DPW
3

became feasible. Due to DPW’s location above our aquifer, a GSHP is not. Niall spoke with Con
Ed on its truck fuels. It uses B20 or B5, depending on the season. His report is attached.
- Communications
Three unrelated requests (two surveys, one interview) were received from grad students (at
Colgate University, Hartwick College, and Hamilton College) regarding our experience securing
silver CSC status. Lindsay described our experiences to them.
At our request to push Grid Rewards, Patty Buchanan added a blog post at CURE 100 web
page supporting it. As mentioned on page 1, we also contacted and/or eblasted a variety of
individuals and local organizations asking them to enroll in that program.
- Recruitment/Outreach
Pursuant to creating an online chat room, our four interns did a great job assembling an email
address list for many CSC coordinators from certified municipalities.
- New business / other issues
Niall asked about the process to request Board support for a 3 rd community garden. Brian said
an email submitted as correspondence to the Board would be sufficient to get in on the agenda.
Date for our next meeting was set for May 23 to avoid the Memorial Day weekend.
---------Niall’s interim report on biodiesel options for Village trucks
I spoke with the automotive engineer in Con Ed and he was very helpful. They converted all their
vehicles 18 years ago. They use B20 for 9 to 10 months of the year and go down to B5 in the
winter months. They use soy-based biodiesel, not fat-based. Con Ed gets its fuel from Sprague in
Long Island, but they used to use Schildwachter in the Bronx. Schildwachter can deliver fuel for
us but I am waiting on a call from their specialist for more information.
He asked what model vehicles we used and how old they were. If they are 2010 and newer and
have Ford or Cummins engines, we should have no issues.
If the trucks have steel fuel tanks that are painted on the inside, they will have to be switched out
with aluminum tanks. Biodiesel acts like a detergent and strips the paint from the inside of fuel
tanks, which gums up the engines! Similarly, the biodiesel storage tanks cannot be painted on the
inside or we will get similar issues.
He suggested we get an engineering firm like High Point Engineering in Long Island to evaluate
the storage tanks and the vehicles to ensure everything will run smoothly. Lindsay will ask Frank
Balbi about the Village’s truck and storage tanks and their interior paint.
In a brief chat with Robison, it quoted a fixed one-year price of $2.36/gal for delivered B10.
Lindsay will determine the differential with the Village’s present pricing.

4

