Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, April 19, 2021 via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$113,751.35
$20,338.24
$3,634.51
$11,087.76
$7,302.50

3. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
4. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Letter from Kathleen Ferguson-Tusa, “Croton Historical Society” dated
March 30, 2021 thanking the Department of Public Works for their
assistance in helping them to relocate to a new space in the Municipal
Building.
b. Memo from Village Engineer Daniel O’Connor dated April 7, 2021
regarding a “Building Permit” extension request for the property
located at 38 Nordica Drive.
On motion by Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Gallelli the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request for a “Building Permit” extension for the property located at 38
Nordica Drive. Motion was approved with the following Roll Call Vote:
Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee
Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 19, 2021
Page 2

c. Memo from Village Engineer Daniel O’Connor dated April 8, 2021
regarding a “Building Permit” extension request for the property
located at 145 Benedict Blvd.
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Gallelli the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request for a “Building Permit” extension for the property located at
145 Benedict Blvd. Motion was approved with the following Roll Call
Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye,
Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
d.

Email from Jim Steinberg of the “Croton-Harmon Booster Club” dated
April 15, 2021 requesting permission to hang posters at “Firefighters
Field” for senior student athlete softball players.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request from the “Croton-Harmon Booster Club” to hang posters at
“Firefighters Field” for senior student athlete softball players. Motion
was approved with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye,
Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor
Pugh Aye.
e. Email from Marie Considine, Executive Director of “NAMI Westchester”,
dated April 15, 2021 requesting permission to display ribbons in
recognition of “Mental Health Awareness Month” as well as permission
to display a banner in a location agreeable to the Village.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Gallelli the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request from “NAMI Westchester”, to hang ribbons in the Village and to
display a banner on the fence at Senasqua Park or by the Municipal
Building in conjunction with “Mental Health Awareness Month”. Motion
was approved with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye,
Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor
Pugh Aye.
f. Draft of a Letter to Governor Andrew Cuomo, Senator Peter Harckham
and Assemblywoman Sandy Galef dated April 19, 2021 regarding the
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 19, 2021
Page 3

“Croton Gorge Unique Area”. To view the letter, you may click on the
following link:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/
21_04_19_CrotonRiverLetterDRAFT.pdf
g. Letter from “New York State of Health” regarding the “American
Rescue Plan” highlighting changes in tax credits for those who buy a
health plan from New York State Health. To view the letter, you may
click on the following link:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/
Partner_Outreach_Letter_American_Rescue_Plan.pdf
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –
Kate Mamone states in her email that she is concerned about the Public
Hearing regarding amending Section 230-44, entitled “Signs”.
Village Manager King explained that in the past the Village only allowed
signs on residential properties on a temporary basis; this new provision
removes the time limit for small lawn signs on residential property.
Matthew Rubenstein, 105 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson addressed
his concerns regarding the “Croton Gorge Unique Area” and made the
following comments/suggestions: (1) institute a day permit for the
“Croton Gorge Unique Area” on the opposite side of the river shore; this
was proposed by the “DEC” as a solution in June 2019 but they have not
moved forward on it; (2) institute resident only parking and to press
Assemblywoman Galef and Senator Harckham to move this through the
State Assembly; (3) endorses the funding for the “Stewardship Program”
as well as allowing them the discretion to contact legal authorities when
needed; and (4) increase the number of “Park Rangers” to help enforce
rules.
6. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #56 of 2021

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 19, 2021
Page 4

On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program was
approved by referendum in 2003; and
WHEREAS Article 11-A of the New York State General Municipal Law requires that
the list of Fire Department members indicating those who earned a year of service
credit during the calendar year, those that did not earn a year of credit, and those
who waived participation must be certified under oath by the Fire Department; and
WHEREAS once certified, this list must be approved by the Village Board and posted
for 30 days,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the list for 2020 and authorizes its posting for 30 days.
Resolution #57 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Regan Development Corporation for a multi-unit residential building on the
parcel located at 41-51 Maple Street, and
WHEREAS on March 1, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent to
serve as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its
intent to all involved agencies, and
WHEREAS on April 5, 2021, the Village Board declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received memorandums back from the Village
Planning Board, Westchester County Planning Board and Waterfront Advisory
Committee in connection with the proposed action,
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 19, 2021
Page 5

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, May 3, 2021 at 6 p.m. to consider the
special permit application from Regan Development Corporation for a proposed
multi-residential building at 41-51 Maple Street, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #58 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning
Chapter of the Village Code to modify provisions related to signage in the residential
zoning districts of the Village, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 3 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on April 5, 2021, the Village Board referred the draft law to the Village
Planning Board, Westchester County Planning Board and Waterfront Advisory
Committee as required by law, and
WHEREAS
action,

each has submitted a memorandum in connection with the proposed

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, May 17, 2021 at 6 p.m. to consider the
adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2021 to amend Section 230-44, Signs, of
the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code to modify provisions related to signage in
residential zoning districts, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 19, 2021
Page 6

7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS – none
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes of the Special Meeting held on March 29,
2021 was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on April 5,
2021 was made by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on April 12,
2021 was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9. REPORTS:
Trustee Gallelli advised of a new program from Con-Edison called “Grid
Rewards”, the program will allow Con-Edison to lighten the electric load
during high usage times; those who sign up for the program would get an
alert when Con-Edison needs to save on electricity asking participants to
cut down on their electricity use between certain hours. Trustee Gallelli
stated that even if someone signs up for the program, they are not
obligated to participate but for those that sign up, they would be eligible
for a credit that would be allocated to their bill in the Fall of that year; this
program will also add to Croton’s ability to qualify for State money for
energy programs; more information on the program can be found on the
Village’s Web Site, under “News” and the “Sustainability Committee’s”
page. See Link below:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sustainability-committee/news/getpaid-cut-your-electric-load
Trustee Horowitz advised that the “Diversity and Inclusion Committee” will
be holding another community discussion this Thursday from 7-8:30pm on
“The History of Race”, the “Conservation Advisory Council’s” grant
application with the “DEC” for a program called “Trees for Tribs” was
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 19, 2021
Page 7

accepted and the Village will be receiving sixty saplings that will be
planted at “Black Rock Park” on May 22nd.
Trustee Murtaugh thanked Village Manager King for her guidance on the
Budget as well as the Department Heads and staff for creating a very tight
Budget; the taking of an extra $59,000 from the “Fund Balance” is
something that he supports and shows that we are working very hard to
stay under the “Tax Cap”.
Trustee Simon advised that on April 7th he and Deputy Mayor Gallelli
hosted a conversation with “Upper Village” businesses on the issues of
parking and outdoor dining, they have continued discussions individually
and will be regathering for another meeting to define some of the ideas
that were discussed; he and Deputy Mayor Gallelli also had the pleasure
to attend a ribbon cutting last Saturday for a new “Upper Village” business
called “Double Docs”; last week he sat in on a Webinar held by the “New
York Conference of Mayors” on the new Marijuana Legislation and thanked
them for all their efforts in representing our interests in Albany. Trustee
Simon thanked the Planning Board, Zoning Board and the Waterfront
Advisory Committee for all their hard work and hours spent working on the
many projects before them.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Board appreciates the dedication, diligence
and ingenuity on the part of the staff with all that has been done to
reduce expenditures in this new Budget, the additional appropriation of
“Fund Balance” is something that we hope not to have to repeat, and we
will work diligently to bring in new revenue sources in the coming months.
Mayor Pugh stated that the “Recreation Advisory Committee” has
submitted some suggestions on how to increase revenues from the parks
and we have also requested them to come up with recommendations on
“Dog Park” hours.
Mayor Pugh made the following appointments to the “Police Advisory
Committee”:
Earl De Pass
Paige Jones
Teri Lukin
Alex Morales

Term ends December 2022
Term ends December 2021
Term ends December 2021
Term ends December 2023
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 19, 2021
Page 8

Carlton Sargeant
Aliyah Simpson
Carolyn Whiting
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Gallelli

Term ends December 2023
Term ends December 2022
Term ends December 2022
Board Liaison
Board Liaison

Trustee Bullock advised that she mailed out letters to those residents who
have not paid their Village taxes alerting them that the Village will be holding
a “Tax Lien” sale on May 4, 2021.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:55pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

8

