Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
March 17, 2021
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Matthew Arnold,
Amos Bloomberg, Daniel Castner, Robert Olsson,
Ex officio: Mayor Brian Pugh, Trustee Len Simon, Board of Education Member Josh
Diamond, Croton Police Chief John Nikitopoulos, DPW Superintendent Frank Balbi
1. Approved Feb. 17 Meeting Minutes
2. Croton Point Avenue Project
a. Committee members thanked DPW Superintendent Balbi for the department’s
work on the CPA project, recognizing that it was endorsed and shaped by input
from the Bike-Ped Committee;
b. Members asked if village could add “bike boxes” at CPA and Veterans Plaza
and CPA and South Riverside Avenue that would let left-turning bikes stand in
front of a line of cars when lights are red; also asked for sharrows and other
indications to show how bikes should proceed into (and out of) Metro-North
parking lot, encouraging them to stay on Veterans Plaza rather than onto
shared bike-ped path on western side.
c. Superintendent Balbi agreed that bike boxes and directional markings would be
a good idea and said he would talk to state DOT about what could be done.
3. SLOW DOWN CROTON: Do Your Part campaign update:
a. Trustee Len Simon reported that Rotary has agreed to donate $500 to defray
the costs of the campaign
b. Committee members agreed to set the budget based on the amount of
contributions, but that it will not likely exceed $1,000
c. Robert got quotes for printing; 100 18x24-inch lawn signs with wire stands
(double-sided, two-color) will cost $475; 250 pieces: 1012.50; 500 post cards
(4.25x5.5-inch, semi-gloss, coated 1 side color; 1 side b&w): $99 plus shipping.
Two banners would likely cost $500.
d. Committee decided 100 signs would be sufficient.
e. Chief Nikitopoulos said he had some ideas for possible funding; Robert said he
would again approach the Lions Club
4. Snow plowing/snow shoveling recommendations
a. Committee members expressed concerns with village plows piling snow onto
sidewalks at corners and homeowners who fail to shovel their walks, as well as
dog walkers who let their dogs urinate on snow banks on either side of a
shoveled walk. After some discussion about what lack of others options village

plows have available, members decided to reinforce model shoveling
techniques on social media.
5. Katz Property
a. Committee members discussed ideas for recommendations to the Planning
Board for the Katz property (Municipal Place and Maple Street/Route 129) and
agreed to the following:
i.
Moving existing crosswalk across Maple further north to meet the
driveway into development and driveway into Van Wyck Shopping
Center;
ii.
Extending proposed sidewalk in front of development along west side of
Maple northwards all the way to Wells Street and also around the
corner and westwards all the way to South Riverside;
iii.
Reduce the turning radius at vehicle entrance to complex’s parking lot
to prompt drivers to slow down;
iv.
Provide sidewalks and place of refuge at Maple and Municipal Place to
improve access between proposed parklet at that corner and Van Wyck.
v.
Dan Castner volunteered to draft a letter to the Planning Board and
circulate by email before sending off.
6. Recognition of Trustee Habib’s Passing
a. Trustee Simon praised the late Trustee John Habib as a bicycle enthusiast and
supporter of safe streets who will be greatly missed
7. Adjournment

