Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
April 21, 2021
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Matthew Arnold,
Amos Bloomberg, Robert Olsson, Edward Hadad
Ex officio: Mayor Brian Pugh, Trustee Len Simon, BOE Member Josh Diamond
1. MEETING MINUTES - Approved March 17, 2021 Meeting Minutes
2. REPORTS

A. The BPC made a presentation to Board of Trustees on Slow Down Croton and
Bike-Ped Master Plan. The Board of Trustees approved both measures. They will take
up Complete Streets at a later date
B. Letter to Gazette on Master Plan - Marc drafted Master plan letter to be submitted
C. Meeting with CHUFSD administrators on Slow Down Croton - Matthew has spoken
with them, they are very excited to take part and will get back to him with some ideas to
take forward. Possibly take kids on a walk, practice crossing streets etc. for younger
kids. For high school kids, perhaps some driving instruction.
D. Katz Property recommendations to Croton Planning Board - Dan and Amos sent
suggestions to Planning Board
3. SLOW DOWN CROTON

A. Sign Update - Robert Olsson talked with Tom Smith, who submitted a new design,
with new color and vertical orientation.
B. Postcard Design - General discussion on possibly using stickers instead of
postcards, possibly incorporating QR codes to take readers to a website, or create
bookmarks or magnets. The stickers could have factoids on that back. Marc Albrecht
created a spreadsheet with various facts. Need to determine the top six facts. The list
can be distributed to the group to rank favorites.
C. Budget Update - 500 postcards would cost about $100. 500 stickers would cost $255
dollars. The Rotary donation will be used to cover the first run of lawn signs. Additional
funding/donations would be necessary for postcards/stickers. Some members offered to
personally contribute. Others felt this could set an undesirable precedent. It was
decided to table the issue for now.

D. Sponsors and Partners
1. Sponsors (Give financial/tangible support): Village, CPD, CHUFSD, Rotary
2. Partners (Give endorsement, contributions of energy/effort): Mothers Out
Front, Croton Business Council - (Toni Senical likes the idea and is will willing to
spread the word)
3. Other Possibilities: Croton Caring Committee, Croton 100 - No word from Liza
McCarthy yet. Robert Olsson will reach out to a connection with the Boy
Scouts/Cub Scouts
E. Additional Components of Campaign
1. School District Workshops
a. Walking to School for CET (fall) - Interested in relaunching.
b. Bicycle Rodeo for PVC (fall)
c. Driving Reminders for CHHS (fall)
d. Safety Video for all schools? - Principal Plotkin suggested possible videos of
teachers doing tips
e. Walking School Bus - Josh Diamond reiterated that too many parents are
dropping their kids off at school, this should certainly be a component. He also
hoped the electric bus passes the vote, which would create and a cleaner and
better way to get to school
2. Bike Path to PVC? - This might be something that could be a part of the
campaign
3. Bike Sharrows on Emerson, Thompson? Or crosswalks on benedict - could all be
part of the campaign, on village part? These topics need to be pursued.
4. CPD - Chief will think about their part in the campaign
5. Village Employees - TBD
6. Other ideas include creating t-shirts and using the money to fund other collateral.
Mayor Pugh would look into issue. Perhaps for receiving a sign or post card, one
must take a pledge, in a fun way, “I pledge to obey the rules of the road.”
F. Launch Possibilities - since there is no Summerfest this year, we could look to
piggyback on another outdoor activity or do something on our own. ShopRite or Little
League games were suggested. Ed Hadad suggested congregating on the median of
Benedict Blvd to attract attention. We will brainstorm other ideas for a possible launch
on Saturday, May 22. We need the signs available. Amos Bloomberg agreed to facilitate
the social media campaign and include other media outlets. We should let our sponsors
also know of any plans to encourage participation.

