Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
May 19, 2021
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Matthew Arnold,
Amos Bloomberg, Robert Olsson, Edward Hadad, Erik Ferguson, Dan Castner
Ex officio: Trustee Len Simon

I. Approval of April 2021 Minutes
II. SLOW DOWN CROTON: Do Your Part campaign update
A. Partner Update
1. School District: Matthew Schuerman reports that Michael Plotkin is
developing events that can become part of the Slow Down Croton
campaign, but none are solid enough to be mentioned in the press
release. Possible components include walking kids to the Municipal
parking lot and then walking back to school with instructions, or
health class and walking events - perhaps with a curriculum
component. Students could also be assigned to observe a problem
area, make observations, and come up with possible solutions.
There would be different ideas for different grades, but they would
not take the form of simple lectures.
2. Croton 100 & Croton Caring Committee: Erik Ferguson has no
response on a commitment yet. Robert Olsson believes the Boy
Scouts are interested. Another possible partner would be the
Croton Senior Citizen club. Ann Gallelli meets with them often.
B. Status of Lawn Signs: Robert Olsson states signs should be delivered this
Friday, 5/21, but no guarantee.
C. Planning for Launch Event: With no guarantee of signs, we will delay the
launch to Saturday May 29. There are likely no sports or competing
events. Ed Hadad will coordinate. The Launch event will take place at
10AM in Duck Pond Park across from the diner. After a short ceremony,
the group will stand alongside S. Riverside and display signs. Signs will be
available to attendees, with the remainder going to the police station
where members of the community can pick them up.

D. Discussion of Press Release The group reviewed. We need a URL from
Bryan Healey to post on the Village website. Matthew will check with him.
E. Assignments for Launch, Publicity, etc.
● Ed to get signs from Robert
● Matthew will bring his megaphone
● All members are encouraged to attend and recruit attendees
● Ed will check with Mayor Brian Pugh’s availability
● Matthew will reach out to the Rotary Club for a speaker
● Ed will write to Superintendent O'Connell and Principal Plotkin to
encourage attendance
● Matthew will verify permission for the event with Bryan Healey
● Amos to reach out to news organizations, and social media Matthew is a member of Croton Community Page and Croton Point
and can post there
● Matt Arnold will serve as photographer
F. Foundations: Matthew suggested other sources of funding could be local
foundations in Westchester. In the near future, the Committee should revisit
other funding options.
III. NEW BUSINESS
A. Bike Share Possibility with Neighboring Communities - Matthew will
coordinate with Mayor Pugh about the possibility to partner with other
communities for a bike share project. Members suggested pedal assist
bikes would be necessary, locations could include the Riverwalk, train
station, Vassalo, Upper Village etc.
B. Setting Priorities for New Sidewalks. Trustee Len Simon believes there is
a good chance of a federal infrastructure bill to pass which could translate
to funds that Croton could use towards sidewalks. He would like the BPC
to review the sidewalk inventory/deficiency list already created, make
updates, and then set a meeting with DPW to start identifying priorities
and cost estimates. See list and map previously created by Dan Castner:
Dan’s list and map.

