PLANNING BOARD MEETING MINUTES
VIA ZOOM VIDEO CONFERENCE
April 13, 2021
PRESENT:

Chairman Robert Luntz
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
Bruce Kauderer
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison Alternate
Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney
1. Call to Order
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of April 13, 2021 to order at 7:01 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Jaeger, Andrew (contract vendee)--123 North Riverside Avenue (Section 67.20
Block 4 Lot 10.01)-- Application for Minor site plan approval and steep slopes
permit for construction of new single-family dwelling.
Present: Andrew Jaeger, applicant; Ed Vergano, P.E.
Mr. Jaeger stated that Fire Chief Dinkler of the Croton Fire Department had sent a letter (on file)
that stated that he was satisfied with the fire safety measures being taken for the proposed
house. The Planning Board members stated that Chief Dinkler’s response satisfactorily
answered any questions that the Planning Board had discussed in prior meetings.
The Planning Board also reviewed the proposed landscape plan which includes evergreen trees
(green giant arborvitae, and tricolor dappled willow shrubs) for screening purposes. The
Planning Board agreed that the proposed trees would provide adequate screening from the
neighbors.
Chairman Luntz allowed brief comments from the public, although the public hearing had been
closed on the March 23, 2021 meeting.
Mr. John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, stated he was in absolute opposition to the proposed
plan. He repeated his questions about water flow to the highway and fire suppression methods.
Mrs. Christine Corrado, 133 North Riverside Avenue, inquired about the retaining wall and
drainage since her house experiences water issues. Chairman Luntz summarized the
discussion on the details of the proposed retaining wall, catch basins, and pointed out that the

water is being redirected in order to improve drainage flow. Chairman Luntz stated that the
proposed drainage plan should result in an improvement in her situation.
The Planning Board reviewed the draft resolution and added the following conditions:
1. That a maintenance and inspection schedule be provided for the private hydrant and
submitted as part of the application and on record at Village Hall.
2. That, the owner will maintain the driveway including snow removal with a dump truck.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to accept the resolution, with the additional conditions,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan had
technical problems and was not available for the vote). (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE,
Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT).
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) 99 Cleveland Drive LLC -- 99 Cleveland Drive (Sec. 79.9 Block 2 Lot 47.01) -Application for Minor Site Plan approval and Steep Slopes Permit for new single-family
dwelling.
PRESENT: Barnard Doran, owner and applicant; Mr. Tim Cronin, P.E., Cronin Engineering
Mr. Cronin, P.E., explained that the relatively small lot originally was a lot in the Harmon
subdivision. Mr. Doran, owner and builder, explained that there had been a lot line alteration by
the neighbor to the south who owned the property; the lot was sold after the lot line alteration.
The proposed house has a deck on the back and the driveway will be off of the Cleveland Drive
side. Mr. Doran believes this modest size house will fit in with the character of the
neighborhood. He described the colors and materials of the proposed house and stated it would
be similar in color and materials to the house he had built on Hamilton Avenue. Chairman
Luntz noted that he had visited the site and it appeared to be similar in layout to a neighbor’s
house and looked like it would fit in well between the two neighboring houses.
There was some discussion about whether the removal of an existing tree on the lot was
necessary, but Mr. Cronin explained that the tree does not look as healthy (the image shown is
from 2013) when compared with a more current photo from January 2021 in which the tree is
leaning and appears to be thinning (possibly from blight). In addition, the proposed house
would be right under the branches of this tree.
Mr. Doran noted that there is a future solar site on the site plan. He stated that he had spoken
with the neighbors and offered to work with them anyway he could. He explained that he does
one house at a time and is on site every day. If neighbors had any questions, he could be
easily reached. The neighbors have expressed concerns about water runoff and he is
proposing a swale riprap and chain link fence to back up the silt fence to keep runoff from the
neighbors. Mr. Cronin noted that roof leaders, gutters and the grass swale will redirect runoff
into the Cultech catch basins.
2

The Village Engineer noted that a public hearing is optional for the steep slopes. The lowest
threshold number is being exceeded on this small lot. Chairman Luntz noted that the applicant
had provided an extensive response for the steep slopes analysis and believed they were
adequately and professional answered.
As there were neighbors waiting to participate, Chairman Luntz invited attendees to speak.
Mrs. Yurek, mother of Mr. Steve Yurek, 10 Olcott Avenue, asked the developer and the village
as to what they propose to do to prevent this increase in runoff.
Mr. Cronin stated that there is a substantial drainage infrastructure as part of the stormwater
management system which includes Cultech chambers and gravel, with catch basins, roof
leaders, gutters, and a silt fence around the disturbed area, all which should minimize water
runoff.
Mr. Shawn Sheridan, 41 Darby, stated that when it rains, the runoff comes to Darby Avenue too.
Mr. Doran stated that he has raised the drop curb for the driveway and the water should be
going into dry wells, and not into Olcott nor Darby.
The Village Engineer offered to meet with the neighbors to evaluate how to improve the water
drainage issues.
Mr. Stephen Yurek, 10 Olcott, expressed concerns about the water drainage and excavation
close to his house. He also was concerned about dump trucks and excavators and how
excavation can be done safely without affecting his house foundation. He stated that the house
seemed very large on what appears to be a small lot with a sharp slope. Chairman Luntz
pointed out that it is similar to a lot of Harmon houses.
When asked by Mr. Haynes how he was going to protect the bordering property from additional
runoff, Mr. Doran responded that he would run a silt fence around the border and back it up with
a berm of excess dirt. The Village Engineer explained how the calculations for steep slopes
were arrived at and that the applicant had provided a response addressing the sixteen criteria in
the village’s steep slope law.
Mr. Yurek asked if he could submit a steep slope analysis by an engineer of his choice.
Chairman Luntz explained that in the past if the Planning Board had an issue or questions, the
Planning Board would have obtained a peer review from another engineering firm, however, this
analysis has been done by a licensed professional familiar to the Planning Board for quality
work. The Planning Board has no authority to stop a resident from hiring his/her own
professional but the Planning Board does not see a reason to hold up this application to wait for
another study when they are satisfied with the professional engineer they have.

3

Mr. Kauderer stated that based on the steep slopes analysis and the sixteen criteria, it is
appropriate for the Planning Board to grant the steep slopes permit and that the house is fully
compliant with what the law allows (setbacks, FAR, height and size of house).
Mike Beato, 97 Cleveland, stated that he moved here a few months ago, and he also had some
concerns about stormwater runoff and the potential effects of excavating near his foundation.
He is concerned about the safety issues that might arise with a construction site in his backyard.
Mr. Doran stated that he understood the neighbors’ concerns but pointed out that the six months
of construction aren’t six months of heavy construction. He stated that he follows the village’s
ordinances regarding work hours (and does not work on Sundays) and he doesn't foresee any
problem with the neighboring foundations since there will be no blasting or hammering. There
will be more fill than excavation.
Janine St. Germain, 16 Olcott, stated that she is on the other side of Mr. Yurek’s house and she
too would be interested in meeting with the Village Engineer on site to discuss runoff. Her
house gets runoff from Thompson Avenue as well as Cleveland Drive. She also stated that to
her the house feels like a big house going on a small and narrow lot.
The Village engineer stated that he would be happy to arrange a site visit with those neighbors
that have expressed an interest and asked the neighbors to reach out to him by email to set up
a time and day.
The Planning Board agreed that the public hearing is optional, and given that the board has
been listening to public comment during this meeting, they would not require the more formal
noticing of a public hearing. Chairman Luntz stated that the application will be carried over to
the next meeting on April 27th. The Planning board members were in agreement.
b) Porteus & Sons Builders--35 Wells Avenue (Sec. 78.08 block 9 Lot 5.3)--Application for
Minor Site Plan Approval for new single-family dwelling.
c) Porteus & Sons Builders--37A Wells Avenue (Sec. 78.08 block 8 Lot 5.1) --application
for Minor Site Plan approval for new single-family dwelling.
PRESENT: Greg Porteus purchased 37 Wells Avenue; Al Capelli, architect
Mr. Capelli, architect, explained that the original house at 37 Wells was built on three lots, and
with lot line alterations, all three lots are now single zoning compliant lots for single family
houses. The house at 37 Wells is being renovated to fit on one lot. The applications before the
board are for the new two houses (35 Wells and 37A Wells) on either side of the original house
at 37 Wells.
Chairman Luntz noted that the three modestly-sized houses will fit in with the neighborhood.
The Village Engineer pointed out that the applicant is working on the site plan layout,
4

engineering plans, SWPPP, and water and sewer connections. There was discussion about
solar ready possibilities for the houses to which the architect said he was open to the idea.
Mr. Haynes stated that, in full disclosure, he lives directly across the street from these lots. As a
neighbor he wanted to point out that there are many neighborhood children who freely play in
the streets, and during the construction period he wanted to make sure there was minimal
impact on the neighborhood. He noted that parking is tight in this area (“the valley”) and where
there was once one house, there will now be three houses and it will change on-street parking.
Mr. Haynes wondered if there was a way to notice the neighbors on these minor site plans. The
Village Engineer stated that there are no steep slopes nor any public hearing requirement for
minor site plan approval.
Chairman Luntz noted that because some additional engineering and stormwater details were
needed on the plans, the application would be held over to the next meeting.
4. REFERRALS
a) Referral from the Village Board on the application from Hudson National Golf
Club for an amended special permit and site plan approval for modifications to
their maintenance area.
Mr. Davis, attorney, stated that the applicant was seeking approval for minor modifications for
an ancillary storage area; neither the use nor the size has changed in any way since 1996 and
the same area was used for similar purposes before. The only reason the applicant is here
tonight is that the golf club had not received approvals for the replacement of the roof of the
storage shed and the lengthening of the structure. He maintained that the drainage situation has
not changed for 25 years.
Mr. Mastromonaco, P.E. stated that there has been no significant change to the site since the
amended site plan was approved. Mr. Mastromonaco provided a description and chronology of
the history of the maintenance area since 1995. He had reviewed the files at the Village office
and had not found a building permit for the storage shed. He stated that HNGC has not made
any changes in the disturbance area except for the lengthening of the storage structure.
Mr. Davis stated that the elongation of this one building in 2014 did not increase the water flow
to the neighboring properties. Mr. Davis also pointed out that the issue is not that the club can or
cannot use this area for storage/maintenance, but rather the issue is for the modification of the
building (i.e. the extension of this structure). There had been no additional storage area
created.
Mr. Mastromonaco offered as a means of mitigation that the golf club proposes to construct a
roof over the storage bins, set disturbance limits, and remove a drainage pipe that crosses over
to the golf club from Prickly Pear Hill.

5

The Planning Board members agreed that they wanted to have Chazen Engineering review the
site and report back to the Planning Board, and to specifically look at any activities in the
maintenance area that may have caused additional water flow to the neighboring properties. Mr.
Davis reiterated that he believes the only item at issue is the expansion of the one building.
Ms. Whitehead stated that the special permit application is for the use of this property, not just
for the structures that exist on the property.
Mr. Kauderer stated that the issue is whether or not the club had done anything to impact the
drainage of the neighbors; the neighbors are allegedly stating that the golf course’s actions in
the maintenance yard have impacted the neighbors on Prickly Pear Hill Road.
Mr. Mastromanaco maintained that under no circumstances had there been any measurable
increase of water to the neighbors. He proposed that the Golf Club remove the pipe that goes
across Prickly Pear Hill Road, and this may help reduce some of the water the neighbors are
getting.
Mr. Scales, golf course superintendent questioned the validity of the neighbors’ claims and Mr.
Milton stated he believed that the allegations from the neighbors were false. Mr. Milton noted
that there had been no complaints from the neighbors until the solar project had come before
the village.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board would like to see Chazen weigh in on proposed
solutions and he did not believe that this review would derail the project. A report from Chaze
will allow the Planning Board to make a recommendation of the special permit hopefully by the
next meeting.
Ms. Whitehead concurred and stated that she thought it would be beneficial to the Golf Club for
Chazen to review. The allegations of misuse of pesticides and their management does not
mean that the Village is concerned about it since the village is aware of how the pesticides are
managed.
John Ealer, 5 Prickly Pear, stated that the north side is equally impacted (3 and 5 Prickly Pear
Hill Road) since there were all trees behind the houses and all the trees have been cut down.
They are not against the solar project but they are concerned and want a voice in the
conversation.
Mitchell Bring, 12 Prickly Pear, stated he believes that HNGC has been obscuring the facts and
that the site plan does not indicate there is a maintenance yard. He believes the Environmental
Management Plan has been violated and he stated that the neighbors’ disputes have been
going on for decades. He stated that water is coming off the course to adjacent properties and
a new topographic survey would show the changes in the water flow.
Mr. Kauderer stated that there are dueling opinions and it is difficult to sort out the facts.
6

Ms. Whitehead stated that the storage building was there but its use was not identified, and
there was no reference to its use as a maintenance yard. She suggested that getting an as-built
topographical survey would be helpful. The 1999 survey did not refer to a maintenance yard.
Mr. Paul Noto, attorney at Dorf and Nelson, stated he had sent a letter sent in as part of the
record, and wanted to emphasize that the Golf Club had engaged in a series of projects that
were not permitted. He agreed that it makes sense to have Chazen review and that his clients
want to be heard about some of the other issues raised.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board will refer the application for Chazen to review.
Ms. Whitehead reminded the applicant that escrow must be provided.
b) Referral Village board on Introductory Local Law 3 of 2021, to amend Section 230-44,
Signs of the Zoning Chapter of the Village code to permit lawn signs without time
restrictions inr residential zoning districts.
Ms. Whitehead, Village Attorney, stated there has been a proliferation of lawn signs and the
proposed revised sign law limits the number to no more than three in addition to limiting the size
and height of the signs. Residential yard signs have no time restraints, nor do they require
permitting.
After a discussion on the proposed revisions, the Planning Board made the following two
recommendations:
1. That the number of signs on lawns should be limited to two or less.
2. That the village should follow up on code enforcement of signs.
5. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes, as amended, of March 23,
2021, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL:
Luntz AYE, Krisky AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT).
6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 11:30
p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

7

