Planning Board Meeting Minutes
Zoom Video Conference
May 25, 2021
7:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan (Absent)

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of May 25, 2021 to order at 7:01 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Tokke, Hans DBA Double Docs Design --122 Grand Street (Section 78.8 Block 7 Lot 4)-Application for Change of Use from Food Services Use to Retail Use with Foods
Services and Arcade (“Croton Corners”).
Mr. Tokke stated that this store will be located in the former Orangeberry space, and across the
street from the newly created DoubleDocsDesign store. He explained the concept of the store-a combined hybrid retro soda shop, retail “general store”, arcade (video games) and home
decor for small furniture, benches, desk units, etc. He envisions a place where parents and
grandparents can bring their children and grandchildren and hopes the store provides a service
to the community.
Mr. Krisky asked about parking requirements. The Planning Board agreed that they have
waived on-site parking requirements for other businesses in the upper village. Mr. Tokke stated
that he would promote activities that won’t interfere with other upper village activities.
The Planning Board all agreed that the concept was a good idea and all were supportive of the
change of use. The signage application will be referred to the Advisory Board of the Visual
Environment (VEB) for its recommendation on the signage.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the Change of Use application and to refer
the signage application to the VEB, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the vote carried in favor by a
vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Kauderer AYE, Krisky AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan
muted).

b)

Hudson National Golf Club--40 Arrowcrest Drive (Section 67.15 Block 1 Lot 4)-Application for amendment of the Environmental Management Plan for revisions to
pesticide list.

PRESENT: Ms. LaJan Barnes and Dr. Stuart Cohen, both of Environmental Turf & Services,
Brett Scales, Superintendent of HNGC.
Mr. Scales stated that a revision to the pesticides list is an important process to make sure that
the golf course is using the best methods possible. He stated that a modification to the
pesticide list encourages safer materials since the newer pesticides are safer and more
environmentally friendly. He also stated that pests can develop an immunity to pesticides and it
is important to rotate products. Environment and Turf Services has recommended that 11
products be removed from the pesticide list and has added 17 new pesticides to the list for a
total of 34 pesticides. Ms. Barnes stated that some products are only for a specific problem;
approximately 15-20 are actively used. All 34 pesticides go through a risk evaluation process-the Environmental Impact Quotient (EIQ) evaluates each pesticide’s impact to the environment,
they are approved by the EPA and DEP, and are thoroughly reviewed by New York State.
One of the pesticides was not included because it has not yet been registered in New York and
therefore not evaluated. Most of the pesticides listed have a very low EIQ.
Chairman Luntz stated that the report was very readable and carefully put together and the
Planning Board appreciated the work completed. The Planning Board agreed that there seems
to be very low risk of the proposed revisions.
Ms. Jescavage-Bernard of the Croton Arboretum has been sent the report and the Village Board
liaison has reached out to Ms. Jescavage-Bernard as well and she had no comments.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the amendment of the Environmental
Management Plan for revisions to the pesticide list, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion
carried by a vote of 4-0. (ROLL CALL: Luntz, AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE,
Ghegan ABSENT)
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of April 27, 2021, as amended, seconded
by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Kauderer,
AYE, Krisky AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT)
5. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
Piney Point: The Planning Board asked the Village Engineer about the status of the Piney
Point houses. The Village Engineer explained that the owner is having a difficult time getting
the contractor to return to the site to fill in the site, and is also looking at reengineering the
footings. Mr. Krisky expressed concern that the site would continue to be left as is, and the
Village Engineer responded that the owner was serious about completion of the project but that
2

specialty contractors were difficult to get. The Village Engineer will follow up in a couple of
weeks.
Half Moon Bay: The Village Engineer stated that an Article 78 was taken against the Planning
Board, and that the case was working itself through the legal process. The Village Engineer will
reach out to Mr. Eugene Kim (President of the HMB HOA) and ask about the status of the
contract for the revetment repair. When asked about the easement location, the Village
Engineer stated that a letter was sent to the HOA to request that parts of the easement are to
encompass the promenade location. An updated survey is in progress.
Sidewalk at Croton Commons: The Village Engineer stated that there are a lot of residents
who have requested sidewalk repair as part of the 60-40 Sidewalk Repair program, so that is
taking up DPW time. The Village needs a permit from NYSDOT and most likely will need the
assistance of a consultant. He will discuss with the Village Manager and request that it be
considered as a priority project.
370 SRA: The Village Engineer stated that it is unclear what is holding up the completion of
these apartments over the mini-deli. He stated that the apartments are close to being
completed but there has to be a hookup to Con Edison and an electrical certificate for the
apartments in order to get the final Certificate of Occupancy. The owner has been extending his
building permit as is required by Village Code.
HNGC: Mr. Haynes stated that since he was unable to attend the site visit, he would like to
understand the observations of the board on the visit to the HNGC maintenance yard.
Chairman Luntz stated that the board was brought up to date on the same material we had
covered in earlier meetings, and learned that shed building had been expanded (4x the size)
which was a lot larger than what was on the approved plan. They listened to a plan about
potential grading that would happen on one side, some screening that is being proposed, and
an updated water management plan that would keep water on the uphill part of Prickly Pear
Road. He stated that Chazen is charged with coming up with a response to what is being
proposed. Mr. Kauderer stated that there were two issues: keeping the water north of Prickly
Pear Road so that it didn’t get to the downhill neighbors’ side, and screening off the
maintenance yard from potential houses that may be built. Mr. Krisky noted that they were told
that a percentage of the water issues on the lower side of Prickly Pear are being caused by
problems that were pre-existing.
6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:22 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board
3

