Planning Board Meeting Minutes
Zoom Video Conference
April 27, 2021
7:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes

ABSENT:

John Ghegan

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
1. Call to order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of April 27, 2021 to order at 7:03 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Porteus & Sons Builders--35 Wells Avenue (Sec. 78.08 block 9 Lot 5.3)-Application for Minor Site Plan Approval for new single-family dwelling.
b) Porteus & Sons Builders--37A Wells Avenue (Sec. 78.08 block 8 Lot 5.1) -application for Minor Site Plan approval for new single-family dwelling.
PRESENT: Al Cappelli, architect and Greg Porteus, owner
Mr. Cappelli stated that he had updated the site plan, showed the water main on the plan,
provided the SWPPP, as required, drainage report, and updated the rendering of the proposed
houses. He will provide more detail of the yard drains when he submits the building permit.
There was a brief discussion on the trees that were removed as part of the demolition of the
original house at 37 Wells. Mr. Cappelli stated that most of the trees that were to be removed
had already been cleared and no more trees would be removed. There will remain some
shrubbery and trees on the back property line.
Mr. Cappell stated that if possible the houses will be made solar-ready and this will be noted on
the building permit plans.
Mr. Haynes asked about the timing of the construction given that the neighborhood has many
children playing in the neighborhood. Mr. Porteus stated that he does not foresee any issues
with traffic or trucks in the street since all equipment and vehicles are kept off the street. His
crew is small and he recycles a lot of the materials--lumber, steel, copper, plantings. He also

noted that the neighborhood and the children are very disciplined and there hasn’t been any
issues thus far when work was done on 37 Wells.
The Planning Board added that the colors and roof should be consistent with the architectural
plans and the rendering, and that the house be made solar ready. The Village Engineer noted
that there are no wetlands or steep slopes issues.
MOTIONS:
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan resolution, as amended, for 35
Wells Avenue, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL:
Luntz AYE, Kauderer, AYE, Krisky AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT)
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan resolution, as amended, for 37A
Wells Avenue, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL:
Luntz AYE, Kauderer, AYE, Krisky AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT)
3. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
●

Chairman Luntz noted that Mr. Yurek was attending the meeting from the 99 Cleveland
Drive discussion, and he noted that 99 Cleveland Drive will be back on a future agenda,
but it is not on tonight’s agenda.

●

Mr. Haynes inquired about an item in the LWRP regarding Policy 2A on power boats on
the Hudson River. The Village Engineer explained that the LWRP had been revised and
sent to the Department of State and the village had not yet heard back from the
Department of State.

●

Hudson National Golf Club Maintenance Yard: There were some questions on whether
Chazen was going to determine if the drainage system from the golf course had an
impact on the neighbors, and if so, what could be done to fix this.
The Village Engineer stated that the new survey was completed and Mr. Mastromonaco
was integrating the survey onto the site plan.
There was also agreement among the board members that a site visit to the
maintenance yard would be beneficial to the board because the last site visit was just for
the solar panel application, not the maintenance yard. It would be helpful to see the site
so that the Board could recommend items such as sound mitigation, screening, and tree
planting to the Village Board.

●

The Village Engineer showed the results of the site visit with the neighbors near 99
Cleveland Drive on their concerns about drainage and water flowing to their properties.
The neighbor on Darby has no curb, and this will be solved by the Village installing a
curb. The other neighbor will be doing some drainage work on their property and this is
a private matter, not in the village’s purview.
2

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve, as amended, the minutes of April 13, 2021, seconded
by Mr. Krisky. The motion carried by a vote of 4-0 ((ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Kauderer, AYE,
Krisky AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan ABSENT)
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:09 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

