Planning Board Meeting Minutes
Zoom Video Conference
June 8, 2021
7:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of June 8, 2021 to order at 7:0o p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a)

Regan Development Corporation (contract vendee) -- 41-51 Maple Street (aka “Katz
Property”) --Section 78.12 Block 3 Lot 3) -- Application for site plan approval for a
multifamily residential development consisting of 33 apartments within two 2-story
buildings.

Aaron Werner, P.E. of AKRF, stated that they had received the Village Board special permit and
now are before the Planning Board for site plan approval. Mr. Easton, of Prime Companies,
explained they had submitted floor plans, elevations, landscaping, a stormwater drainage report,
and will be submitting the traffic report to the DOT. They are also submitting sewer permits to
the County,
The proposed retaining wall will be removed and instead a slope of wildflower seed mix will be
planted for year-round blooms to provide color and vegetation as well as to maintain soil
integrity.
The Planning Board members expressed concern that the plan provided limited green space for
recreation for the tenants of these buildings. It was noted that there is only one small
playground, but no porches, patios, or areas for barbecues or sitting outside of one’s apartment.
Some possibilities were discussed and Mr. Easton stated he will explore some options and will
return with some ideas to incorporate more green space.
Mr. Anthony Russo, P.E. explained that the plans were being sent to NYSDOT for their
comments. The Planning Board pointed out the error in data in the traffic measurements at
Municipal Place and Maple Street. AKRF agreed to make the corrections and submit to

NYSDOT. The applicant would need permits for the driveway and sidewalk, and for the
proposed signage that was recommended in the traffic study. The Planning Board members
asked about the sidewalk continuing up to Wells Avenue, the placement of the crosswalk, and
sidewalks south to Municipal Place. There was some concern that school aged children would
go out of the driveway, run across the street to get to the sidewalk as they headed north to
school.
Mr. Russo suggested that the Lead Agency and the applicant can have a discussion with the
NYSDOT who are open to listening and participating in a discussion regarding crosswalk
placement, sidewalks, and guide rails. He noted that the traffic report had concluded that there
would be no significant traffic impact to the area.
The Planning Board agreed that it would be helpful to have a representative from the Village at
the meeting with the DOT so that they can hear the village’s concerns.
After a discussion on the timing of a public hearing, it was decided that the Planning Board will
call for a public hearing at the next meeting (i.e., the public hearing will be scheduled for the first
meeting in July).
Ms. Whitehead suggested that the Village Engineer attend the NYSDOT Meeting and she will
follow up with the Village Manager to ask if a Planning Board member can attend. Chairman
Luntz stated that he would be in favor of Mr. Haynes being part of the NYSDOT Meeting.
The Planning Board asked the applicant to submit a rendering of the park area, and inquired
whether there would be solar panels on the building. Mr. Easton stated that there will be solar
panels on the roof.
It was agreed that an escrow account from the applicant needs to be established so that
Chazen Engineering can review the Stormwater plan.
3. REFERRALS
a) Joe Lippolis of BHHS River Towns Real Estate Inc. on behalf of Warren Koch and Julie
Huston (owners)-- 368 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 79.13 Block 1 Lot 71) --Referral
(pending) from Village Board on the application for a special permit for residential use of
an existing detached building in the C-2 Commercial/South Riverside Gateway District.
Mr. Lippolis stated that the current owners wanted to make the detached cottage building legal
since it has been residential for the past 30 years. The current Zoning Code allows for
residential use in a mixed-use building in the C-2 Commercial District/Harmon South Riverside
Avenue Gateway District. At the May Zoning Board of Appeals meeting, the ZBA granted an
area variance to allow for the residential use of a detached accessory structure behind a mixeduse commercial building, and one of the commercial parking spaces is designated as a space
for residential.

2

The Village Engineer noted that if a Special Permit is issued by the Village Board, this
application will return to the Planning Board for site plan approval.
The Planning Board reviewed the objectives as stipulated in Section 230-58:
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The existing structure is close to fire protection since the Harmon Firehouse is located at
the back of the house as is a fire hydrant. The alleyway from SRA to the back of the
structure is maintained for ingress and egress.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent
properties in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The current Zoning Code allows for residential use in a mixed-use building in the C-2
Commercial District in the Harmon/South Riverside Avenue Gateway District. The
Zoning Board of Appeals granted an area variance to allow for the residential use of a
detached accessory structure behind a mixed-use commercial building. It was noted
that this accessory structure for residential use has existed for many years.
C. The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and
of the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into
particular account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of
operations involved in or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its
relation to access street.
The Planning Board noted that the residential use is a pre-existing condition, and the
issues of safety and normal traffic are intensifying, and in fact may be less because the
structure is residential. The alleyway serves a means of ingress and egress and the
requirement for a second parking spot has been waived by the ZBA.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and heigh t
of walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent
land and buildings and their appropriate development.
The existing detached structure has existed for many years, and it is legally nonconforming with respect to the setback requirements. The ZBA variance includes a
condition that stipulates that the existing accessory building is not to be enlarged or
expanded.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board did not believe this objective was applicable.
MOTION: Mr. Ghegan made a motion to recommend the special permit for this application,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL: Luntz
AYE, Kauderer AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE, and Ghegan AYE).

3

b) Referral from the Village Board on the application from Hudson National Golf Club for
an amended special permit and site plan approval for modifications to their maintenance
area.
Mr. Bob Davis, attorney for the applicant, stated that there had been a site visit on May 18, 2021
with the engineers on what changes could be made and the site plan was revised in accordance
with the comments of Chazen. The revisions made include significant drainage to benefit the
neighbors, as well as screening, and, after revisions were made, Chazen advised the Village
Engineer that they had no further comments on the application. The applicant is requesting that
the Planning Board make a recommendation to amend the special permit as presented.
Chairman Luntz summarized the key points of the site walk. He stated that there was a
discussion about the disturbance area, the shed, the erosion control basin and the regrading of
the slope and mitigation of stormwater drainage issues to the neighbors on Prickly Pear
The Planning Board reviewed the objectives as stipulated in Section 230-58:
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The ancillary storage area is located on Prickly Pear Hill Road and fire trucks have
access to the gate for ingress and egress. There is a hydrant located nearby if needed.
The storage shed in the maintenance area is not a habitable shed nor is it near any
other structures.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent
properties in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The Planning Board noted that this storage area was pre-existing and had been
previously maintained as a storage area. This area will be compatible with proposed
extensive drainage improvements to keep water on the north side of Prickly Pear Hill
Road and with proposed landscape buffers to screen views from adjacent lands with
existing and future single-family homes.
C. The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and
of the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into
particular account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of
operations involved in or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its
relation to access street.
The Planning Board noted that the use of this ancillary storage area is used to store
materials and equipment. Mr. Bret Scales, Superintendent of the Golf Course will
provide a list of the specialty equipment that is stored in this area. The Planning Board
recommended that as part of the amended special permit, that there be no storage of
pesticides or hazardous chemicals in this ancillary storage area, and that the area not be
used as a staging area for construction projects elsewhere at the Golf Club.

4

D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height
of walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent
land and buildings and their appropriate development.
The Planning Board agreed that the proposed landscape buffers and proposed drainage
improvements will meet this objective. They noted that both the proposed landscaping
and drainage improvements are intended to protect the neighboring properties from
water runoff and provide screening. They acknowledged that the recent removal of the
stone retaining wall and regrading of the slope south of the storage bins has restored the
stability of the slope and eliminated the need of a building permit for the former retaining
wall. The proposed eight feet high landscape barrier west of the concrete storage bins
would assist with runoff issues. It was also noted that the removal of the pipe that
crosses Prickly Pear Hill Road is intended to confine the drainage to the north side of the
Prickly Pear Hill Road and away from the driveways on the south side.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board noted that the proposed stormwater management should not
adversely affect adjacent lands.
The Planning Board were in consensus to recommend the special use permit of the ancillary
storage area (“the maintenance yard”) but also recommended adding the following additional
conditions (including as a condition the note in “C” which recommends that there be no storage
of pesticides or hazardous chemicals in this ancillary storage area, and that the are not be used
a s a staging area for construction projects elsewhere at the Golf Club)-- 1) that, the nondisturbance area be adjusted to the satisfaction of the Planning Board as discussed at the
meeting on June 8, 2021, and 2) that, following the improvements made as laid out in the
submitted plan, that an as-built plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer to his
satisfaction.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to recommend the special use permit with the
additional conditions as noted, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0
(Luntz AYE, Kauderer AYE, Krisky AYE, Haynes AYE, Ghegan AYE)
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the May 25, 2021 Planning Board minutes, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
5. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
The Planning Board asked the Village Attorney about the temporary restraining order on the
Half Moon Bay Promenade. The Village Attorney stated that the revetment work can proceed,
but the restraining order is for the promenade work. There will be a preliminary hearing.
.
6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:00 p.m.
5

Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L Rose, Secretary to the Planning Board

6

