Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
held on Monday, June 21, 2021, via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$50,836.23
$12,220.17
$4,816.32
$4,966.80

Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 2021-2022
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a
5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$400,386.37
$125,553.02
$9,279.19
$776,535.21
5,821.16

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory 6 of 2021
to amend Chapter 168 of the Village Code entitled “Parks and
Recreation Areas” to clarify the allowable hours for leashed dogs in
“Black Rock Park” was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 2

Maggie Connor, 36 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
opposed to both Local Laws; with many people returning to their offices
they only have the opportunity to take their dogs to the park on weekends
and they should not be subject to the limited hours.
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
extremely frustrated, he believes that those who take their dogs to the
dog park have compromised on the hours, but it now appears that the
Board is also looking to restrict the leashed hours to match the already
restricted dog park hours and implored the Board not to change the
leashed hours which has never been an issue.
Halle Clarke, 28 Quaker Bridge Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that it is
wise to keep the hours the same because the inconsistency has become
an invitation for people to illegally use the dog park because they assume
that if the leash area is open until 8:00pm, so is the Dog Park and she
continually sees and hears dogs in that area in the early morning and in
the evening. Ms. Clark stated that there are plenty of other places that
people can walk their leased dogs and allowing leashed dogs in the park is
a relatively new development and keeping the hours eight to eight will
continually invite people knowingly or unknowingly to the dog park area
and potentially add to the noise burden.
Andrew Karp, 20 Quaker Bridge Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
supports the hours being consistent, dogs are going to bark whether they
are on or off a leash or if they are inside or outside the dog park. Mr. Carp
stated that the eighty-one percent increase in the dog park hours has
already resulted in an increased burden on him and his neighbors.
Written Comments:
Marc Albrecht, 191 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, states that the
Code should allow for leashed dogs in the park during all hours the park is
open and the only restriction for dogs should be within the dog park area.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 3

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory 7 of 2021
to amend Chapter 108 of the Village Code entitled “Dogs”, to clarify the
allowable hours for leashed dogs in “Black Rock Park” was made by
Trustee Murtaugh.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Horowitz and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Andrea Furey, 14 Morningside Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that as a
result of the reduced dog park hours it has forced people to walk their
dogs in the park and there is less barking in the dog park area. Ms. Furey
stated that being able to walk a dog on a leash or to take them to a dog
park is beneficial to having better behaved dogs. Ms. Furey stated that as
residents of Croton we all have to deal with noise, whether it is a dog
barking or people mowing their lawns; it is part of being in a community.
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that this is
an enforcement issue, not a dog owner issue and dog owners should not
be punished for the Village’s lack of enforcement. Mr. Hamilton stated
that leashed dogs do not go around barking and there are maybe one or
two dogs on a leash at any given time in the park and he finds it mind
boggling that dog owners are being punished and asked the Board to
leave the hours alone.
Earl DePass, 10 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is at the
Black Rock Park frequently with and without his dog, and during this time
of the year, because of the work he does for the State, he is there early in
the morning and late in the evening and can honestly say that whatever
noise the neighbors are complaining about is not more than what he gets
from dogs on his block, the hours should match the park hours, it is simple
and much easier to enforce. Mr. DePass stated that people walk down his
block with their dogs sometimes late at night and their dog may bark if
they see an animal but all of us have to deal with a certain level of barking
and he does not think that the residents in the vicinity of the park deal
with any more dog noise then other Village residents.

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 4

There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Murtaugh stated that we should leave well enough alone, these two Local
Laws are unnecessary, the access to the park not only benefits dogs but dog owners
and is something that we should not change. Trustee Murtaugh stated that we had
a long discussion about the dog park area hours, and we put a lot of thought into it
and resolved that problem and believes that these laws are trying to solve a
problem that does not exist. Trustee Murtaugh stated that if there are people in the
park or in the dog park area outside of the permitted hours the Park Rangers or the
Police Department should deal with it.
Trustee Simon stated that he accepts the sincerity of those that have spoken, he
has been working through this since this was brought up and agrees with Trustee
Murtaugh that we should not change the park hours. Trustee Simon stated that he
is concerned about the process we are using going about this particular effort, we
have spent a lot of time on the issue of the hours of the dog park and we arrived at
a good solution and was encouraged that within days of us arriving at that solution,
Geoff Hamilton and Halle Clark were in regular dialogue on how this was going to be
implemented. Trustee Simon stated that we have a bunch of issues to work on and
would like to see the Board get all those issues on the table and to deal with them
at some future time.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she has been going back and forth on this issue, she has
gone to the park on a regular basis to see and observe as other Trustees have; this
is a single Village park that allows leashed dogs and the hours for that particular
use should be the same hours as the park hours (8:00am to 8:00pm).
Trustee Horowitz stated that she believes the reason why the leashed dogs were
allowed at Black Rock was because we had a very over-zealous Park Ranger who
would ticket dog owners if their dogs jumped out of their car unleased to get to the
dog park and by allowing dogs on a leash was so that they could be walked from
their car to the unleashed dog park, and it stands to reason that those hours should
be available when the dog park is open. Trustee Horowitz stated that Croton has
miles of trails which allow dogs on a leash, and it is really not fair to say that Black
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 5

Rock is the only place. Trustee Horowitz stated that we have to remind ourselves
that we do care about our neighbors and if these residents are saying that it is a
burden to them, she believes them, we have reduced the hours of the dog park on
weekends, but we increased the weekly hours and believes we should have the
same.
Mayor Pugh stated that the purpose of allowing leashed dogs in Black Rock is to
provide access to the dog park, we can make arguments what the appropriate
hours for the dog park should be, but we have been through that discussion and
have reached a compromise and it does not make any sense to have the hours
separate since the point is to access the dog park. Mayor Pugh stated that there
are lots of alternatives to walk leashed dogs and there is nothing magical in that
regard about Black Rock, the unique feature is the dog park itself and does not see
any reason to have those hours separate.
Resolution #96-2021
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was not adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee
Gallelli Nay, Trustee Simon, Nay, Trustee Murtaugh Nay, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 168 of the Village Code, Parks &
Recreation Areas, to clarify the allowable hours for leashed dogs in Black Rock Park;
and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 6 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on June 21, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2021 to amend Chapter 168 of the Village Code,
Parks & Recreation Areas, to clarify the allowable hours for leashed dogs in Black
Rock Park, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 7 of 2021 .
Resolution #97-2021

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 6

On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was not adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee
Gallelli Nay, Trustee Simon, Nay, Trustee Murtaugh Nay, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 108 of the Village Code, Dogs, to
clarify the allowable hours for leashed dogs in Black Rock Park; and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 7 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on June 21, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2021 to amend Chapter 108 of the Village Code,
Dogs, to clarify the allowable hours for leashed dogs in Black Rock Park, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 8 of 2021.
4. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
5. CORRESPONDENCE –
a. E-mail from Donna O’Malley dated June 14, 2021, regarding a
residential parking permit system. To view letter, you may click on the
following link.
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/Parking_Permits_.pdf
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –
Donna O’Malley, 59 Hasting Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked when the
residential permit discussion might come up again so that she can
participate in the discussion; they have been waiting a long time for this
to come up and since Hastings Avenue is the only block that is really
affected, she does not feel that the survey had any real value.
Mayor Pugh stated that he anticipates the Board discussing this
sometime in September.
Earl DePass, 10 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, thanked the Board for
being pro-active about the prohibition of Cannabis use in our parks, there
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 7

are a lot more difficult decisions that the Board will have to make shortly,
but this is a good start.
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, agrees that the
Board is being proactive on the use of cannabis in our public parks and
while he does smoke, he agrees that there should not be any smoking in
our parks. Mr. Hamilton stated that he supports the opening of Tattoo
parlors and supports the Board looking at this.
7. APPROVED RESOLUTION FROM THE JUNE 14, 2021, WORK SESSION
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee
Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh
Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village
Board meeting held on October 7, 2003; and
WHEREAS this local law called for the setting of Village fees through
board resolutions; and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees would like to amend the Fee Schedule to
revise the fees for vendors selling in Village parks,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees
hereby adopts the following fee schedule in relation to vendors selling in
Village parks:
Vendor selling alcoholic beverages: $200 per day .
Vendor selling food or other items: $100 for first day, $200 for two days,
$250 for three days, $300 for four days, $325 for five days, $350 for six
days, $375 for seven days and $400 for eight days.
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #98 of 2021
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 8

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is a member community of the
Westchester County Urban County Consortium, making it eligible to apply for
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding; and
WHEREAS the Village has drafted three grant applications for various projects for
the current funding period, which is for the years 2022-2024, and
WHEREA a Public Hearing on these three projects was opened and closed on June 7,
2021, and
WHEREAS one such project involves the removal of the existing playground and
basketball court at Dobbs Park, and replacement of same; and
WHEREAS the removal and replacement of equipment is considered a Type II Action
under SEQRA, requiring no further action,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
supports the submittal of a grant application in the amount of $440,000 for
improvements to the Dobbs Park Playground and Basketball Court,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that should the grant be awarded, and the Village
proceed with the project, a 50% match in the amount of $220,000 shall be required.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Horowitz asked where the $440,000 amount came from and will there be
any input from the Village during the process.
Bryan Healy stated that the $440,000 estimate was drawn up by Westchester
County, they have staff in the Department of Planning that work with member
municipalities to create estimates for “CBDG” projects. Mr. Healy stated that if we
are awarded the grant there will be community input from residents to come up
with a final plan, but this is just an estimated number.

8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 9

Trustee Murtaugh stated that the net result is that we pay fifty percent of the cost
and if we are awarded the grant there is a possibility that the cost will not be
$440,000 after we have had a chance to review the design of the project.
Village Manager King stated that the County will only give us fifty percent of the
project, if the estimates come in less, the County will give us less and if the
estimate comes in higher, the County will not give us more than the $220,000.
Trustee Gallelli stated that it is important to understand that what we are doing this
evening is giving our stamp of approval on applying for such a grant and if we do
get the grant, then there will be a lot more consideration of the specifics and a lot of
opportunity for public input, but we cannot be involved in the process unless the
Board has a resolution of support for the request.
Resolution #99 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is a member community of the
Westchester County Urban County Consortium, making it eligible to apply for
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding; and
WHEREAS the Village has drafted three grant applications for various projects for
the current funding period, which is for the years 2022-2024: and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on these three projects was opened and closed on June
7, 2021, and
WHEREAS one such project involves the paving and expansion of the Brook Street
Parking Lot, and
WHEREAS, paving activities are considered an “Unlisted Action” under SEQRA,
requiring no further action,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
supports the submittal of a grant application in the amount of $240,000 for
improvements to the Brook Street Parking Lot.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 10

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that should the grant be awarded, and the Village
proceed with the project, a 50% match in the amount of $120,000 shall be required.
Resolution #100 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is a member community of the
Westchester County Urban County Consortium, making it eligible to apply for
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding, and
WHEREAS the Village has drafted three grant applications for various projects for
the current funding period, which is for the years 2022-2024, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on these three projects was opened and closed on June
7, 2021, and
WHEREAS one such project involves the removal and replacement of a retaining
wall along lower Grand Street; and
WHEREAS the replacement/reconstruction of a structure on the same site is
considered a Type II Action under SEQRA, requiring no further action,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
supports the submittal of a grant application in the amount of $118,152 for the
removal and reconstruction of the Grand Street retaining wall,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that should the grant be awarded, and the Village
proceed with the project, a 50% match in the amount of $59,076 shall be required.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Simon stated that the “CBDG” program is a great Federal program and if
we were a mere 32,000 larger in population, we could get this program directly
every year from the Federal government, but because we are not, we get it through
the County; these are great projects and hopefully the County will give them their
approval.
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 11

Resolution #101 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Joseph Lippolis for a first-floor residential dwelling at 368 South Riverside
Avenue; and
WHEREAS the applicant has received the necessary variance from the Zoning Board
of Appeals; and
WHEREAS on June 7, 2021, the Village Board referred the special permit application
to the Village Planning Board as required by law; and
WHEREAS the Planning Board has provided the board with a memorandum in
support of the application,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Tuesday, July 6, 2021, at 6 p.m. to consider the
issuance of a special permit for a first-floor residential dwelling at 368 South
Riverside Avenue,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via virtual
technology or in person in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
with the format to be dictated by the requirements then in effect by virtue of
COVID-19-related Executive Orders.
Resolution #102 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS, Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) has applied for an amended special
permit and site plan approval for modifications to their ancillary storage area; and
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 12

WHEREAS HNGC received its initial special permit for an annual membership golf
club on July 25, 1994, site plan approval on July 26, 1994, an amended special
permit on April 19, 1999, and amended site plan approval on March 2, 1999; and
WHEREAS on April 5, 2021, the Village Board referred the special permit application
to the Village Planning Board and Westchester County Planning Board as required
by law; and
WHEREAS the Village Planning Board has submitted a memorandum of support for
the special permit application,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Tuesday, July 6, 2021, at 6 p.m. to consider the
issuance of an amended special permit for HNGC for modifications to their ancillary
storage area,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via virtual
technology or in person in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
with the format to be dictated by the requirements then in effect by virtue of
COVID-19-related Executive Orders.
Resolution #103 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board meeting
held on October 7, 2003; and
WHEREAS this local law called for the setting of Village fees through board
resolutions; and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees would like to amend the Fee Schedule to revise the
fees for the use of Silver Lake in consideration of the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
the following fee schedule in relation to the use of Silver Lake:
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 13

Season Permit Fee:
Village Resident Family
Village Resident Adult
Village Resident Child (4 yrs. & up)
Village Senior (62+)
School District Family
School District Adult
School District Child (4 yrs. & up)
School District Senior (62+)

$250
$115
$80
$50
$350
$200
$150
$100

Daily Fee:
Adult Village Resident
Child Village Resident
Senior Village Resident (62+)
Adult School District
Child School District
Senior School District (62+)

$8
$4
$4
$14
$10
$10

Daily Fee After 5pm
Adult Village Resident
Child Village Resident
Senior Village Resident (62+)
Adult School District
Child School District
Senior School District (62+)

$6
$3
$2
$10
$5
$5

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Murtaugh asked where these fees are relative to what they were in the
2019 summer season.
Village Manager King stated that they are slightly higher, our Recreation Supervisor
increases these fees a little bit each year. Village Manager King explained that
these fees are for a full day as opposed to last year when we were only selling three
hour blocks of time.
Trustee Simon stated that he is fine with most of the fees but would like to see the
Daily Adult Village resident fees and Daily Child Village resident fees go back to the
levels we agreed on during the Budget; Adult Village resident $8.00 and Child
Village resident $4.00
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 14

Trustee Horowitz stated that she believes the fees for the Town pool go down after
4:00 o’clock.
Village Manager King stated that we stay open past the Town’s pool hours and 5:00
o’clock is what we have always done.
Resolution #104 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS on June 4, 2021, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson advertised Bid 04-2021
for police department holding cells; and
WHEREAS on June 16, 2021, one sealed bid was received and opened, and
WHEREAS the low bidder was Powell Safety Solutions of Sauver, Pennsylvania, at a
cost of $54,000; and
WHEREAS Frank Balbi, Superintendent
memorandum in support of the bid award,

of

Public

Works,

has

submitted

a

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to award the contract for the police department holding cells to
Powell Safety Solutions at a cost of $54,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for this award is available through the
following capital account: H3120.2102.09193.
Resolution #105 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 230 of the Village Code, Zoning,
to eliminate the prohibition against video game and arcade machines, notification
procedures for sheds and penalties for offenses; and
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 15

WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 8 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS the Village has completed a Part 1 of a Full Environmental Assessment
Form (EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF),
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is a Type 1
action.
2. The Village Board hereby declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes in connection with the Proposed Action.
3. The Village Board hereby issues the EAF and CAF which it has before it in
connection with the Proposed Action.
4. The Village Board hereby refers to the Village Planning Board the Draft Law
for a report back to the Village Board in accordance with Village law.
5. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the
Village Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the
Village Board in accordance with Village Law.
6. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF the
Westchester County Planning Board for review in accordance with law.
7. The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations
and notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
Resolution #106 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village would like to delete Chapter 202 of the Village Code, Tattoos,
so as to allow tattooing within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2021 which has been drafted for such
purposes,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on July 19, 2021, at 6 PM to consider Local Law Introductory No.
9 of 2021 to delete Chapter 202 of the Village Code, Tattoos,
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 16

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via virtual
technology or in person in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
with the format to be dictated by the requirements then in effect by virtue of
COVID-19-related Executive Orders.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that Chapter 202 dates back to 1990 and it is not a bad idea
to update our Code and feels that this is an appropriate time to revisit this, the
Chapter talks about health and endangerment and believes that we have come a
long way in terms of ensuring that these things are done in an appropriate and safe
manner.
Mayor Pugh stated that other areas of our Code have similar vintage that reflected
the values at that time but are not necessarily reflective today.
Resolution #107 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 168 of the Village Code, Parks
and Recreation Areas, to prohibit the smoking of cannabis in Village-owned parks
and recreation areas; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2021 which has been drafted for such
purposes,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on July 19, 2021, at 6 PM to consider Local Law Introductory No.
10 of 2021 to amend Chapter 168 of the Village Code, Parks and Recreation Areas,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via virtual
technology or in person in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
with the format to be dictated by the requirements then in effect by virtue of
COVID-19-related Executive Orders.
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 17

Resolution #108 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
WHEREAS the Village has received complaints regarding the property located at 117
North Riverside Avenue, designated on the tax maps as Section 67.20, Block 004,
Lot 011; and
WHEREAS the complaints are generated by the condition of the property area; and
WHEREAS the Village’s Code Enforcement Officer has issued an Order to Remedy
Violations – Ten Day Notice, dated June 3, 2021, which was sent by certified mail,
and
WHEREAS a previous property cleanup was undertaken at this location in October
2020; and
WHEREAS Section 179-2 of the Village Code requires all property to be maintained
and, upon failure of the property owner to maintain said property, provides for
Village cleanup, after proper notice to the property owner, with the cost of the
cleanup being assessed against the property,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees finds that
there are ongoing violations of the Village Law and State Codes as indicated above
and that these violations must be abated to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the Village residents; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the total costs of removing all weeds, brush, refuse,
rubbish, and other materials will be added to the Village tax bill for 117 North
Riverside Avenue if the prepared invoice is left unpaid by the property owner.
Resolution #109 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz Aye, Trustee Gallelli
Aye, Trustee Simon Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye.
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 18

WHEREAS DPW Superintendent Frank Balbi has submitted a request to purchase
battery powered equipment totaling $1,952; and
WHEREAS this equipment includes one battery powered leaf blower and one battery
powered weed trimmer, and the associated batteries and chargers, and
WHEREAS on January 6, 2020, the Board of Trustees established a capital account,
H1000.2770.20375, for the accrual of funds from the solar array located at the DPW
Garage; and
WHEREAS this equipment would fall under the sustainable initiatives this account is
allowed to fund; and
WHEREAS this account currently has an available balance of $25,227.51,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the purchase of the requested equipment at a cost of $1,952.
9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Maggie Connor, 36 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that our
demographics are changing, and some residents have to depend on two
or three incomes and need to do many errands on weekends and the
current hours for the dog park are not suitable and a study should be
conducted.
10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on June 7, 2021, was made by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11.REPORTS:
Trustee Gallelli stated that she is excited that “Silver Lake” is opening
with no Covid limitations and congratulated all of Croton’s Middle School
and High School graduates.
Trustee Horowitz advised that the “Diversity and Inclusion Committee” will
be holding a group discussion on June 24 th via Zoom at 7:00pm about the
evolving language of gender and sexuality. Trustee Horowitz advised that
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 19

after the formal High School graduation there will be a parade and
encouraged everyone to come out and congratulate our seniors as they
drive throughout the Village
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he understands that in the past we have
had our Code Enforcement Officer knock on doors of homes where
hedges were impinging on the sidewalk making it impassable and asked if
there is a mechanism to notify a property owner that their bushes need to
be trimmed back.
Village Manager King stated that we do not necessarily have a practice of
just driving around and it is usually best when someone notifies the
Engineering Department and then we reach out to the homeowner.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he understands that we are coming to the
end of Zoom meetings but asked at what point can we waive the preregistration for non-Agenda comments.
Mayor Pugh stated that with Zoom anyone can join in, and we felt it was
worthwhile to make sure that we are getting residents addressing real
issues in the community; a person can pre-register up to the close of
business on the day of our meeting and we felt that if it is important for
that person to comment they could have easily registered.
Trustee Simon advised that the “Bicycle Pedestrian Committee” met last
Wednesday, they discussed the early success of “Slow Down Croton” and
their ideas of expanding the program; they also talked about establishing
the “Walking School Bus” idea with our Schools; this past Friday the
annual “Rotary” and “Croton Caring Committee” dinner was held in
Senasqua Park; he attended a transportation seminar last week sponsored
by the “AAA” that focused on possible safety provisions within the
“Transportation Bill; and thanked long time Zoning Board member, Mark
Aarons for his many years of services, Mark will be relocating and we are
grateful for his service to the community. Trustee Simon wished his father
a Happy 98th Birthday.
Mayor Pugh thanked Village Staff for organizing our annual “Flag Raising”
in honor of “Juneteenth”. Mayor Pugh appointed Rocco Mastronardi to the
Zoning Board and reminded everyone that tomorrow is “Primary Day”.
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
June 21, 2021
Page 20

There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. 7:51pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

20

