Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
held on Monday, May 17, 2021, via ZOOM and Web-Streaming.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Bullock
Village Attorney Whitehead
Secretary to Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year 20202021 Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved
with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$70,040.22
$9,811.65
$4,547.14
$11,099.56
$5,885.00

3. PRESENTATION: George Latimer, Westchester County Executive,
presented an update on COVID in Westchester County, affordable housing
and upcoming capital projects. To view the presentation, you may log
onto the following:
https://view.earthchannel.com/PlayerController.aspx?
&PGD=crotononhudson&eID=882
4. PUBLIC HEARING:
Motion to open the Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory 3 of 2021 to
amend Section 230-44, “Signs”, to modify provisions related to signage in
residential zoning districts was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Roseann Schuyler, Olcott Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she does
not agree that expressions of public speech made on private property are
illegal no matter how long they remain on someone’s private property; the
Village did not state any legal or compelling interest in regulating the size,
number and placement of these yard signs and yet this law does regulate
all of those things. Ms. Schuyler stated that, through a Freedom of

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 2

Information Request, she saw no complaints about the number, size or the
placement of signs on residential properties and that the Village had not
been enforcing the current law and believes that the Board is
misunderstanding the rights that people have to speak on private
property.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he does not
support the law and feels that the Village is taking away the rights of
private property owners. Mr. Riely stated that he believes that this law is
being directed at political speech on private property and as a member of
a minority political party in Croton, we need signs to get the message out.
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that
regulating any kind of free speech on private property is a slippery slope
and, if implemented, if should be implemented with extreme caution.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Village is actually expanding the speech rights
of residents by removing the restrictive aspects of the law. Mayor Pugh
emphasized that our current Code put a time limit on signs and this
proposed law removes that limit and asked Village Attorney Whitehead
how the current sign language interacts with the existing language on
election signs.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that Croton’s Zoning Code already
regulates signage on residential properties; size limits are for aesthetic
reasons and the number of signs are for safety; the proposed law allows
lawn signs no matter what they say to remain on private property as long
as they meet the size requirement and referred to Section C. of the
proposed law with respect to election signs: “Temporary signs pertaining
to election campaigns” - Such signs shall not be subject to the forty-fiveday limitation in Subsection K(1) above but shall be removed within 10
days after the election day. Village Attorney Whitehead added that when
the Planning Board reviewed the proposed law, they felt that two signs
were appropriate as opposed to the three signs the Board is proposing.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 3

Trustee Simon stated that he believes it appropriate for signs relating to a
specific election to come down after an election and for safety and
esthetic purposes to keep all signs to three and to the required size.
Resolution 63-2021
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning
Chapter of the Village Code to modify provisions related to signage in the residential
zoning districts of the Village; and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 3 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS the draft law has been reviewed by the Village Planning Board,
Westchester County Planning Board and Waterfront Advisory Committee as required
by law; and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2021 was opened and
closed on May 17, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2021 to amend Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning
Chapter of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to modify provisions related
to signage in the residential zoning districts of the Village, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 4 of 2021.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that the intent of this law is to support free speech on private
property and this law expands those rights as well as trying to conform to our Code
and the actual practices of the Village.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that this is a benign law and is intended to provide more
flexibility for our residents and good will among the community and believes the
fears that some have expressed are unwarranted.
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 4

5. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL – none
6. CORRESPONDENCE –
a. E-mail from Joseph Martinelli, American Legion Post 505 dated April 14,
2021, advising that the Memorial Day Ceremony will be held on
Monday, May 31st at 11:00am at Veterans Corner.
b. E-mail from Maria Slippen, Chair of the “Recreation Advisory
Committee”, dated May 14, 2021, regarding recommendations for
“Black Rock Dog Park”. To view letter, click on the following link:
https://crotononhudson.novusagenda.com/Agendapublic/
CoverSheet.aspx?ItemID=5765&MeetingID=866
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS –
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
supports the “Recreation Advisory Committee’s” recommendations, with
people going back to work, Saturdays and Sundays are the only days that
are available for some. Mr. Hamilton suggested that the noise at night
could be coming from the workers doing the river study or from our DPW
staff who may be there at night. Mr. Hamilton did say that dogs get
excited and do bark when a new dog enters the park, and a responsible
dog owner should be able to calm their dog down.
Maggie Connor, Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that many people
who commute to the city have limited day light hours and also suggested
expanding the usage to more people as well as the hours.
Halle Clarke, 28 Quaker Bridge Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that this is
a specialty park for dogs and should not match the hours of the other
parks in our community; the Dog Park has a negative impact on the
neighborhood and the hours need to reflect that. Ms. Clarke stated that
Ossining’s Dog Park is closed on weekends which demonstrates that
communities do not need to have uniform parks hours. Ms. Clarke stated
that this is not a standard “Dog Park” and goes against industry standards
by being fifty feet from homes, eight months ago the Board approved the
current hours which was designed to create some equity for everyone and
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 5

does not understand why we are revisiting this and adding school district
residents is only going to compound the issue.
Adam Decker, 13 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
supports expanding the Dog Park hours similar to Croton’s other parks.
Mr. Decker also stated that he endorses the adoption of the “Negative
Declaration” with respect to the 41-51 Maple Avenue project.
Andrew Karp, 20 Quaker Bridge Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
lives across from the “Dog Park” and when the Board curtailed the hours
of operation it was the first time in over ten years that he and his
neighbors were given some relief from the sound of dogs barking across
the street from their homes; it is baffling to him that the “Recreation
Advisory Committee” is recommending that the Village extend the park
hours by thirty-four hours (an 81% increase each week). Mr. Karp stated
that increasing the hours by such a significant amount is like rubbing salt
on an open wound for his family and allowing school district residents to
use the park will only increase those numbers. Mr. Karp asked the Board
to find a reasonable solution such as moving it to another appropriate
location that is farther from homes and while that solution is being
researched, he urged the Village to reject the recommendations and keep
the hours as they are.
Lindsay Audin, 221 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
supports the purchase of the electric vehicle, we are in a race situation to
try to get points to be eligible for a $70,000 grant through the “NYSERDA”
program that would be used for future purposes and by purchasing the
vehicle it will bring us closer to securing those points.
Village Manager King advised that she received e-mails from James Miller,
18 Wolf Road, Adam Reyer, 104 Penfield, and Steve Krisky., 49 Sunset
Drive, all recommending that the Board adopt the “Recreation Advisory
Committee’s” recommendations; Julie Lewis, 49 Sunset Drive, states that
the Sunday recommendation of 10:00am – 2:00pm is too limiting,
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #66 of 2021
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 6

On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Regan Development Corporation for two multi-unit residential buildings on the
parcel located at 41-51 Maple Street, and
WHEREAS on April 5, 2021, the Village Board declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes, and
WHEREAS on May 4, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and
review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the EAF “Determination of
Significance” attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on May 4, 2021, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy standards
and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues
and adopts the EAF Parts 2, and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto
and adopts a Negative Declaration pursuant to SEQRA in connection with this
action.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees found the following LWRP policies to be applicable and
finds the Proposed Action to be consistent with each of these applicable policies:

Policy 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public services
and facilities essential to such development are adequate, except when such
development has special functional requirements or other characteristics which
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 7

necessitate its location in other coastal areas.
Policy 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed
within the current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close
proximity to areas where distribution lines currently exist.
Policy 5C: Limit proposed development within those portions of the coastal zone
boundary area, where traffic impacts such as site distance and carrying capacity
of the roadways are restricted, particularly along Route 9A, Albany Post Road and
Route 129.
Policy 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer
overflows shall be effectively channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, and other
contaminants from polluting surface and ground water and impact the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase
in erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations.
Construction activity shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species
and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
Policy 7G: Such activities must not cause degradation of water quality or impact
identified significant fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 11: Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to
minimize damage to property and the endangering of human lives caused by
flooding and erosion.
Policy 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order
to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and
promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design,
construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 8

Policy 13: The construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures
shall be undertaken only if they have a reasonable probability of controlling
erosion for at least thirty years as demonstrated in design and construction
standards and/or assured maintenance or replacement programs.
Policy 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction
of erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no
measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities or
development, or at other locations.
Policy 18: To safeguard the vital economic, social and environmental interests of
the state and of its citizens, proposed major actions in the coastal area must give
full consideration to those interests, and to the safeguards which the state has
established to protect valuable coastal resource areas.
Policy 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of
stormwater runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.
Policy 33A: Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as
to not increase flows within the existing system or to improve existing stormwater
runoff systems so that runoff from such developments does not adversely impact
coastal waters.
Policy 37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point
discharge of excess nutrients, organics and eroded soils into coastal waters.
Policy 37A: Standards and specifications for the control of non-point source
discharge as set forth in Westchester County’s Best Management Practice Manual
or other recognized reference shall be utilized during development of any site.
Policy 37B: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be
exerted in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 9

construction.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above
were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:
Based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its determination that
the Proposed Action, the construction of two multi-family residential buildings at 4151 Maple Street, complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the
Village’s LWRP.
Resolution #67 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Regan Development Corporation for two multi-unit residential buildings on the
parcel located at 41-51 Maple Street, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board has issued a memo to the Village Board with a
favorable recommendation and the WAC has issued a memo of consistency with the
Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP), and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was held and closed on May 4, 2021, and
WHEREAS on May 17, 2021, the Village Board issued a Negative Declaration with
respect to the proposed action. and
WHEREAS on May 17, 2021, the Village Board determined that the Proposed Action
was consistent with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s
LWRP,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board issues a special permit for
two multi-unit residential buildings at 41-51 Maple Street subject to the following
conditions:
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 10

1. That the applicants must obtain site plan approval from the Planning Board.
2. That the applicants must obtain the necessary approvals from the New York
State Department of Transportation.
3. That the applicants work with the New York State Department of
Transportation on potential pedestrian safety improvements.
4. That the applicants work with Westchester County on the relocation of the
bus stop and shelter.
5. That the applicants must submit a lighting plan for the buildings to be
reviewed as part of the Planning Board Site Plan approval process.
6. That the applicants be required to provide escrow funds to be used for the
Planning Board to retain any necessary environmental consultant to assist in
the review of the site plan in accordance with Chapter 178 of the Village
Code.
7. That a bond or other suitable security acceptable to the Village be submitted,
prior to a building permit being issued, covering the costs of the
improvements in the street Rights of Way.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King stated that there was a discussion at the Planning Board
meeting regarding parking with one member requesting additional parking; the
parking requirement in the “RFP” (Request for Proposal) was specific, and
Westchester County has weighed in as well and they have indicated that they felt
there is too much parking. Village Manager King stated that she would like the
Board to discuss this and whatever the Board decides, she would like that number
added to the conditions.
Jamie Easton, Regan Development, stated that the original parking requirement was
fifty-five; the proposed parking that was shown in the “Concept Plan” was sixty-one
and as they got into the design that number was reduced to sixty parking spaces
which is five over the minimum Code requirement. Mr. Easton stated that this does
not change the “Site Plan” or the “Disturbance Limits” but will have an effect on a
small amount of impervious area.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the parking spaces was based on the
number of units and the bedroom mix, the County letter suggested less to try to
reduce impervious surfaces, but there was some discussion at the Planning Board
meeting that there may not be enough parking even though it met the requirement;
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 11

in response to that discussion, the applicant found areas to add spaces, but it is a
decision that the Board needs to make.
Trustee Simon stated that he would be content with the additional parking spaces.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she listened to the Planning Board discussion and their
desire to have more; the fact that the developer is able to add five more parking
spaces without having any adverse effect on the “Site Plan” is good and is in favor
of the sixty parking spaces.
Mayor Pugh said that if the applicant is able to accommodate the additional spaces,
he does not see any reason not to approve the additional spaces.
Resolution #68 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh, Abstain, Mayor Pugh Aye, motion
passed with a 4-0 vote.
AUTHORIZING TAX CERTIORARI SETTLEMENT WITH PETITIONER SKY VIEW NURSING
REALTY LLC - Section 67.18 Block 1, Lots 1 & 2
WHEREAS petitions have been filed by the party above challenging real property tax
assessments on the Village’s assessment roll, and
WHEREAS the petitioner’s court challenge is now pending in Supreme Court,
Westchester County, and
WHEREAS the Village and petitioner have reached a mutually agreeable resolution
and the cost to the Village based on the reductions in assessments is ±$93,804 and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees has had an opportunity to review this matter and
has been satisfied that the proposed settlement is just, reasonable and in the
interest of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby authorizes the Village Attorney to execute and sign the
attached Consent Order & Judgment,
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 12

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
payment to the petitioner as outlined in the Consent Order & Judgment,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to transfer
$44,551.67 from Contingent Account A1990.4000 to A1960.4000,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the payment of $93,804 shall be charged to
A1960.4000 – Refunds on real property.
Resolution #69 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS on April 29, 2021, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson advertised Bid 012021 for tree trimming and removal services, and
WHEREAS on May 12, 2021, four sealed bids were received and opened, and
WHEREAS the low bidder was Golden’s Tree Service of Montrose, New York,
at the rate of $2,350 per day, consisting of a work crew of three and equipment, for
a total of $70,500, and
WHEREAS Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, has submitted a
memorandum regarding the funding situation for this year and has recommended
awarding the contract to the low bidder,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to award the contract for tree trimming and removal services to
Golden’s Tree Service of Montrose, New York, for a one-year period beginning June
1, 2021, through May 31, 2022, with an option to extend for two additional one-year
periods.
Resolution #70 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 13

New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS, the Village would like to amend Chapter 197 of the Village Code, Streets
and Sidewalks, to include an appeals process for the removal of snow and ice on
sidewalks; and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 4 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, June 7, 2021, at 6 p.m. to consider the
adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2021 to amend Chapter 197 of the
Village Code, Streets and Sidewalks, to include an appeals process for the removal
of snow and ice on sidewalks; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #71 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 70 of the Village Code, Alarm
Systems, to update the appeals process for contesting denial, suspension,
revocation or charges, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 5 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, June 7, 2021, at 6 p.m. to consider the
adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2021 to amend Chapter 70 of the Village
Code, Alarm Systems, to update the appeals process for contesting denial,
suspension, revocation or charges, and
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 14

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
Resolution #72 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS in November 2011, the Village Board of Trustees authorized a contract
with Mid-Hudson Ambulance District (MHAD) to provide supplemental Emergency
Medical Technician (EMT) services to the Croton Emergency Medical Services (EMS),
and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to continue to provide supplemental services to the
Croton EMS, and
WHEREAS MHAD has provided an agreement to continue providing supplemental
EMT services to the Croton EMS at a rate of $25.00 per hour for one year, and
WHEREAS the agreement is effective June 1, 2021, through May 31, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute an agreement for EMT services from
MHAD, at a rate of $25.00 per hour, for the period beginning June 1, 2021, through
May 31, 2022.
Resolution #73 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson intends to apply for Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding from Westchester County for the 20222024 funding cycle, and
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 15

WHEREAS the Village will be submitting the following projects for consideration: the
improvement of the Brook Street parking lot, the replacement of the Dobbs Park
playground equipment and resurfacing of the Dobbs Park basketball court, the
replacement of the retaining wall along lower Grand Street and the replacement of
an existing sidewalk along South Riverside Avenue between Oneida Avenue and
Bungalow Road, and
WHEREAS as part of the application process, the Village must hold a public hearing
to discuss the merits of these projects,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, June 7, 2021, at 6 p.m. to consider the
merits of the projects included in the Village’s CDBG application; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that she is pleased that the Village is once again applying for
“CDBG” Grants; we have had many successful projects in the past and the ones that
are listed in the resolution are very deserving projects and looks forward to the
steps ahead in order to continue with this application.
Resolution #74 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS on May 10, 2021, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson advertised Bid 02-2021
for the purchase of a plug-in hybrid vehicle for parking enforcement, and
WHEREAS on May 14, 2021, one bids was received and opened, and
WHEREAS the low bidder was Tasca Ford of Berlin, Connecticut, at the price of
$33,930.30,
15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 16

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to award the contract for the purchase of a plug-in hybrid
vehicle to Tasca Ford of Berlin, Connecticut, at a price of $33,930.30, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
transfer $33,930.30 from Contingent Account A1990.4000 to A5650.2000, OffStreet Parking – Equipment, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the cost of this purchase shall be charged to
A5650.2000.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that this is important, not only for its value on its own as a
vehicle, but what it means to us competitively in getting assistance for other
sustainability projects through additional “NYSERDA” grants. Trustee Simon stated
that he believes the “Sustainability Committee” will be successful in getting the
Village the additional funding from “NYSERDA” which will be more than twice the
cost of the vehicle.
Resolution #75 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 168 of the Village Code, Parks &
Recreation Areas, to clarify the prohibition on dogs in parks, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 6 of 2021 which has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, June 21, 2021, at 6 p.m. to consider the
adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2021 to amend Chapter 168 of the
Village Code, Parks & Recreation Areas, to clarify the prohibition on dogs in parks,
and

16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 17

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such public hearing shall be held via
videoconference in accordance with the rules and regulations outlined in Executive
Order 202.1 issued by Governor Andrew Cuomo.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager King explained that when we amended our Code to allow dogs on
leashes in “Black Rock” (outside of the Dog Park area) we mistakenly did not limit
the hours to align with the Dog Park hours. Village Manager King stated that
whatever the decision the Board makes on Dog Park hours, it will also pertain to the
area outside of the Dog Park so that it is consistent.
Resolution #76 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
WHEREAS on May 3, 2021, Village Manager Janine King submitted her letter of
resignation for the purposes of retirement to the Village Board of Trustees effective
August 9, 2021, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is desirous of appointing Secretary to the Village
Manager Bryan Healy to the position of Village Manager effective August 9, 2021, at
a starting salary of $130,000,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the employment agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and
Bryan Healy, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes the
Mayor to execute the contract on its behalf.
DISCUSSON:
Trustee Gallelli stated that this is a wonderful outcome and highly endorses this.

17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 18

Mayor Pugh stated that Village Manager King has many great qualities and one of
those is being able to identify talent and to nurture that talent and thanked her for a
job well done in preparing Bryan Healy.
Discussion regarding Dog Park
Village Manager King stated that we have never opened the Dog Park to anyone but
Village of Croton residents and does not recommend opening it up to School District
Residents.
Bryan Healy advised that we have currently issued sixty permits.
Trustee Simon stated that he believes that we should expand the hours of the Dog
Park because people require access at different times depending on their
circumstances and thanked the “Recreation Advisory Committee” for giving the
Board options. Trustee Simon said that we should continue to be open to ways in
which we can improve the situation for the advocates of the Dog Park and for those
that feel that they are hurt by it.
Trustee Gallelli thanked the “Recreation Advisory Committee” for their deliberation
and for their recommendations, this is a difficult situation and no matter how we
end up there are going to be people who are not happy. Trustee Gallelli stated that
looking ahead, we need to make a commitment as a Board to look at alternative
locations and concurred with Manager King that we keep the Dog Park to Village
residents only. Trustee Gallelli said that the split hours have created some problems
on their own and would like to see a solid block of hours on week-days either
shortened at each end or in the morning
Village Manager King stated that she feels that twelve hours is far too long and
while we only heard from two neighbors, they were pretty articulate and to go from
the split hours to twelve hours is too long.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that the volume of “pro-parkers” has been tremendous,
and the “anti-parkers” is restricted to those six families who signed the letter; in his
opinion, “Black Rock” is under-utilized, and our residents are clamoring for
recreational activities and no other park permits dogs. Trustee Murtaugh stated that
every resident in this community encounters some sort of environmental noise, but
it is part of living in a community. Trustee Murtaugh stated that since he has come
on the Board, he has visited the park around two dozen times, every day of the
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 19

week, at various hours when the dog park was open and found it to be a very lightly
used facility, he has never seen more than three or four dogs at any given time,
most often the park is empty, what he did hear was a rooster crowing, chain saws,
lawn care machines, cars, a Canada Goose honking repeatedly, noises we cannot
control, but he did not hear any dogs barking in his twenty-four visits. Trustee
Murtaugh started that many homes abut parks, some private and some public and
we will face real serious issues if we allow residents who abut parks to start to
determine what hours those parks are open for use by the general public. Trustee
Murtaugh stated that maybe there is a place where another dog park could be
created but that is something the Board will need to review and recommends
following the “Recreation Advisory Committee’s” suggestions and concurs with
Trustee Gallelli and Manager King that we leave it as a Croton resident only facility.
Mayor Pugh asked the Liaison’s to comment on the “Recreation Advisory
Committee’s” recommendation of 10:00am-2:00pm on Sunday.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that the “Recreation Advisory Committee” believed that
some relief was in order for the “Quaker Bridge Road” families and that this was a
reasonable concession.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she thought it was an attempt to honor the request of
the neighbors for some relief from the barking. Trustee Horowitz stated that there
is a lot of antagonism and philosophically we can say “we can’t please everyone”,
but there are some options that we have not really put our energy into and believes
if we were to leave that door open it would at least bring some possibility of a more
even distribution. Trustee Horowitz stated that she understands the numbers are
not the same, with sixty permit holders versus six families, but it is hard to just
ignore the concerns of families and agrees that we should not open the park to nonresidents of the Village and that going from six hours a day to twelve is a big leap.
Trustee Simon stated that this is a good template of where we should be going in
the future in terms of trying to find some reasonable approaches on this and does
not support issuing permits to non-Village residents. Trustee Simon emphasized
that there is more work to be done and we need a lot of people to be around the
table to look at the different options.

19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 20

Mayor Pugh stated that he supports residents only and that we should also look into
alternative sites and asked for thoughts on keeping the 10:00am-4:00pm on
weekends.
Trustee Simon stated that people have different lives and are doing different things
and believes that providing that additional two hours would be appropriate
especially since it has an historical context.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he support 8:00am to 8:00pm on weekdays and
10:00am to 4:00pm on weekends.
Village Manager King recommended shortening the hours during the winter months
since it gets dark at 6:00pm.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she would like to see more than a casual plan for
keeping options open for another location for a “Dog Park”.
Mayor Pugh advised that this is going to be discussed at our May 24, 2021, Work
Session.
Resolution #77 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with the following Roll Call Vote: Trustee Horowitz, Aye, Trustee Simon
Aye, Trustee Gallelli, Aye, Trustee Murtaugh Aye, Mayor Pugh Aye
Resolved that the Board of Trustees hereby approves the following Dog Park Hours
of Operation:
8:00am-8:00pm

April 1st through September 30th

Monday through Sunday 8:00am-6:00pm

October 1st through March 31st

Saturday and Sunday

Entire Year

Monday through Friday

10:00am-4:00pm

9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS – none
10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

20

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 21

Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on May 3, 2021, was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on May 5,
2021, was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on May 11,
2021, was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on May 13,
2021, was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS
Trustee Gallelli stated that we discussed a number of big issues this
evening and thanked all those who participated in the discussions.
Trustee Gallelli reminded everyone to put the “Memorial Day” ceremony
on their calendar, it is wonderful to be able to have a live “Memorial Day”
ceremony again.
Trustee Murtaugh thanked everyone for participating this evening on the
various issues and looks forward to continuing the discussion of moving or
adding an additional Dog Park in the future. Trustee Murtaugh advised
that Senator Pete Harckham is holding a food drive at Croton Harmon
High School this Saturday from 12:00-2:00pm.
Trustee Simon advised that he and Deputy Mayor Gallelli continue to work
on outdoor dining and parking in the “Upper Village”, met with Croton
author Alan Pakain who wrote an excellent book called “Community Risk
Management” and looks forward to sharing some of it with the Board; sat
in on a meeting with the “Hudson Valley Gateway Chamber” to hear a
briefing from the “Westchester Business Council” on a post pandemic
economy and replacement of lost power due to the closing of Indian Point;
sat in on briefings on the “American Rescue Act”; this week we should be
receiving guidance from the Treasury Department regarding “Non21

Village Trustees Board Meeting
May 17, 2021
Page 22

Entitlement Communities” (communities under 50,000) advising us of
what we need to do to access our funding; the “COVID Commemorative”
was held on May 7th, it was a wonderful turnout and thanked the Rotary
for making this all possible.
Mayor Pugh once again thanked Village Manager King for her outstanding
service and for her record of developing talent within our staff; thanked
Westchester County Executive George Latimer for his presentation on
what is going on at the County level, thanked all the advisory Boards for
their input on the issues we discussed this evening, thanked all the
residents who participated this evening as well and congratulated Bryan
Healy on his appointment as our new Village Manager.
Village Treasurer Bullock stated that she is pleased to advise that the
village received a refund of $61,821.70 from the “Department of Labor”
for the 2020 year.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote. 8:36pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary

_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

22

