Minutes of the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
on April 14, 2021
PRESENT: Christine Wagner, Chairman
Doug Olcott
James Tuman
Alex Morales
Mark Aarons
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
Mr. Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ms. Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting of April 14, 2021 to order at 8:06
p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) 1360 Albany Post Road Corp -- 1360 Albany Post Road -- Located in the Limited
Office O-1 District and Northern Gateway Overlay District and designated on the Tax
Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.10 Block2 Lots 12 and 13.
Request for a waiver under Village Zoning Code Section 193 from the requirement to
install a fire sprinkler system in the new commercial building which is required by Section
193-1 and 193-6 of the Village Code.
Chairman Wagner stated that the applicant for 1360 APR had requested an adjournment to the
next ZBA meeting. The Zoning Board members unanimously consented to the adjournment.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Eliza and Peter McCarthy --15 Mountain Trail-- Located in the RA-25 One-Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 68.13 Block 2 Lot 25. Request for a rear yard variance from
Section 230-33(A) for a proposed one-story addition.
PRESENT: Mary Ting, architect, Eliza and Peter McCarthy, homeowners
The McCarthys explained that they have lived in Croton for twenty years and thanked the board
for reviewing their application. They wish to add a one-story guest space and family room to
their home in the back corner of the property. Their house is far from other houses and the
addition is subtle and in character with the neighborhood (in the “Trails”).
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

The Zoning Board members agreed that the existing house is set far back on the property to
begin with, and it was helpful to see the document which showed where the house is located in
the context of other houses near the property lines. There were many letters of support from
the neighbors. The applicants also said they had spoken to the neighbors on Mt. Airy who did
not object but were not able to send in a written letter.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board agreed that the benefit sought by the applicant cannot practically and
aesthetically be achieved by a method other than the requested variance.
Ms. Ting stated that the garage is being demolished and the foundation of the proposed
addition will extend 7 feet into the rear yard. A variance request of less than what is being
proposed would make it difficult for a car to turn around in the driveway.
3. The requested rear yard variance is substantial.
The existing rear yard variance is substantial but the existing house is already set far back on
the property.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board agreed that there was still substantial space between the applicants and their
neighbors from the north. The proposed addition is at least 100 ft. away from any other
structure. Mr. Olcott pointed out that very few houses in this part of Croton (the Trails) probably
meet the setback requirements. The addition is only 994 sq. feet, and the current house is less
than 1200 sq. feet. No new garage is being built since there is no room.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing to the public, and seeing no comments from the
public, the hearing was closed.
MOTION: Mr. Morales noted for the record that the application was very well documented and
there was overwhelming support by the neighbors for this addition. He made a motion to grant
a rear yard variance of 23 ft, seconded by Mr. Olcott, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 all
in favor. ((ROLL CALL: Wagner AYE, Tuman, AYE, Olcott AYE, Morales AYE, Aarons no vote
due to computer audio difficulties)
a) Nathaniel Silver -- 7 Finney Farm Road --Located in the RA-40 One-Family residential
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
67.19 Block 2 Lot 2. Request for a variance from Section 230-40(B) for a proposed
accessory structure closer to the street than the primary structure.

2

Mr, Rustam Mehta, architect on behalf of the applicant, stated that the owners did not want to
expand the house with an addition because they wanted to retain the original house as it was.
The original house was built by one of the owner’s grandmother.
There is an existing variance for the garage which is close to the street (the street wraps around
the site), and it is due to this topography that any location of an accessory structure would
require a variance. The proposed accessory structure is a low-impact simple design which aims
to harmonize with the mid-century architecture of the house. The owners would like to have
some more space.
Chairman Wanger opened the public hearing, and seeing no comments from the public, the
hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
Mr. Olcott noted that the accessory structure almost has to be where it is proposed because the
road loops around and the land slopes downward. Where the accessory structure is proposed
to be located feels like it is in the backyard. As noted, the topography of the site would require
that any location for the accessory structure would require a variance.
2.

The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requesting variance, any other attempt would require a variance as well.

Mr. Gauldin stated that they also own 3 Finney Farm (which they are leaving undeveloped) and
wherever they place a structure it would be closer to the road than to the house.
3. The requested variance is not substantial in light of the lot size and layout and its
location on the lot.
The proposed accessory structure is small and has a low-impact design. The Zoning Board
agreed that the property is unique and the owners were using the space as best as they could
with the proposed structure.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The proposed structure has no plumbing and will be used as an outdoor dining space. It is
slightly higher on grade and captures some of the views of the river that one cannot see from
the house.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
3

MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant the variance for a proposed accessory structure
closer to the street than the primary structure, seconded by Mr. Tuman, and the motion carried
by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Wagner AYE, Tuman, AYE, Olcott AYE, Morales AYE, Aarons
no vote due to audio technical difficulties),
c) Maria DiCairano-- 4 Kuney Street -- Located in the RA-25 One-Family Residential District
and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.17 block 3
Lot 37. Request for a front yard variance from Section 230-33(A) for a proposed open porch
and a variance from 230-33(A) for floor area ratio.
PRESENT: Ms. Maria DiCairano, homeowner, and Mr. John Power, architect
Ms. DiCairano explained that she would like to create an office space in order to work from
home and also would like to create an accessory apartment for her parents when they return to
Croton at some point in the future.
Mr. Power explained that the variance request is for a front yard variance of 5.6 feet for the
open porch and a variance for the FAR due to the overall construction and expansion. The
main issue with the lot is that the lot size is half of what the regulations are for this zoning district
(RA-9); the front yard has a requirement of 40 feet on a lot size that is 12,500 and is supposed
to be 25,000. This also causes the FAR problem.
Mr. Power noted that the actual footprint is the same (going up) for a full second floor with
bedrooms.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comment from the public, the
public meeting was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
There are two doors on the one porch--one for the entrance to the house, and the other
entrance is for the home office. The two entrances look better constructed on one porch than
having two separate porches.
The Zoning Board of Appeals members agreed that the proposed addition and porch is in
character with the neighborhood and an improvement to the house.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.

4

The Zoning Board agreed that due to the COVID pandemic, it was preferable to have a home
office and therefore understood why the porch and hence the two entrances would be
beneficial. Because the lot size is half the size of the regulated size, the proposed addition and
FAR creates the need for a variance.
3. The requested variance for the FAR is substantial; the requested front yard variance is
not.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
As pointed out by Mr. Power, this property has half of the required lot size and creates the need
for a variance for the FAR and the front yard setback.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a front yard variance of 6 feet, and .03 FAR
variance, seconded by Mr. Morales, and the motion carried by a vote all in favor, 5-0. (ROLL
CALL: Wagner AYE, Tuman, AYE, Olcott AYE, Morales AYE, Aarons AYE)
d) Joe Lippolis of Berkshire Hathaway Home Services, representing Warren Koch Jr.
and Julie Huston- (property owners) -368 South Riverside Avenue -- Located in the C-2 District
and Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay District and designated on the Tax Maps of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.3 Block 1 Lot 71. Request for a variance from
Village Zoning Code Section 230-20.3 B(3)(a)[1] to have a dwelling unit on the first floor behind
commercial space but in an existing accessory building instead of the primary building, for side
and rear yard variances from Section 230-35 for the existing accessory building, and for an offstreet parking variance from Sections 230-35 and 230-20.3 B(3)(d)[1].
Mr. Lippolis explained that there has been a separate accessory structure building which has
been used as a residential unit behind a commercial building. He is requesting a variance for
residential use that is not in the primary commercial building. The interpretation from the
Engineers’ office is that this is a pre-existing use in a pre-existing setback and therefore no
setback variance is required. Both buildings existed prior to 1931 and therefore legally nonconforming with respect to setback requirements.
The new rezoning of the Harmon/South Riverside Avenue/Gateway District allows for mixed-use
with residential in the rear of the same building. This rear building (“cottage”) is not in the same
building. Once the variance is granted for residential use not in the primary commercial
building, the applicant will need to go to the Village Board for a mixed-use permit. Mr. Wegner
stated that in a review of the file, it was discovered that a variance had been granted for parking
on-site, so no off-street parking variance was required.

5

The Zoning Board members discussed the request for the variance for residential use of the
cottage behind the commercial storefront, and decided that they would like to consult with the
Village Attorney.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes of March 14, 2021, seconded by Mr.
Aarons, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 with one abstention due to Mr. Olcott not at the
March meeting.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:50 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

6

