Minutes of the
Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on
Wednesday, May 12, 2021
PRESENT: Christine Wagner, Chairman
James Tuman
Alex Morales
Mark Aarons
Doug Olcott
ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, VB Liaison
Len Simon, VB Liaison
1. Chairman Wagner opened the meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeal at 8:06 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Joe Lippolis of Berkshire Hathaway Home Services, representing Julie Huston
and Warren Koch (Property Owners)-- 368 South Riverside Avenue -- Located in
the C-2 District and Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.3
Block 1 Lot 71. Request for a variance from Village Zoning code Section 23020.3B)3)(a)[1] to have a dwelling unit on the first floor behind commercial space
but in an existing accessory building instead of the primary building, for side and
rear yard variances from Section 230-35 for the existing accessory building, and
for an off-street parking variance from Sections 230-35 and 230-20.3B(3)(d)[1]
Present: Joe Lippolis, Berkshire Hathaway Home Services
The Zoning Board of Appeals members agreed that the variance request is for an area
variance, not a use variance because residential use in a commercial building in the Gateway
district is allowable, however this existing accessory structure with residential use is not in the
same building.
The Zoning Board of Appeals members concurred that no side and rear yard variances are
required or necessary because the existing building is legally non-conforming.
Parking Variance: The Zoning Board noted that two parking spots had been waived by the
Planning Board when the Green Growler was located in the commercial building space. Two
spaces were allocated for commercial use. No one in the commercial building is using that
parking space, so one parking space is allocated for residential use, the other space for
commercial use. It is the space that is allocated for commercial use that will be waived.

The Zoning Board agreed that it is essential to keep the alleyway clear for access and egress.
The parking space located at the side of the cottage should be designated as residential
parking.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments from the public, closed
the public hearing.
MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant the area variance for residential use in a detached
building behind a commercial building, waive one parking space, and noted that the existing
setbacks are non-conforming and no variances are required for setbacks. Mr. Tuman seconded
the motion, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL: Wagner YES,
Tuman YES, Aarons YES, Olcott YES, Morales YES)
b) 1360 Albany Post Road Corp--1360 Albany Post Road -- Located in the
Limited Office O-1 District and Northern Gateway Overlay District and designated
on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.10 Block 2
Lots 12 and 13. Request for a waiver under Village Zoning Code Section 193
from the requirement to install a fire sprinkler system in the new commercial
building which is required by Section 193-1 and 193-6 of the Village Code.
Application adjourned from April Zoning Board of Appeals meeting.
The Zoning Board reviewed the letter that the Assistant Village Engineer had written regarding
the discussion with the Fire Chief and the applicant about the proposed mitigations.
The conditions itemized in the letter are as follows:
1. That, the decision is based on the response of the applicant and documents submitted in
support of the application for an appeal, which includes a letter dated May 1, 2021
submitted by Mr. Hernandez, architect for the applicant, and a letter dated May 11, 2021,
written to the Zoning Board of Appeals, by the Assistant Village Engineer;
2. That, ⅝” type x wallboard shall be provided throughout the building;
3. That, an NFPA 72 compliant alarm system is installed in the building;
4. That, a sprinkler system complying with NFPA 13 except for water supply requirements
is installed in the building;
5. That, there shall be no change in the current use of the building as a garden center.
Mr. Hernandez stated that the owner would like to move forward with the project and had
agreed to all the mitigations and conditions that were discussed with the Fire Chief and the
Assistant Engineer.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing for comments, hearing no comments from the
public, Chairman Wagner closed the public hearing.

2

The Zoning Board members expressed appreciation for all the work completed by the Assistant
Engineer, Fire Chief, and applicants.
MOTION: Chairman Wagner made a motion for a waiver from Section 193 as noted with the
above conditions, Mr. Morales seconded the motion, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0
(ROLL CALL: Wagner YES, Tuman YES, Aarons YES, Olcott YES, Morales YES)
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The April 14, 2021 Zoning Board of Appeals minutes were unanimously approved by a vote of
5-0.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:48
p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

3

