MINUTES – Croton Sustainability Comm. (SC) – 7:00 PM Sunday, June 10, 2021 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Niall Kelleher
Bernie Yozwiak

Absent:
Jon Katz
Len Simon

Joel Gingold
Brian Pugh
Dan Columbini

[Bracketed] text meand subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: This meeting was focused on how to spend the $110K in NYSERDA grants.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants
We reached the 5,000 point level in the last week of May. We have not yet received formal
notification, but the program’s online Scorecard verifies our score. Our new CEC coordinator
(Eleanor Peck) assured Lindsay that Croton has won a $70K grant. Due to the way NYSERDA
makes such announcements (i.e., in large batches, not individually) we may not get a written
award notification until July. We had received such notifications on the other $40K ($20K +
$10K + $5K + $5K) of grants on May 26. By 8/26/21, we must submit applications describing
the projects for which we want to use those funds.
- Washington Engine firehouse projects
Consensus was attained on using most (possibly all) of the grant funds on two projects:
- Rooftop solar - NYSERDA requires that it be municipally-owned, so leasing, PPA, and
community solar are out. Ecogy is helping with design, etc. but will not sell a system to us. Due
to the dollar cost, Janine indicated the job will need to be subject to public bid. Separate from
any grants, Ecogy wants to install a power storage system consisting of 3 Tesla PowerWalls
and a demand control system to clip peaks from variations in rooftop solar output and cycling of
the ASHPs. That system would cost us nothing and be owned by Ecogy, which would pay us
~$1K/yr to be its “guinea pig” as it tweaks its A.I. software via operation at the firehouse.
By adding a fence along ~300 feet of the firehouse’s parapet, the original 21.9 kWp design may
be boosted to 34.8 kWp by allowing more panels to be installed. Such a system could produce
nearly all the kWh needed once ASHPs are installed. Doing so, however, pushes the cost for
PV to $70K, or a bit higher. Brian indicated that the Village may be willing to cover the cost of
the fence. If not, we may need to use some (or all) of one of the $5K grants to do so.
- ASHPs – They would replace most oil heat with electricity from the solar rooftop. The building
already has 5 ASHPs (for the large meeting room, office, nearby rooms) but they are only used
for cooling at this time. We would install 3 (or more) to heat the garage, plus (maybe) strip
electric heaters for the rest rooms, bar, and coat storage. A control system to maximize use of
the ASHPs (and minimize oil heat) would be included. Total cost is looking like ~$30K, with a
1

possible need for one of the $5K grants. To get to $30K will require that both our $10K and
$20K grants be used.
- HPWH
Use of grant money as an added incentive for anyone (whether LMIs or early adopters) is offthe-table due to legal issues.
Assuming they are not consumed by the Washington firehouse projects, one of the $5K grants
could be used to install HPWHs at the Muni Bldg and DPW (both are now electric resistance).
Various DHW options for the firehouse were discussed, but may not fit into the budget. We
should know better once we have the solar and ASHP budgets worked out.
- Solar Projects
See above for the Washington Engine firehouse solar rooftop status.
On the train station canopy, we await SolSystems’ geotech report, due the week of 6/14/21.
On the DPW canopy for its front parking area (~197 kWp), we await a report from Con Ed on
the feeder voltage spike issue.
On the Croton Landing Park canopy (~350 kWp), the Assembly’s Environmental Conservation
Committee (ECC) never reviewed the Galef-Woerner bill to allow solar canopies over parking
lots at parks. By the first week of June, there were 12 co-sponsors, one of which (Patricia Fahy
of Albany) is on the ECC. Thank you to Joel for tracking/pushing the legislation. We will shortly
do a post-mortem. For now, Len is reviewing the 69-page handbook on securing an exemption.
Our interns are examining parking lots at State parks to see if any have shade structures that
are functionally the same as canopies re: impact on a park’s space. If so, we may be able to
seek a finding that a solar canopy is an “amenity” instead of a “change”.
- Reports
NYSERDA has yet to respond to our multiple queries on use grant funds for RECs, B10, or
offsets. We agreed to put off further discussion of those options pending a response.
- Communications
Nothing to report.
- Recruitment/Outreach
Nothing to report.
- New business / other issues
As we approach the end of the “low hanging fruit” options for cutting municipal GHG, we
discussed what other projects may be worth pursuing. There was general consensus on adding
more EVs. Brian indicated that would be done in any case, perhaps one a year as gasoline
vehicles are retired. Support was expressed for more EV chargers, with a discussion of locating
in parks, DPW parking lot, and other municipal sites. A push to get rooftop solar installed at a
2

few large private sites (e.g., former car dealership near Mex-To-Go) was mentioned. Support for
tree planting and another community garden was expressed. Niall indicated that there was
presently insufficient interest in a 3 rd garden, but that may change as COVID concerns recede.
Regarding alternative truck fuels, Niall will be attending a webinar on methanol as an option.
Bernie showed us a spreadsheet he developed on calculating GHG and $ savings of specific
projects.
Date for our next meeting was not set, pending clarifications on costs for aspects of the
Washington firehouse projects. Lindsay and Jon are working on designs and estimates.
One more meeting will likely be needed before we break for summer.
---------

3

