MINUTES – Croton Sustainability Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, July 11, 2021 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Brian Pugh
Bernie Yozwiak
Jon Katz

Absent:
Joel Gingold
Len Simon
Dan Columbini

Niall Kelleher
(excused, wife’s birthday)

[Bracketed] text mean subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: The Village will no longer provide its zoom account for committee meetings.
Thank you to Dan Colombini for allowing us to use his zoom account for this meeting.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants
All four of the $70K grants (each requiring at least 5,000 CEC points to win) for the Mid-Hudson
region have now been claimed. Hastings got to 5,500 points in mid-May. We got to 5,000 two
weeks later. Bedford reached 5,000 during the week of June 21, and Dobbs Ferry did so on
June 25. Had we not moved quickly on Grid Rewards, Community Solar 2.0, and the expedited
purchase of a 3rd municipal EV, we would likely have missed a $70,000 grant.
The next closest Mid-Hudson competitor was the City of Beacon with 4,900. Ossining Town (on
June 25) had 4,000 points. Several others in Westchester were in the 3,000-4,000 range. The
other 23 Westchester municipalities in this program do not appear to be seeking CEC grants.
For perspective: there are 1,607 municipal governments (village, town, city, county) in NY
State, of which 626 (39%) participate in CEC, 354 (22%) have done something (not necessarily
of consequence), and 54 (3.4%) are in the Mid-Hudson region. In the State, only those in our
County have reached the 5,000 point level. A handful of municipalities in the rest of the State
have secured 2,000 or more points.
Our final total for 5 grants will be $110K ($70K + $20K + $10K + $5K +$5K). Pursuing our
residential HPWH program could get us a third $5K grant (see below). We were formally
notified on May 25 that we’re eligible for $40K of those grants.
Applications to NYSERDA describing how we will use the $40K are due Aug. 26. Lindsay
expects to submit them by the end of July. The application for the $70K grant will then be due
within 3 months of its formal notification, which has not yet occurred.
- Washington Engine firehouse projects
Since our 6/10/21 meeting, Jon and Lindsay have been developing designs and budgets for:
- a 34.8 kWp solar rooftop at the Washington Engine firehouse (to include a 166-foot 36” high
railing atop the building’s low parapet)

1

- a ~50,000 Btuh air-source heat pump (ASHP) installation in the firehouse’s garage.
Regarding that PV system, various issues with ownership, bidding, and the investment tax
credit (ITC) made financial configuration very difficult. Many options were examined, with the
end result being that we may need to spend most of our grants on it. Croton Energy Group
(CEG) agreed to quote on what we can get for $70K-$90K, and will tour the site 7/15/21.
Impacting cost and capacity is a code requirement for a safety railing atop the existing parapet.
Panels cannot be located within 10’ of the parapet without a railing, but can be sited within 6’
with a railing. The difference is almost 13 extra kWp of output (34.8 with, and 21.9 without).
Quotes obtained by Jon on just the materials for a pipe-style railing started at ~$12K. Ecogy
models $90/LF for railings, which yields ~$15K we don’t have in the budget.
Jon is nailing down realistic costs for the ASHP system for the firehouse garage. An initial
estimate was $70K, which he felt was unreasonable. He committed to getting us a realistic
quote by July 23. If the cost is too high, we may need to forgo installation of new ASHPs until
another grant (maybe private) is secured. If ~$10K is available, it might instead cover the cost
of a system to integrate the existing ASHPs with the existing hydronic system.
The committee supported moving ahead with PV, even if that meant forgoing ASHPs for now.
Unrelated to the grants, Ecogy may bankroll and install a power storage system (on the
firehouse’s north exterior wall) under a deal for demand control services. It would cut peak
demand charges from PV variations and ASHP cycling, and yield small savings.
- HPWH
If a $5K grant remains available after bankrolling the firehouse work, heat pump water heaters
(HPWH) would replace electric resistance units at the DPW and Municipal Buildings.
Regarding a possible HPWH at the firehouse, Dan reviewed the Village Engineer’s finding on
an issue impacting its sizing and practicality. Firehouse personnel wanted to convert the
women’s room into a decontamination shower and the men’s room into a unisex rest room.
Doing so would, however, violate the building code as applied to the firehouse. Depending on
the quote we get for the PV, we may not have grant money for that HPWH, in any case.
A third $5K grant (in addition to the $110K already secured) may, however, become available
for our residential HPWH program, but only after at least 10 installations have been completed.
We’ll look at that option after the dust settles on the present grant work.
- Solar Projects
See above for the Washington Engine firehouse solar rooftop project.
On the train station canopy, SolSystems’ geotech report arrived on June 21. No toxic or
hazardous waste was found below the blacktop, but the landfill that was found appears to be
corrosive to steel. Sol says they routinely find corrosive soil, and the extra cost to deal with it
would be small. Issues arose with re-locating the battery to the north end of the parking lot (from
the south end), but Croton’s fire department felt that would be OK. Brian is getting an opinion on
it from the County’s emergency management agency.

2

On the DPW canopy for its front parking area (~197 kWp), we continue to await a report from
Con Ed on the feeder voltage spike issue that suspended development of that project.
On the Croton Landing Park canopy (~350 kWp), Joel, Len, and Lindsay have been reviewing
options for overcoming the park alienation issue. Len’s report on securing a Croton-only
exemption is under “Reports” below. By the June 10th end of the State’s legislative session, a
total of 21 Assembly reps had sponsored/co-sponsored the law (A.6838) we sought for a
blanket exemption for canopies over any park parking lots. However, the Assembly’s
Environmental Conservation Committee never reviewed it. [On 7/14/21, Joel found the bill now
has 39 co-sponsors and will confer with Assby. Sandy Galef’s staff on next steps.]
Regarding seeking a special exemption for Croton, Brian and others agreed that we should
instead push ahead on A.6838. A special exemption would involve a surveyor and an outside
attorney. Based on its experience, Ecogy estimated the costs for a surveyor to specify the
ground disturbed during installation of the canopies and an easement for underground wiring to
serve them would $5K to $10K. A like amount of legal fees would be involved. Such upfront
costs (totaling ~$20K) would need to be reimbursed to Ecogy if the exemption was not granted.
- Reports
Len summarized his review of the actions required to secure a Croton-only exemption from the
park alienation law. He reviewed the 69-page park alienation exemption handbook, noting that
some minor alterations to parks (e.g., adding batting cages) may be considered “incidental” and
not require legislated exemptions. In discussions with officials in the State’s Parks Dept. (which
can advise, but has no authority on the matter), it became obvious that we were on our own.
Trying to declare a solar canopy as “incidental” could get us in legal trouble. [Interest was
expressed re: the Handbook, and Lindsay sent it to all members 7/14/21]. Len will look into a
claim (made by a State Parks Dept. person) that an exemption for a solar canopy had already
been secured by Yorktown. If it exists, he will get us details. Lindsay believes that claim may,
however, be based on a misleading May press release from Sen. Harckham’s office.
Brian felt that the issue should be brought to the attention of the Westchester Municipal Officials
Association (WMOA) and the NY Committee of Mayors (NYCOM). Len suggested a letter on
the matter be sent to the Assembly speaker, signed by many mayors. Lindsay will follow up with
Brian on how best to do so. Joel will mention our bill during a 7/14/21 meeting of CoHOPE.
On 7/3/21, Lindsay spoke with Wyldon Fishman, director of the NY Solar Energy Society
(NYSES) regarding the park alienation law. She concurred that changing it would be an uphill
battle. She has been trying – for 6 years – to get a law exempting solar installations from
homeowner association (HoA) regulations. [Joel found that her bill had recently passed both
houses, and was now awaiting Gov. Cuomo’s signature. Joel is looking into any lessons that
may be gleaned from that experience, such as whether/how our bill could be channeled through
a different Assembly committee, as suggested by Brian.]
Dan reported on a GSHP site feasibility tool (called “Westchester GeoPossibilities”) developed
by his firm. It is being featured in a July 22 webinar sponsored by SW, NYSERDA, and others.

3

- Communications
Many emails and a zoom with Eleanor Peck, our present CEC coordinator, have been more
helpful with NYSERDA than her two predecessors, but she is still quite limited by its byzantine
rules and incompetence. Omissions needing correction were found in the NYSERDA contract
we must sign to get the grants, and the application spreadsheet has at least one formula error.
We await revised/corrected program documentation but no date has been given for its delivery.
- Recruitment/Outreach
Pursuant to supporting a blanket park solar canopy exemption, our interns are checking if
parking lots at any State parks had shade structures (essentially canopies without solar).
A question arose on our possible need for a PR associate (not a full-time committee member).
Brian and others felt we were doing enough, but more exposure couldn’t hurt if doing so did not
burden members. He suggested finding someone with social media experience to work on the
Village’s Facebook page, which he indicated was presently text-heavy. A person with graphics
experience (e.g., with a program called CANVA) could create a page for our activities using pics
we already have. He suggested conferring with Thomas Morzello, Bryan Healy’s new assistant.
Lindsay agreed to do so and to query our interns (who often use Facebook) on that option.
- New business / other issues
None were raised.
Date for our next zoom was set for Sunday, July 25 at 10:30 AM. It will be a working meeting
focused on quotes for the PV and ASHP systems to settle how we will spend our grant money.
Our next formal meeting will be Sunday, Sept 26 at 10:30 AM. If by then all are OK with it being
in-person, it will be held in the conference room at Lindsay’s home at 221 Cleveland Drive.
Otherwise, it will be another zoom sponsored by Dan. Everyone have a nice summer!

4

