Planning Board Meeting Minutes
Zoom Video Conference
June 22, 2021
7:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan (present until 7:15 p.m. then absent due to technical difficulties)

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of June 22, 2021 to order at 7:00 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a)

Regan Development Corporation (contract vendee)-- 41-51 Maple Street (aka “Katz
Property”) --Section 78.12 Block 3 Lot 3)--Application for site plan approval for a
multifamily residential development consisting of 33 apartments within two 2-story
buildings.

Chairman Luntz asked Mr. Haynes to give an update on the NYSDOT meeting with the traffic
consultant for the Regan property.
Mr. Haynes stated that they discussed the crosswalk, sidewalks and the traffic light at Municipal
Place and that the DOT representatives were very accommodating, professional and interested
in hearing about the issues.
With respect to the safety of the crosswalk for school-aged children, the traffic consultant had
proposed a crosswalk closer to the complex instead of near the bus stop (which would require
children to go south then north to walk to school) instead of two crosswalks close together on a
state road. There was a discussion about the recommendation to create a sidewalk or a path
on the same side of the complex.
Mr. Jamie Easton, civil engineer for Regan Development, stated that they are hoping to have
some of the technical answers for the next meeting regarding relocation of the bus stop to the
north side and have a combination of bus stop and crosswalk, or a sidewalk all the way to Wells
Avenue.

The other issue discussed was to look at the traffic optimization feature which optimizes
conditions at all approaches. Mr. Easton said Prime Companies would be willing to work with
the DOT to install a modem and implement new signal timings for an updated signal device at
the intersection so that the DOT can include this installation with their next long-range plan.
MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to call for a public hearing for July 27, 2021, seconded by
Mr. Kauderer, and the motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. The Planning Board agreed that
when meetings resume in-person, the meeting time will be at 8:00 p.m. instead of the earlier
7:00 p.m. time that had been set for the Zoom meetings.
The Planning Board unanimously approved the motion that the applicant submit the $5500 for a
review by the Village’s consulting engineering firm Chazen Companies.
Chairman Luntz noted that this application has received a great deal of correspondence about
the requirement included in the RFP for this development to retain a vegetative buffer between
the complex and Wells Avenue properties. The applicant was asked to describe their intention
for the proposed vegetative buffer and whether it will be the same as it exists now or different
and what amount of grading would be required for this buffer.
Mr. Haynes reiterated that there were a lot of emails on creating privacy between Wells Avenue
and the complex with the buffer zone, and at the same time the Planning Board had asked
about providing some green space in the complex since the apartments have no patios or
outdoor spaces for the residents of the complex. Chairman Luntz noted that the applicant had
proposed to densify trees in the buffer zone.
Mr. Easton pointed out that they (the applicant) were trying to address the increased outdoor
space, the increased landscaping for the buffer zone, and the connectivity of the complex to
have children walk in a northerly direction (not south then north).
Buffer zone: Mr. Easton noted that they had doubled the number of trees, (with spacing
appropriate for growth), and there was a two -tiered landscape approach with the evergreens
facing towards the homes. A small hedge row was created that blocks the view of the parking.
They had discussed a retaining wall but this is not a viable option because of the soil conditions
and because the necessary wall height would be too high. The applicants believe that a slope
with vegetation is better than a retaining wall since the slope’s stability would be improved with
vegetation.
Mr. Kauderer stated that the residents’ main complaint was that they were expecting that the
existing vegetation was going to remain in the 50 ft buffer. He stated that although this looks
like better screening than what was there, he believes it behooves the applicant to convince the
neighbors that this is, in fact, better than what was there. He stated that a rendering of what it is
going to look like would be a good idea. Mr. Easton responded that he will request the applicant
prepare a visual of the park and this buffer area. He stated that they understood the neighbors’

2

legitimate concerns, and that the applicant would like to demonstrate to the residents that this
won’t adversely affect them. They will take a look at this with possible additional screening.
The Planning Board discussed some of the retaining wall height and location options that would
lessen the disturbance and reduce impacts to the neighbors and Mr. Easton stated they will
explore the options.
Chairman Luntz noted that although this is not a public hearing at this time, there were a lot of
correspondence from the public, and if there is someone from the public who like to speak for a
minute or two, the Planning Board would entertain those comments.
Kate and Kevin Bellingham, 7 Wells Avenue, stated they had sent a statement, and although
they appreciate the compromise and welcome a more densely vegetative buffer zone, from their
point of view, the 50 ft buffer of trees was already a compromise. The Katz property is
completely flush with their property and it is a safety issue for them and they consider it a
violation of what they agreed to. Ms. Bellingham agreed that evergreens would be more than
what we have now. She referenced the discussion about increased outdoor space for the
apartments, and she stated that this space should not come into the fifty-foot buffer zone. The
applicant should place the increased green space for the complex on the existing footprint, not
into the margin of the 50 ft. setback.
Lisa Morsberger, 3 Wells Avenue, stated that she agrees with the Bellinghams’ statement, and
reiterated that the 50 ft. buffer zone was already a compromise to begin with, and the neighbors
feel they were misled given there was a discussion about changing what is existing right now in
that buffer zone. It was her understanding that the 50 ft. buffer zone was not going to be
disturbed at all and that some of the trees have been there for a long time. She believes that
evergreens are better for screening.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board does not have an answer right now about the
buffer zone and is taking the application under consideration. The Planning Board is reviewing
the vegetative buffer zone and discussing it. Mr. Werner, of AKRF, stated that the code states
the setback will remain vegetative in the 50 ft. setback area, but does not specify whether that
means to retain existing vegetation or to have an existing vegetative buffer.
Mr. Kauderer urged the neighbors to be patient and look at the rendering when it is submitted.
He believes the view will be better blocked and to see what the developer comes up with. He
stated that the Planning Board hears what the neighbors are saying and they are trying to solve
the problem.
The public hearing will take place on July 27, 2021 at 8:00 p.m.
b)

99 Cleveland Drive LLC -- 8 Olcott Avenue (Sec. 79.9 Block 2 Lot 47.01) --Application
for Minor Site Plan approval for new single-family dwelling (formerly 99 Cleveland Drive)

3

Mr. Doran explained that he had formerly presented this minor site plan as 99 Cleveland Drive;
the proposed house faced Cleveland Drive. He heard the concerns from the neighbors, and he
decided that if the house came off of Olcott Avenue it would be easier to develop the lot with
swales on either side of the house and no steep slopes required. The house would meet all
zoning setbacks. He stated that he hopes this plan eases some of the neighbors’ concerns.
The Village Engineer noted that in the previous design the proposed house had required a lot of
regrading, whereas with this house the grading remains the same--the house is on grade on
both sides and rear yard.
Mr. Doran said that the materials would remain the same as described previously--vinyl siding
(light gray with darker gray on the gables), white trim, white garage door, and the house would
be solar ready. To retain privacy for both the neighbor and the owner, the windows were kept
high.
The Village Engineer noted that he and DPW met with some of the residents who had
expressed concern about water coming down from Olcott and DPW has agreed to install a curb
alongside to prevent water from jumping the curb. Mr. Yurek, of 10 Olcott, stated that he had
spoken with Mr. Doran, and they liked the new plan and appreciated his coming over and
discussing the proposed changes. At a later date, Mr. Doran stated that he will work with the
neighbors on the placement of bushes and trees or screening.
MOTION: Upon reviewing the draft resolution, Mr. Krisky made a motion to grant minor site
plan approval, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan
not available via Zoom).
c) Moore, Christopher and Karen -- 6 Loconto Street (Sec. 68.17 Block 3 Lot 31)-Application for two-lot subdivision creating one new building lot.
Mr. Mastromonaco, consulting engineer for the subdivision application, explained that the
resident owns a home on Loconto which borders Maple Avenue. This property is in the RB
zone with 5000 feet as the minimum lot size. At present, the applicant is applying for subdivision
approval for a two-lot subdivision, although they are showing a proposed house that would
possibly be built on the vacant lot. The proposed house would be located in a notch cut out in
the hillside with approximately 2000 sq. ft of living area., a garage (either in front with a variance
or under the house), and decks on two sides.
They had looked at possible scenarios for the driveway access and parking options. Because
Maple Street is a state road, driveway access is through the NYSDOT.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion for the Planning Board to declare itself Lead Agency
and refer the application to involved agencies for their consent and recommendations (WC
Planning, and NYSDOT), and refer to the Waterfront Advisory Committee to review the CAF,
and call for a public hearing on July 27, 2021, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried
all in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan had no access to the internet).

4

Ms. Anne-Marie Reynolds, 174 Maple, stated she was mostly concerned about the entry to her
property and concerned about access to 129 without impediments. She would like to see two
autonomous driveways, with the property line delineated. Chairman Luntz asked Mr.
Mastromonaco to take a look at this and provide other options. Ms. Reynolds also stated that
screening and trees would be appreciated.
d) Gomes, Davide--208 Cleveland Drive (Sec. 68.17 Block 3 Lot 5)--Application for Minor
Site Plan approval for new single-family dwelling.
PRESENT: Mr. Keith Staudohor, of Cronin Engineering, and applicant, Mr. Davide Gomes
Mr. Staudohor explained that this lot had an existing house which has been demolished and a
new house is being proposed which meets all zoning requirements. The lot is flat with no steep
slopes and is in a similar location as the original house. They are proposing to run a sewer line
across the street on Cleveland Drive and hooking up to 205 Cleveland (an easement agreement
will be drawn up).
Mr. Gomes stated in response to a question about asbestos and an underground oil tank, that
the underground tank was removed. The Village Engineer stated that prior to demolition, they
had received the required asbestos survey report. The existing septic tank had been
abandoned which is allowable by county code.
The Village Engineer noted that this lot is an existing small lot and that a lot that is less than
required can be developed.
The Planning Board noted that the proposed plan is compliant with the FAR requirements. If
the area over the garage or a basement is made for habitable space, the owner would have to
get ZBA approval for exceeding the FAR, but as presented, the proposed house is zoning
compliant. It was also noted that only six of the trees in front of the property will be removed.
The applicant stated that the proposed house is a modular home, farmhouse style with four
bedrooms, 3.5 bathrooms, two-car garage, front porch and solar ready.
Chairman Luntz noted that the board had received a number of correspondance from
neighbors. The Planning Board will review the architectural conditions as noted in the Village
Code.
Ms. Gina Gomes, applicant, stated that she understood that neighbors had concerns about the
design and scale of the house, but she and her husband think that Cleveland Drive has an
eclectic group of houses that range in sizes from one to two stories, and it is difficult to put the
street in a specific design category. She mentioned that they had submitted a photographic
montage which includes different designs in other neighborhoods in Croton that have different
styles of houses--e.g. at the end of Cleveland Drive which is a modern house design
surrounded by capes and ranches, and a modern style house at 161 Maple surrounded by older
5

style house designs. They believe that their house will add value to the property and the
neighborhood.
The Planning Board reviewed the Architectural factors as stated in section 230-70 B 12 of the
Village Code:
1.

Site development: relative to the site, the proposed house meets all of zoning
requirements, and therefore is not an issue.
Chairman Luntz stated that the board had read all the correspondence carefully and
agreed that it would be helpful to have a rendering of both the house and the
neighboring houses on each side in order to see the distance between them and any
proposed screening. The Planning Board recommended that the applicant consider
screening on both sides given that this is a two-story house and both neighbors have
single story houses. Mr. Gomes stated he can add screening trees and will consult a
landscape designer that he has on his staff.

2. Building design
i)
Scale and proportion: The proposed house is a farmhouse style, and different
than some of the neighbors, however, the Planning Board agreed that the
applicant has adequately shown that there are a variety of styles including the
mid-century styles, and the consensus of the Planning Board was that Croton
has enough diversity of architectural styles to warrant variety. The Planning
Board agreed that there isn’t an overall consistency of mid-century styles on
Cleveland Drive and did not find this house to be out of place on the street,
ii)
Setback and orientation: The applicant has demonstrated that it is code
compliant and the building is in almost the same location that the previous house
was.
iii)
Directional expression: The Planning Board agreed that it is different from other
houses on the block--not exclusively mid-century houses and not totally out of
character in the larger context in Croton across the board. There exist a variety of
styles and types throughout the village, and noted that there is an existing home
that sits on the corner (213 Cleveland) which initially had looked out of place but
now looks better as it has aged.
iv)
Windows and doors: The Planning Board agreed that the proportions are
different from some of the houses but similar to others.
v)
Roof form: The Planning Board agreed that there is enough diversity in that area
and it is not completely out of character.
vi)
Features and details: Not out of character
vii)
Wall materials: Not out of character
viii)
Lighting: Not out of character
ix)
Diversity of design: This house is different and adds to diversity of design
x)
Historic quality: This area has not been designated as an Historic area.

6

Chairman Luntz stated that although this house is not mid-century style, it is not completely out
of character with the village or some of the neighboring properties. The Planning Board would
like to see a more detailed landscape plan with screening possibilities and an easement for the
sewer. Mr. Haynes noted that he lives at Wells Avenue, and over time in this neighborhood of
mainly cape cod style homes, there have been improvements and an increasingly more eclectic
mix of houses. A majority of the Planning Board agreed that property owners are allowed to
build on their lots in the confines of the village code, but all wanted to see a landscape plan
approach to the front and the sides of the proposed house.
Chairman Luntz acknowledged that the board had received a lot of written correspondence.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, stated that he would like to see contextual photos of the
houses on either side, his being one of the houses next to the proposed new house.
The Planning Board members agreed that a montage would be a very helpful way to illustrate
the context.
Joe Biber, 204 Cleveland, lives adjacent to the proposed house and stated that the immediate
context is all one-story houses. He stated that the distinct context is in the immediate area, not
in the general context of an overall eclectic community. He asserted that it was incumbent
upon the Planning Board to be rigorous in its review.
He strongly disagreed that this area was like any other part of Croton--the properties on
Cleveland Drive are carefully sited, on a wooded lane with no lighting and no sidewalks.
Mr. Biber stated that the new house will loom over this area, and is the beginning of a new
housing market post-pandemic; he stated that with new development and increased tear-downs,
Cleveland Drive will lose its special rural character if this design is repeated on the block.
Mr. Biber stated that the answer is not screening, but the scale of the house. He stated that the
modest scale of homes in this block was being violated and is going in the wrong direction. He
expressed feeling greatly impacted and that the proposed house should not be considered as
just a building but rather should be considered as the setting of the woods, and the proposed
house radically changes the context of the other houses.
Mr. Streany, High Street, stated that his family has been in Croton for over 100 years, and that
his daughter Gina Gomes and son-in-law David Gomes are the prospective homeowners, and
would like to raise their family in the village. He expressed how upsetting it is that the neighbors
have been so unwelcoming and unneighborly.
Walter Schmidt, 205 Cleveland Drive, stated he lives across the street from 208 Cleveland, and
the previous house was in total disrepair. He is in the construction business and he knew he
couldn’t get equity out of the existing house given its deteriorated condition. He built 213
Cleveland, and when he built that home, 10 of the 28 homes were two story houses. The
applicant is obtaining a sewer easement through Mr. Schmidt’s property.
7

The meeting will continue at the July 13, 2021 meeting.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the June 8, 2021 Planning Board minutes, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan
unable to access Zoom meeting).
5. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
The Planning Board asked the Village Attorney about the temporary restraining order on the
Half Moon Bay Promenade. The Village Attorney stated that the revetment work can proceed,
but the restraining order is for the promenade work. There will be a preliminary hearing.
.
6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

8

