DRAFT Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, February 23rd, 2021
This meeting was held in person and online using Zoom.
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), D. Bennett (506), R. Pappas (404), J. Streany
(275), B. Powers (474), D. Vlad (318), R. Cusano (141), W. Skiba (267), K. Goldstein (576), G.
Tucci (284)
EXCUSED: P. Dinkler (150)
Department Members: W. Vlad (292), F. Streany (274), D. Kempter (484), J. Ferguson
(164), J. Kempter (478), F. Pusatere (248), B. Flynn (173), W. Gallagher (177), E. Walsh (295),
B. Pappas (408), L. Hannan (445)
Others in Attendance: Trustee Len Simon
Meeting Called to Order by: J. Munson with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of
Silence for Deceased Members at 20:00. This meeting dedicated to Past Captain and past
Warden Bob Spatta who passed away on 2/14/2021.
Special Orders of Business: Trustee Simon thanked all for their commitment and service.
Stated Village has a number of construction projects in the works, the Police Reform
recommendations are nearing completion and encourage members to get the COVID
vaccination.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes: Not done as they are not completed.
Bills and Communications:
•

•
•

•
•

Application for Active Membership in Washington Engine received for Erik Ambos,
awaiting favorable NYS Background Check. Motion J. Streany/2nd R. Cusano to approve
– CARRIED.
Application for Social Membership in Washington Engine received for Mike Mallory.
Motion J. Streany/2nd W. Skiba to approve – CARRIED.
Letter from Chemical Engine indicating John Donnelly went from Active to Social Status
at their 2/22/2021 meeting. All property has been returned to his Captain. Motion J.
Streany/2nd W. Skiba to approve – CARRIED.
Invitations received for Montrose and Yorktown Parades in June. Motion J. Karpoff/2nd
D. Vlad to attend both – CARRIED.
Letter from Village Manager King – tabled to New Business.

Reports of the Chiefs
J. Munson (2082)
Thanks to everyone for their commitment during recent storm standbys. Apparatus repairs
pending for E120 & TL44. Committee for new E118 reports apparatus is at dealer and finishing
touches being completed, expecting delivery in March.

DRAFT Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, February 23rd, 2021
J. Karpoff (2083)
Still working with DPW to repair/replace exterior lights at Harmon, replacement of a broken bay
door controller button for TL44’s bay and for E119’s bay and some other issues at Harmon.
Reports updates being made to Firefighter 1 checklist to ensure members are ready for the
class before they begin it. DES is offering a Pump Ops class which is full, 2 members signed up
for it. He also thanked all for their help giving Bob Spatta a proper send-off.
Question from R. Pappas about preparing members for FF1, J. Karpoff advised him to contact J.
Munson (Training Division). Question from K. Goldstein about snow removal at the north door
to Station 3. D. Bennett asked if anything can be done to prevent parking in front of Station 1
and to stop dangerous U-turns that frequently occur on that apron. A discussion followed,
Chiefs to follow-up with village. D. Vlad reports a few other issues at Station 3 including foul
odor from in men’s room, doors not closing right, temperature issues throughout firehouse and
snow removal concerns.
Reports of Committees
BY-LAWS Motion R. Pappas/2nd D. Bennett to send new proposal for Article 3.3 to committee
– CARRIED (Attachment A). A discussion followed about changing wording of all classes that
have been reformatted/renamed. Committee to investigate. Motion J. Streany/2nd W. Skiba to
send the attached (Attachment B) to the companies to vote on for the next regular Fire Council
Meeting – CARRIED. A discussion followed regarding out-of-district chief legalities, etc.
PARADES Motion D. Vlad/2nd R. Cusano to form a Parade Committee consisting of Chiefs and
1 Warden from each company – J. Karpoff to coordinate meeting per J. Munson – CARRIED.
LOSAP T. Dinkler reports he will be off quarantine soon and will complete 2020 LOSAP Report.
FUND DRIVE T. Dinkler reports 2021 mailer has gone out. Members are asked to look at it so
if someone asks about it, they are familiar with it. He will complete the 2020 report soon once
he can do so.
Unfinished Business:
J. Streany asked the status of the LOSAP Amendment from the Village Board. L. Simon will
report back to the Council.
New Business:
Letter read from Village Manager concerning recent purchases from storm standbys. J. Munson
to send a reply to her. (Attachments C & D).
Motion J. Streany/2nd J. Karpoff for the Council to purchase NYS Fire District Law books for all
five Companies and the three Chiefs – CARRIED.
Treasurer’s Report: No report

DRAFT Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, February 23rd, 2021
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad/2nd G. Tucci - CARRIED

M eeting Adjourned at 21:19.
M inutes Respectfully Subm itted By John M unson, Council Secretary on 2/ 26/ 21.

