MINUTES – Croton Sustainability Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, July 25, 2021 – via Zoom.us
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin

Absent:
(all others were excused due to
limited nature of this meeting)

Jon Katz

[Bracketed] text mean subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: None
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- Projects under NYSERDA CEC grants
The sole topic of the meeting was to update us on quotes/proposals we had on the Washington
firehouse PV and ASHP systems, and budgeting/paperwork thereof.
On the rooftop PV, Croton Energy Group (CEG) provided (July 12) a draft proposal that came in
at $75,786. [Lindsay subsequently verified with NYSERDA that the NY-SUN incentive of
$11,193 will be given to the contractor who will, in turn, deduct it, leaving a balance of $64,593.]
[Brian subsequently asked: “are we working with CEG as the prime contractor?” to which
Lindsay responded via email: “No. But they did provide a very competitive quote, and have
been helpful. They quickly walked the site, developed a good layout, and were happy to assist
on nailing down the railing issue. I expect to speak with them this week to firm up their proposal.
NYSERDA requires that a proposal (not necessarily that of the contractor we will use)
accompany our grant application. That does not tie us to that proposer in any way. Instead, it
demonstrates to NYSERDA that we've got a clear idea of costs, and that a professional has
reviewed the job and found it viable.
Once our application is accepted (which should happen fairly quickly, but who knows with
NYSERDA), we have three months to get final bids and choose a contractor so that we are then
‘ready to commence’ the job.”]
CEG’s quote, does not, however, include an allowance for the railing that must be added to the
parapet where it is only 12” high. Failing to do would shrink the system from 37kWp to 21.9
kWp. Jon had previously secured quotes (materials only) for 3 styles of railings that would meet
code. The cheapest was ~$12K with others ~$25K or higher.
[During a subsequent conference call (July 26) with Dan O’Connor and Frank Balbi, Lindsay
reviewed with them our plans for energy/carbon improvements, with a focus on how to deal with
the railing issue. Dan verified that we must install a railing, under both NYS Building Code and
OSHA regs. Frank felt it best if a professional railing contractor did the job, rather than DPW
staff. Frank agreed to have one of his guys look under the parapet’s metal flashing to see if it’s
OK to drill into it without creating water leakage issues. If so, the cheapest railing option may be
feasible, which may cost a total of $15K-$20K. If not, we may need to allocate ~$30K to
installing a non-invasive ballasted railing system.]
1

We had previously agreed to dedicate one of our $5K grants to installing HPWH at the Muni
and DPW buildings, bringing our base total spend to at least $85K, leaving (at best) $25K for
the ASHPs. The proposal Jon got from Taconic HVAC (a competitive firm) for the new garage
ASHPs was over $43K, not including some outdoor power wiring. Jon and Lindsay agreed that
wiring and materials could boost the new ASHP close to $50K.
They agreed, however, that a control system to integrate just the 5 existing ASHPs with the
existing hydronic system’s zone pumps should be feasible within our remaining grant funds.
To that end, Jon agreed to develop a scope of work (SOW) and system description that could
be used to secure a proposal for such a system. We need proposals (for both the PV and that
control system, but not the HPWH) to submit with our grant applications. Jon agreed to get that
proposal to Lindsay no later than Aug. 10. Our grant submissions must be received by
NYSERDA by COB Aug. 26.
[At this time, our budget looks like this:
Solar: $65K
Solar railing: $15K - $30K
ASHP control system: $10K (very rough guess, pending a quote)
HPWH: ~$5K
…which totals $95K to $110K.]
- NYSERDA grant issues
As previously indicated in an email to committee members, we finally got written confirmation of
our $70K grant on July 20. Deadline for that grant application is Oct. 20. However, because we
will be using all of that grant, plus part (maybe all) of our $20K grant for the solar, we will need
to submit CEG’s PV proposal with the $20K application by the Aug. 26 deadline. This is one of
many issues with how this grant program was designed.
While prepping our initial grant applications, Lindsay found mistakes (e.g., a formula error) and
omissions in the application spreadsheet. Even its auto-generated draft contract was flawed: it
contained typos, extraneous text and symbols, and was missing 12 lines of text from one
provision. As such, it could not be submitted to the Village attorney for approval.
An actual signed contract is not required for several months, but content approval is required
when the application is submitted. Otherwise, a grant may be significantly delayed (or denied)
due to contract negotiations. After much wrangling, a lot of wasted time, and several threats,
NYSERDA finally (July 20) provided a clean spreadsheet and draft contract for review.
It appears we were the first program participant to get to the point involving contract review, and
thus the first to uncover yet more bloopers in this grant program. Note that the flawed grant
application form was first provided to participants last February.
Jon and Lindsay concluded their discussions and signed off Zoom at 10:59 AM. No other
committee business transpired.

2

As previously set at our July 11 meeting, our next formal meeting will be Sunday, Sept. 26,
10:30 AM. Emailed updates will be provided in the interim.
- [Subsequent communication
While unrelated to the above, SolSystems answered (July 26) a question regarding a slight
reduction in the kWp output (from 4,700 kW to ~4,000) of the proposed train station canopy job,
as follows:
“Generally speaking, the reasons for the removal of portions of the panels are the following:
1. Setbacks from utility poles {in this case, along Veterans Plaza} – ConEd determined the
required setback to be 7.5’.
a. This includes the one that delivers power to the pay stations / cell tower.
2. The above, combined with the setback from the train station, requires subarrays to be
removed.
a. If even a few rows of a carport area need to be removed, that subarray in its entirety
must be removed due to how carports are designed structurally and electrically. This is why it
seems large blocks of areas seem to be removed {in the proposed final system layout}”.

3

