Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, August 2, 2021, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager King
Village Treasurer Tucker
Village Attorney Whitehead
Sec to the Manager Bryan Healy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a
5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$40,970.46
$7,863.32
$1,511.84
$6,895.10
$5,749.00

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Continuation of a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory #9 of 2021 to
delete Chapter 202 of the Village Code entitled “Tattoos”.
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that New
York State Health Codes are very strict on Tattoo Parlors, and we should also
be looking at this as an art form and supports repealing this law.
John Ealer, 5 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that this is a
mild form of expression and supports repealing this law.
Evan Perdomo-Cohen, owner of the Green Growler, 4 Croton Point Avenue,
Croton on Hudson, stated that he supports the Board repealing this law.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 2

E-Mail from Marie Considine, 48 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, asked that
the Board leave the law as it stands since the Board has not received a
request to open a “Tattoo Parlor” at this time.
Trustee Simon stated that he has looked at New York State’s regulations on
Tattoo Parlors and they are quite extensive, there is also a Westchester
County component, and he is comfortable with the Village repealing this law.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that if someone were interested in putting in a
Tattoo Parlor in Croton and saw that our law prohibits them, they might
consider going elsewhere and in lieu of New York State and Westchester
County regulations he is in support of repealing this.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #121-2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to delete Chapter 202 of the Village Code, Tattoos,
so as to allow tattooing within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2021 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
WHEREAS a public hearing was opened on July 19, 2021, and closed on August 2,
2021
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2021 to delete Chapter 202 of the Village
Code, Tattoos, to allow tattooing within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 8 of 2021.

2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 3

Motion to open a Public Hearing on the “Special Permit” application from
Croton Circle School for a day care center at 118 Maple Street was made by
Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved
with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Horowitz abstained from voting.
Marc Albrecht, 191 Cleveland Drive, questioned the legality of Trustee
Horowitz voting to schedule the public hearing while she abstained from the
other resolutions regarding this special permit application.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the scheduling of the public hearing
was not a substantive decision and was permissible.
Spencer Celente, 12 Mt. Airy Rd. Croton on Hudson, stated that he attended
the Croton Circle School, it was a great experience for him and gave him and
many other students an important academic foundation.
Ralph Croteau, 12 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that his son
attended Croton Circle School, it is a wonderful program and supports issuing
them the special permit.
Resolution #130-2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Horowitz abstained.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from the Croton Circle School for a day care center to be located at 119 Maple
Street, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees referred the application to the Planning Board on
July 6, 2021, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board reviewed the request and has submitted a memo in
support of the application; and
WHEREAS, on August 2, 2021, a public hearing was opened and closed,
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 4

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
issues a special use permit to the Croton Circle School for a day care center at 119
Maple Street.
4.

Policy
1

1A

1B

1C

1D

1E

2

CONSISTENCY REVIEW:

Village Board Review of Consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program for
an application from Hudson National Golf Club for an amended “Special Permit” and “Site
Plan” approval for modifications to their ancillary storage area
WAC RESPONSE
VILLAGE BOARD
DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

Restore, revitalize, and redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses
Existing planning and zoning documents
should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within
the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned
land at the Metro North Train Station,
including Village garage and bay area.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro North Train
Station, while facilitating public access to
bay area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the
municipality to encourage the mutual
cooperation and exchange of information
between governmental agencies involved
in clean-up of the Croton landfill and
Metro-North lagoon in order to develop
commercial use of resources found in the
coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant
site at the intersection of Route 9A and
Municipal
Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to

Applicable
Yes/No
No

Consistent
Yes/No

No

No

No

No

No

No

4

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 5

2A

3

4

5

5A

5B

5C

6
6A

coastal waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power
boats on the Hudson River and Croton
River and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters
that regulate boat traffic such a speed,
turbidity, safety, and mooring and sludge
disposal. Such controls will further
increase the compatibility of power boat
use with other forms of recreation use
within the coastal zone area.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of major ports is not
applicable to
Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the
strengthening of small harbors is not
applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate, except when such development
has special functional requirements or
other characteristics which necessitate its
location in other coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
The extension of water and sewer
distribution lines beyond areas currently
served should be undertaken cautiously
and with prudent regard for Village water
resources and the preservation of
environmental values in undeveloped
areas.
Limit proposed development within those
portions of the coastal zone boundary
area, where traffic impacts such as site
distance and carrying capacity of the
roadways are restricted, particularly along
Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route
129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 6

7

7A

7B

7C

7D

7E

7F

a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall be protected and improved for
conservation, economic, aesthetic,
recreational, and other public uses and
values. Its resources shall be protected
from the threat of pollution, misuse, and
mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed
to drain in, or on land within, the area of
influence in the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be permitted within the
area of influence of the habitat unless best
available technology is used to prevent
adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitats and shore lands shall be included
in any programs for cleanup of any
adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively channeled so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion or

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

No

Yes

No

6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 7

7G

8

9

9A

9B

10

flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity shall be timed so that spawning of
anadromous fish species and shellfish will
not be adversely affected.
Such activities must not cause
degradation of water quality or impact
identified significant fish and wildlife
habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub lethal or lethal
effect on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts
shall be made in a manner which ensures
the protection of renewable fish and
wildlife resources and considers other
activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Villageowned land adjacent to the Metro-North
parking lot, at Croton Point Park and at
Senasqua Park, along the Croton River,
and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts
should be made to encourage recreational
use of the fish and wildlife resources found
in these areas by increasing the
opportunities for public access and
enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment
of the wildlife in the designated significant
fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon
Society Sanctuaries, on other public or
private lands within the Village, where
wildlife habitats are located. Encourage
the recreational use of areas where such
resources are found, as well as the
protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new or improvement of
existing on-shore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
state's seafood products, maintaining
adequate stocks, and expanding

No

Yes

Yes

No

No

No

No

7

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 8

11

11A

12

12A

13

13A

14

aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall
be made in a manner which ensures the
protection of renewable fish and wildlife
resources and considers other activities
dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures
shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent damage
to the environment, and promote the
public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any development or
other activity which disturbs or breaks the
topsoil or results in earth movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs.
Primary dunes will be protected from all
encroachments that could impair their
natural protective capacity
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier to
Croton Bay from activities or development
that would increase erosion of or flooding
of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at
least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or
assured maintenance or replacement
programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be
maintained in good condition and private
landowners should be required to restore
and maintain erosion control mechanisms
along their river frontage which are
designed for long term stability.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

No

No

No

No

Yes

8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 9

15

16

16A

17

17A

18

protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at
other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which
supply beach materials to land adjacent to
such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase
in erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
able to function, or existing development;
and only where the public benefits
outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for
increasing erosion and adverse effects on
natural protective features
Public funds shall be appropriated for the
yearly maintenance of Senasqua Park
until such time that is determined that
expenditure of funds outweighs the cost of
acquiring, constructing and maintaining a
similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural
measures to minimize damage to natural
resources and property from flooding and
erosion. Such measures shall include: (i)
the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the
installation of sand fencing and draining;
(iii) the reshaping of bluffs; and (iv) the
flood-proofing of buildings or their
elevation above the base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes rising from areas
inland shall be of a non-structural nature,
wherever possible, in consideration of the
visual impact of structural measures. The
retention or planting of vegetative covers
will be preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the state
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to the

No

No

No

No

No

No

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 10

19

19A

19B

19C

19D

19E

20

21

safeguards which the state has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities
so that these resources and facilities may
be fully utilized in accordance with
reasonably anticipated public recreation
needs and the protection of historic and
natural resources. In providing such
access, priority will be given to public
beaches, boating facilities, fishing areas
and waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space
along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in the
form of a trail or walkway system. Such
systems should be provided along
undeveloped and underutilized land as
well as along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that
have specific value for their physical and
visual access to the Hudson River or
Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public
transportation, when feasible, to areas
within the coastal zone area where water
dependent and water enhanced recreation
activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and Bay
at the Village-owned land south of the
Village parking lots at the Croton-Harmon
Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access
to the Croton River waterfront, in its
current undeveloped condition as a
pedestrian walkway.
Access to the publicly-owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly-owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. Such
lands shall be retained in public
ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated, and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast,
provided it is consistent with the
preservation and enhancement of other

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 11

21A

22

23

24

25

25A

coastal resources and takes into account
demand for such facilities. In facilitating
such activities, priority shall be given to
areas where access to the recreation
opportunities of the coast can be provided
by new or existing public transportation
services and to those areas where the use
of the shore is severely restricted by
existing development.
Boating activities should be encouraged
provided that they do not restrict other
recreational opportunities and are
undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the
shore will provide for water-related
recreation, as a multiple use, whenever
such recreational use is appropriate in
light reasonably anticipated demand for
such activities and the primary purpose of
the development
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, in areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of
statewide significance as identified on the
coastal area map. Impairment shall
include: (i) the irreversible modification of
geologic forms, the destruction or removal
of vegetation, the destruction, or removal
of structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting or scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an identified
resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified as being of statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Protect local scenic resources by
preventing: (i) the irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

11

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 12

25B
25C

25D

26

27

28

28A

29

wetlands, the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic forms,
vegetation or structures are significant to
the scenic quality of an identified
resources; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an
identified resource.
Secure the designation of the panoramic
views from Croton Point as a scenic area
of statewide significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and
129 within the Croton boundaries as a
scenic road. Ensure developments on or
adjacent to Route 9 do not impair scenic
resources or views of or from the Hudson
and Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified view-sheds
which provide visual access to the Hudson
River, including but not limited to the views
of the Hudson River from the western
shoreline of the Village, and from Prickly
Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River
Landing. In addition, protect view-sheds
to and of the Croton River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the
protection of agricultural lands is not
applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
damage significant fish and wildlife and
their habitats, increase shoreline erosion
or flooding, or interfere with the production
of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must consider
short and long term impacts on the Croton
River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of energy resources is not
applicable to Croton.

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 13

30

30A

30B

31

31A

32

33

33A

WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited to, toxic and hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water quality
standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose any
materials in coastal waters until such
materials have been tested by the state for
conformance with water quality standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials shall
be monitored by the state to assure there
will be no discharge or leaching of
materials into coastal waters.
State coastal area policies and purposes
of approved local waterfront revitalization
programs will be considered while
reviewing coastal water classifications and
while modifying water quality standards;
however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be
recognized as being a development
constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC
should continually monitor water quality in
the Hudson River and Croton Bay which
have already been overburdened with
pollutants. Recommendations for
mitigation and upgrading water quality
classifications cannot be determined
without continual monitoring and testing of
the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used
to ensure the control of storm water runoff
and combined sewer overflows draining
into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain
storm water runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing system
or to improve existing storm water runoff
systems to that runoff from such
developments does not adversely impact

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

13

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 14

33B

34

34A
35

36

37

37A

37B

38

39

coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water
discharge to control flow of pollutants from
street and parking areas, etc. directly in
the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters
from vessels will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply areas.
There shall be no discharge from moored
structures or marine vessels, due to shape
of cove and lack of tidal flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in
coastal waters will be undertaken in a
manner that meets existing state dredging
permit requirements, and protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic
resources, natural protective features,
important agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at lease minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these
spills occur.
Best Management Practices will be utilized
to minimize the non-point discharge of
excess nutrients, organics and eroded
soils into coastal waters.
Standards and specifications for the
control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County's Best
Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops, and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas
will be conducted in such a manner so as

No

No

No
No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

No

No

No

14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 15

39A

39B

40

41
41A
42

43

43A

43B

to protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Require transporters, producers and
storers of hazardous material to inform the
public or allow public access to records
involving the transport, storage, treatment
and disposal of hazardous materials. This
is of particular concern with respect to rail
transport of such materials, storage of
identified materials on railroad property
and uses in the waterfront area involved in
the treatment, storage and disposal of
such materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302,
Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to- Know of the 1986 Superfund
Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
planning committee and the Croton Fire
Department shall be notified if hazardous
substances exceed the established
threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to state water quality standards.
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or state air
quality standards to be violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring
station should be established within the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the state reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of the acid rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus service
to the train station, thereby decreasing
dependency on the automobile use and
reduce the generation of acid rain
precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil
fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
development of a monitoring program to

No

No

No

No
No
No

No

No

No

15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 16

44
44A

assess rail vehicle engines emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

5. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
6. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Letter and Petition from Croton merchants dated July 27, 2021, in
support of Oktoberfest 2021.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202107/a3ff830f50a02b8446ab8bf69c455a16414da1d6.pdf
b. Memo from Police Chief, John Nikitopoulos, dated July 30, 2021,
regarding the new police patch implementation plan.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202107/01d6f8601f68097a8e4bfeed3b784dd199627108.pdf
c. Letter from Merrily Besvinick of the “Croton Arboretum”, dated
31, 2021, requesting an exemption from wetlands activity fees.

July

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202107/0428c393455c02699c47482807d0f2bde375dd55.pdf
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Gallelli, and seconded by Trustee Simon, the
Board of Trustees hereby approves the request from the “Croton
Arboretum” to waive wetlands activity fees. Motion was approved with
a 5-0 vote.

16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 17

d. Letter from Cynthia Lippolis of “Hudson Valley Gateway Chamber of
Commerce” dated July 16, 2021, asking for approval to conduct a
“Scarecrow Contest”.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202107/6c8b1a0467bf4fd53e6f56496e5ac1d5c9d5f6dc.pdf
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Simon, and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the
Board of Trustees hereby approves the request from the “Hudson
Valley Gateway Chamber” to conduct a “Scarecrow Contest”. Motion
was approved with a 5-0 vote.
e. Letter from John Clark of “Hudson River Recreation”, dated July 26,
2021, regarding the renewal of his agreement at “Echo Canoe and
Kayak Launch”.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202107/179470bee26f58f8ec6847a575460750da3c021c.pdf
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
has had the opportunity to kayak the Croton River and there is a
misconception that the problems on the river are coming from kayakers;
but rather the problems are coming from people partying along the trail.
Mr. Hamilton stated that Mr. Clark does a lot to clean up the area and he
supports renewing his contract.
Dave Tuttle, 94 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that the river is
in crisis and is overcrowded, and while it is not the kayaking company
that is causing the problem, the river just cannot handle the increased
traffic of a rental facility and asked that there be further discussion
before the Board renews the contract.
Ellen Brecher, owner of the Croton Running Company, Evan PerdomoCohen, owner of The Green Growler, Ralph Croteau, 12 Bank Street and
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 18

employee of 105-Twenty Restaurant, and Tracy Shea, owner of the
Croton Tapsmith, spoke in support of the letter and petition submitted by
the Croton Merchants regarding the proposed Oktoberfest in the Upper
Village.
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #127 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003; and
WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village Fees through Board
Resolutions; and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to set the vendor registration fees for Fall Festival to
help cover some of the costs of the event,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees approves the below
fees for Fall Festival vendor registration to be added to the fee schedule:

General Vendor
Food/Beverage Vendor
Non-Profit/Civic Vendor

Early Bird
(until September 1)
$75
$125
$50

Regular
(after September 1)
$100
$175
$65

DISCUSSION
Bryan Healy stated that DPW Superintendent Frank Balbi put together a layout for
the Fall Festival and he is confident that we can add more spaces if needed; based
on the costs the proposed budget is approximately $5,000. Mr. Healy stated that
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 19

they have reached out to all the food service providers in Croton encouraging them
to participate and we have received positive feedback.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the loss of Summerfest has left a gap, and rather than
waiting till next June, she believes it is prudent to hold this new version to see if we
can start new things in the village.
Resolution #128 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted unanimously by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York:
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has received American Rescue Plan Act
funds in the amount of $413,438.99; and
WHEREAS this payment represents the first of two payments the Village will receive
under this legislative act,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
make the following budget amendment to the 2021-2022 General Fund budget as
follows:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase A1000.4089

FEDERAL AID, OTHER

$413,438.99

CONTINGENCY

$413,438.99

GENERAL EXPENSES:
Increase A1990.4000
Resolution #129 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS Village Law § 4-412 provides that the Board of Trustees
may determine its own rules of procedure:
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 20

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the following rules of procedure
are adopted pursuant to Village Law § 4-412:
I. REGULAR MEETINGS: The Board of Trustees conducts Regular
Meetings on the first and third Mondays of each month at 7 p.m.
in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building. Meeting dates that fall on
holidays will be moved to the next day.
II.

The Board of Trustees conducts Work Sessions as needed on the
second and fourth Mondays of each month at 7 p.m. in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley H. Kellerhouse
Municipal Building. Work sessions do not follow the same
meeting procedures as Regular Meetings and are held for the
purpose of discussion amongst the members of the Board. The
presiding officer, at his or her discretion, may invite a member of
the public in attendance to offer comment on an agenda topic, but
is not compelled to do so.

III.

SPECIAL MEETINGS: Special meetings of the Board of Trustees are
all Board meetings other than Regular Meetings. The Mayor or
Village Manager may call a Special Meeting upon notice to the entire
Board.

IV.

QUORUM: A quorum of the Board must be physically present to
conduct business. A quorum of the five-member Board of Trustees is
three, regardless of vacancies.

V.

EXECUTIVE SESSIONS: The Board must hold Executive sessions in
accordance with NYS Public Officers Law § 105. All executive
sessions must be entered into by a motion made from a properly
noticed and conducted open meeting.
20

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 21

VI.

AGENDAS: The Clerk and Manager will prepare the agenda at the
direction of the Mayor. The Village will publish Agendas for both
Regular and Work Session Meetings as notice to the public the Friday
before the meeting. However, the Mayor, the Village Manager, or a
majority of the Board of Trustees may add items at any time. If
necessary, a supplemental agenda may be distributed at the beginning
of the meeting.
a. Any two members of the Board of Trustees may, by motion at a
regular meeting, place an item on the agenda for a subsequent
meeting.

VII. VOTING: Pursuant to the New York State Village Law and General
Construction Law, each member of the Board has one vote. The Mayor
may vote on any matter but must vote in case of a tie. A majority of the
totally authorized voting power (3 or more) is necessary to pass a
matter unless otherwise specified by State law. For example, bond
resolutions require a majority of four or more. A vote upon any
question must be taken by ayes and noes, and the names of the
members present, and their votes must be entered in the minutes.
VIII. GENERAL RULES OF PROCEDURE:
a. The Mayor presides at the meeting. In the Mayor’s absence, the
Deputy Mayor presides at meetings of the Board. The presiding
officer may debate, move and take any action that may be taken
by other members of the Board.
b. Each board member must be given the opportunity to speak on
every issue. Board members are not required to rise, but in the
interests of orderly discussion must be recognized by the
presiding officer before making motions and speaking.
c. Every motion must be seconded before being put to a vote; all
motions must be recorded in their entirety in the Board’s minutes.
d. Once recognized, a member may not be interrupted when speaking
21

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 22

unless it is to call the member to order. If a member is called to
order, the member must stop speaking until the question of order is
determined, and, if in order, the member must be permitted to
proceed. There is no limit to the number of times a member may
speak on a question. Motions to close or limit debate may be
entertained and require a two-thirds vote to pass.
e. Reports: Each Board member is required to report on the committee
or board he or she is liaison to during the report section of the
agenda.
IX.

GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT:
a. The public may speak only during the Public Comment periods of the
meeting or at such other time as a majority of the Board allows.
b. Speakers must step to the front of the room.
c. Speakers must give their name, address and the identity of their
organization, if applicable.
d. Speakers must be recognized by the presiding officer.
e. Speakers must limit their remarks to five minutes per public comment
period. Depending on the number of people who wish to speak on a
specific subject, at the discretion of the Mayor, time limits of three
minutes per person, or other similar time frame, may be applied to
each speaker.
f. Speakers may not yield any remaining time they may have to another
speaker.
g. Board members may, with the permission of the Mayor, or presiding
officer, interrupt a speaker during their remarks, but only for the
purpose of clarification or information.
h. All remarks must be addressed to the Board as a body and not to
specific members thereof or the audience.
i. Speakers must observe the commonly accepted rules of courtesy,
decorum, dignity and good taste.
j. Interested parties or their representatives may address the Board by
written communication. For public hearings, written communications
22

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 23

submitted in advance are considered at the hearings and provided as
backup material. Written communication shall be submitted by 4
p.m. on the day of the meeting for inclusion in the backup material of
the meeting.
k. During the comment period, speakers may address the Board on
issues affecting the Village. The Board will respond to specific
questions if the information is immediately available during the
Report section of the meeting; if not, as soon as it is practical.
l. The aforementioned public comment guidelines apply to all regular
meetings. However, during public hearings, the Mayor or presiding
officer may recognize questions from the floor.
X.

MINUTES:
a. The Clerk or Clerk’s designated representative is responsible for
taking the minutes of the Board. Minutes must consist of a record or
summary of all motions, proposals, resolutions and any other matter
formally voted upon and the vote thereon. Minutes must be taken at
executive session of any action that is taken by formal vote.
Executive session minutes must consist of a record or summary of
the final determination of such action, and the date and vote thereon;
provided, however, that such summary need not include any matter
which is not required to be made public by the NYS Freedom of
Information Law (FOIL). Minutes are not recorded for work
sessions unless an action is taken by the Board at that meeting.
b. Minutes must also include the following:
1. Name of the Board
2. Date, place and time of meeting
3. Notation of the presence or absence of Board members and
time of arrival or departure if different from time of call to
order and adjournment
4. Name and title of other village officials and employees
participating in the meeting and the names of audience
members that have signed a voluntary sign-in sheet
23

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 24

5.
6.
7.

A summary of communications presented to the Board
Record of reports made by Board or other village personnel
Time of adjournment; and signature of Clerk or person who
took the minutes if not the Clerk.
c. The Clerk or Clerk’s designated representative is responsible for
creating a draft of the minutes within the timeframe provided for
under the New York State Open Meetings Law. The Board of
Trustees approves the minutes at the next board meeting.
Amendments to the minutes require approval of the Board of
Trustee by a majority vote.
XI.

GUIDELINES FOR USE OF RECORDING EQUIPMENT: All
regular and work session meetings of the Board are webcast and
televised to the extent possible. All members of the public and all
public officials are allowed to tape or video record public meetings.
Recording is not allowed during executive sessions. Recording should
be done in a manner that does not interfere with the meeting. The
Mayor, or presiding officer, may determine whether the recording is
being done in an intrusive manner taking into consideration, but not
limited to, brightness of lights, distance from the deliberations of the
Board, size of the equipment, and the ability of the public to participate
in the meeting. If the recording is determined to be intrusive and
interferes with the meeting, the Mayor, or presiding officer, may direct
that the recording be stopped or undertaken in a different manner or
location.

XII. ADJOURNMENT: Meetings shall be adjourned by motion.
XIII. AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE: The Board of
Trustees may amend the foregoing procedures by a majority vote.
(resolution #130-2021 was adopted following the Public Hearing)
24

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 25

Resolution #131 of 2021
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton on Hudson has been working with Sol Systems of
Washington, DC for the installation of solar canopies at the Croton-Harmon Train
Station parking lot; and
WHEREAS on March 3, 2021, the Village entered into a lease agreement with Sol
Systems for the use of the Train Station Parking Lot in order to install solar
canopies; and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has now received a special permit
application from Sol Systems for the installation of solar canopies at the CrotonHarmon Train Station parking lot; and
WHEREAS the application requires a setback variance from the Village’s Zoning
Board of Appeals,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby determines that
the proposed action is a Type II Action under SEQRA, not requiring any further
action,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby refers the special
permit application to the Village Planning Board in accordance with Village law,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby refers the special
permit application to the Zoning Board of Appeals and directs the applicant to make
a formal application to the ZBA,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby requests that the
Zoning Board of Appeals convene a special meeting to review the application as
soon as feasible,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, August 16, 2021, at 7 p.m. in the
25

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 26

Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider the issuance of a special permit for the installation of solar canopies at the
Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot.
9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Geoff Hamilton, 63 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson thanked Village
Manager King for her service to the Village and wished her the best on her
retirement. Mr. Hamilton stated that he is glad that Trustee Simon and
Trustee Murtaugh will be working closely with the fire departments. Mr.
Hamilton stated that he is also concerned that the area for the Fall
Festival is very tight and asked that emergency services take a look at the
area being considered.
Dave Tuttle, 94 Grand Street, stated that the Village has hosted
Summerfest and could also host Oktoberfest
Toni Senecal, co-owner of the Croton Tapsmith, voiced her
disappointment with the decision of the Board to not permit Oktoberfest
and that the decision would hurt local businesses.
Ellen Brecher, owner of the Croton Running Company, stated that she
agreed with the comments by Toni Senecal.
Alexis Agosta, owner of the Grandstand, stated that she supports the Fall
Festival at Vassallo Park, she had legal issues which arose from
Oktoberfest in 2019 and would not like to see those repeated and
appreciates any event being held to help support local business.
Tracy Shea, co-owner of the Croton Tapsmith, expressed his frustration
with the decision to not put the Oktoberfest decision to a vote.
10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on July 19,
2021, was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Gallelli abstained.
26

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 27

11. REPORTS:
Trustee Murtaugh thanked Village Manager Janine King for her long
service to the village and welcomed Treasurer Daniel Tucker. Trustee
Murtaugh stated that he supports the merchants who would like to see
Oktoberfest this year, but he believes that we should move forward with
the Fall Festival to see how it goes and suggested allowing and waiving
fees for street service for Grand Street merchants who are upset that we
are proceeding with the Fall Festival.
Trustee Simon advised that he attended last Tuesday’s Planning Board
meeting; the Regan company held productive negotiations with the
neighbors on Wells Avenue and they have resolved many of their
concerns; he attended the Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee meeting on July
29th; they discussed working to extend the “Slow Down Croton”
campaign as well as commenting on the draft “Regional Transportation
Plan”, he attended meetings of the “Water Control Commission” and the
“Waterfront Advisory Council”, he attended the “Fire Council” meeting on
July 29th with Mayor Pugh where important organization and safety
issues were discussed, he met with the “Rotary” last week where they
discussed the car show and parade scheduled for September 26th, he met
last week with the “Croton Caring Committee” President and Executive
Director to talk about their priorities, he joined the Mayor and Deputy
Mayor at the “Croton Point Avenue project ribbon cutting, and
participated in a White House briefing where HUD Secretary Marcia
Fudge spoke. Trustee Simon thanked Village Manager Janine King for
her dedicated work over the last 26 years and read a quote from “Teddy
Roosevelt”, Far and away, the best prize life offers is the chance to work hard at
work worth doing", and that is what she has done here for which we are all
grateful.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the Planning Board continues to work on the
Katz property and 25 South Riverside in addition to the many other
projects before them. Trustee Gallelli advised that Westchester County
has allocated a million dollars towards senior exercise equipment in
County parks, and asked that we reach out to the Westchester County
27

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 28

Parks Department to advocate that some of that equipment be put in the
Croton Point Park.
Trustee Gallelli stated that as Village Manager Janine King’s last meeting,
she wants to say that it has been a pleasure to work with her, as the
Manager for six years, she has advanced the Village’s interests in
multiple ways including leading the pursuit of opportunities for funding
and programming, her fair leadership and management style and her
financial prowess has served the Village well, she was always looking out
for the best interests of Croton, and she will be missed.
Trustee Horowitz thanked Village Manager Janine King for all she did in
helping her to get through the first few months on the Board and wished
her well on her retirement.
Mayor Pugh stated that he had the great honor of being part of the Board
that appointed Janine King as Village Manager and appreciates
everything she has done for the Village and wished her all the best on
her retirement. Mayor Pugh congratulated Bryan Healy on his
appointment as Village Manager and welcomed new Treasurer Daniel
Tucker.
Mayor Pugh advised that he attended the Croton Point Avenue ribbon
cutting ceremony, the decisions to move forward with these
improvements is going to be a legacy for the Village that will be with us
for years to come. Mayor Pugh advised that he attended the Fire Council
meeting with Trustee Simon, we had a good discussion and appreciates
their flexibility.
Village Manager King thanked the Board for their nice comments, these
past six years have been extremely challenging, we did get a lot done,
and knows that she is leaving the Village in great hands.
Bryan Healy thanked Village Manager King for everything that she has
done for the Village and for the staff and hoped that she will not be a
stranger to the Village.
28

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 2, 2021
Page 29

Bryan Healy advised that the office will be closed tomorrow for employee
appreciation day. Mr. Healy stated that he looks forward to working with
the businesses to make Fall Festival a successful event. Mr. Healy stated
that he had a meeting with representatives of the New York State
Department of Transportation to discuss repaving Route 129 and we are
hopeful that it will be put on their plan, we also discussed a number of
issues regarding drainage and repairing of fences along Route 9.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that it has been a pleasure to work
with Village Manager Janine King.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a Motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:50pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

29

