A Special Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Thursday, August 12, 2021, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Healy
Trustee Gallelli
1.

Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

CALL TO ORDER:

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 5:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #132 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson owns the Grand Street Fire
House, housing Chemical Engine Company and Columbian Hook & Ladder
Company; and
WHEREAS, Chemical Engine Company recently took delivery of the new
Engine 118, a 2018 Spartan Triple Combination Pumper; and
WHEREAS, the Village desires to document the existing condition and the
load capacity of the engine room floor at the Grand Street Fire House, and
WHEREAS, Antonucci & Associates of Pelham, New York, has submitted a
proposal for the above scope of work at a cost not to exceed $17,600,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to accept the proposal from Antonucci &
Associates for an amount not to exceed $17,600;
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for such work is available in the
following capital account: H3410.2102.08164.
DISCUSSION:

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 2

Village Manager Healy began by giving the Board an overview of the structural
analysis report submitted by Antonucci & Associates. The report can be found
as part of the agenda backup for this special meeting.
Mayor Pugh asked if the engineer was recommending any specific repairs at
this time. Village Manager Healy confirmed that no repairs are being
recommended at this time and that they would like to continue their testing to
determine what, if any, repairs are necessary.
Trustee Simon stated that the Board should be encouraged by these
preliminary findings and should move forward with the proposal. Trustee
Simon asked which capital account the funding for this work was being drawn.
Village Manager Healy stated that this capital account goes back to 2008, when
funding was first requested for improvements to the Grand Street Fire House.
Mayor Pugh asked if this funding would be relying on previously budgeted
funds. Village Manager Healy confirmed that it would.
Trustee Murtaugh asked if someone could provide a definition of spalling for
those residents who may be unfamiliar with the term. Trustee Simon stated
that spalling is a term used to define areas of concrete which have delaminated
from the substrate. Trustee Murtaugh asked if it would be correct to say that
the spalling would be the casual observation, but the degree of deterioration
would have to be determined by further testing. Village Manager Healy stated
that would be correct.
Trustee Simon stated that another key component of the proposal would be to
determine the weight-bearing load of the floor.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he would like the public to know that the
investigation of the Grand Street Fire House begun before any postings were
made on social media. A request was made by the fire chief to investigate the
structural load of the floor and the Village responded proactively.
Mayor Pugh asked if there was a timeframe established for the testing. Village
Manager Healy stated that the engineer has proposed a four-to-six-week
window for completing the testing.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 3

Trustee Gallelli stated that the fact that we have funding available in a capital
account from 2008 indicates that the Village has long been committed to
making improvements to the Grand Street Fire House.
Mayor Pugh invited Assistant Fire Chief Joshua Karpoff to provide comments
on behalf of the fire department. Chief Karpoff stated that his reading of the
report led to the conclusion that while necessary repair work may not be
insignificant, the situation is not as dire as some have stated. Chief Karpoff
further stated that it is preferable that fire engines be stored indoors due to
their water component, so having the work done in a timely manner before
any frost or freeze concerns would be appreciated.
Village Manager Healy stated that the department could store the old Engine
118 in the fire house at this time, as the engineer did not have a concern
regarding the floor holding what was previously there. They declined to provide
an opinion on the new Engine 118 until the tests were completed as it is slightly
heavier than the old engine.
Chief Karpoff inquired if anything was submitted in writing to the Village by
previous structural engineers stating that nothing should be stored on the
engine room floor until further testing could be completed. Village Manager
Healy stated that to the best of his knowledge the Village never received any
such documentation in the past.
Trustee Simon asked Chief Karpoff at what point does storing the engine
outdoors become an issue to the department. Chief Karpoff responded by
saying that residual water is left in the pump and piping, which can be
damaged by the expansion caused by freezing temperatures, so it would be
best to have it indoors well before the onset of any cold temperatures.
Trustee Murtaugh asked Village Manager Healy if there was space to store the
new pumper at the DPW Garage if this issue could not be resolved for some
reason in a timely manner. Village Manager Healy stated that the Village
mechanic could make the space available if necessary.

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 12, 2021
Page 4

There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz; the motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. 5:16pm.

Respectfully submitted,
Bryan Healy, Village Manager

_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

4

