Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, August 16, 2021, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Treasurer Tucker
Village Attorney Amanda Posy

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

The following official was absent:
Trustee Horowitz
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers.
The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$97,075.87
$15,541.61
$2,690.18
$438,957.51
$6,125.38

3. PUBLIC HEARING
Motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the issuance of a “Special Permit”
to “Sol Systems” of Washington D.C. for the installation of solar canopies at
the Croton Harmon Train Station Parking Lot was made Trustee Murtaugh.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote.
The Project Manager of “Sol Systems” gave an overview of the project. To
hear the entire presentation, you may log onto the following link:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/24
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202108/495f9aa27c60b9fd4f47901ff1c600fc353326c7.ppt (Power Point)

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 2

Trustee Gallelli asked if the Village’s Superintendent of Public Works is in
agreement with the functioning of the parking lot and the ability to maintain
the lot.
The Project Manager responded by saying yes.
Trustee Simon asked if the potential difficulties indicated earlier with respect
to putting in a car-charging station is the cost factor or is it more about
compatibility with the solar canopies.
The Project Manager stated that their main concentration at this time is to
the storage side of the project and under normal circumstances they might
be more willing to discuss a car-charging station, but the efficiencies gained
by coordinating both of those projects and including it into one “Site Plan” is
not there. The Project Manager said that they could possibly entertain laying
conduits in the future, but the issue is timing, but they would be happy to
work with any contractor in the future.
Trustee Simon stated that the Village already has two car-charging stations
but if we wanted to do this with a separate vendor at a later time would
there be difficulty in terms of what is being done with the solar canopy
installation.
The Project Manager responded by saying no, the only issue would be cutting
into the parking lot again and at this stage we do not know where they would
go.
Lindsay Audin, Chair of the “Sustainability Committee”, stated that he is
glad that this project is moving ahead; it is an opportunity for the Village to
take advantage of an asset and turn it into something that produces revenue
and cuts the Village’s carbon footprint.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote.
4. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 3

5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Letter from Village Engineer Daniel O’Connor dated August 2, 2021,
requesting the extension of a Building Permit for 90 Cleveland Drive.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
extension of a Building Permit for 90 Cleveland Drive. Motion was
approved with a 4-0 vote.
b. Memorandum from the NYS Department of State dated August 12,
2021, regarding Bridge Washing/Deck Sealing along Route 9.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the Village of Croton is in the “Coastal Zone
Management Area” and because we have a “Local Waterfront
Revitalization Plan” we are being notified. Trustee Gallelli stated that
while it does not come up that often, the last being the “Millennium
Pipeline”, there is a real advantage to having this “Plan” because they
are required to consult with the Village and give us an opportunity to
comment
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson referred the
Memorandum to the “Waterfront Advisory Committee” for their review.
Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote.
c. Letter supporting the Village of Ossining regarding an “Electric Mobility
Challenge”
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village of Ossining is applying
for an e-bike/ride share program run by “NYSERDA” and they are
asking that the Village of Croton write a letter in support. Village
Manager Healy stated that by supporting Ossining, we are in no way
agreeing to participate in the program
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 4

Resolution
On motion by Trustee Gallelli, and seconded by Trustee Simon, the
Board of Trustees hereby approves the request from the Village of
Ossining to write a letter supporting their participation in the “Electric
Mobility Challenge”. Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote
d. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated August 16, 2021,
regarding Optimum’s service outage.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202108/8b32e9ac5342b213dcda9a723cdf6a92c9038a1b.pdf (memo)
Trustee Simon thanked Village Manager Healy and Mayor Pugh on their
efforts in trying to determine what had happened; he is quite
astonished that Optimum was taking their responsibilities in terms of
reaching out to the Village so lightly and asked that we invite
representatives from Optimum to meet with the Board at one of our
future sessions to discuss their liaison responsibilities.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she agrees with Trustee Simon’s comments,
she believes that part of the problems lays at the feet of Con-Edison
because there were serious delays in the response from Con-Edison in
fixing the pole and deactivating it so that the other services that had
wires on that pole could start doing their repairs.
Village Manager Healy said that the Altice Representative informed us
of this as well, and while he did not have a chance to speak with our
liaison at Con-Edison he did not want to throw that accusation out
without first addressing it with Con-Edison.
Trustee Gallelli stated that if this was not the case, then Village
Manager Healy can address it at the next meeting.
Trustee Murtaugh thanked Village Manager Healy for his
correspondence to the Board addressing the steps to protect the
firehouses that had been impacted.
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 5

Mayor Pugh stated that while this is very disappointing, it is not
surprising and would like to forward the Manager’s memo to the
“Public Service Commission”.
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Simon, and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh, the
Board of Trustees approves forwarding Village Manager Healy’s memo
to the “Public Service Commission” and to invite Optimum
representatives to a Board meeting to discuss the recent outage.
Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Lindsay Audin, 221 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, and Chair of the
“Sustainability Committee” stated that he supports the “NYSERDA” grant
application, we have worked extremely hard on this grant and while the
“Letter of Commitment” does not guarantee that we get the funding, we
cannot get it without this letter. Mr. Audin added that none of these
grants require matching funds.
Written Comments:
Mitchell Bring, 12 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, states that
he hopes that the liquid runoff from the trash compactors will be
contained at the site and that the Planning Board be made aware of the
proposed solution by the Village Engineer; a simple gravel filled trench
around the compactors would capture any liquid wastewater and keep it
from flowing with surface water downhill into the proposed swale.
Loretta Reilly, 3 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, thanked the
Board for their detailed attention to the issues of the Prickly Pear Hill
Road residents; she states that she is happy to facilitate inspection of the
culvert at the base of her unpaved driveway, the Board did note that the
repairs to the culvert will most likely become the responsibility of the
owners of 3 Prickly Pear Hill Road but since the culvert and swale along
the road were supposed to be maintained by Hudson National Golf Club,
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 6

she believes that the costs to repair the neglected system should be their
responsibility.
John Ealer, 5 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, thanked the
Board and representatives from the golf course for their attention to
detail in this matter and hopes to see a favorable and equitable outcome
for all parties.
Nancy Ward, 5 Hughes Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she was
affected by the recent Optimum outage, and since they rely on Optimum
for their phone service, they lost that service as well. Ms. Ward stated
that the other issue is that cell service is extremely poor in this area
which puts them in a situation where in an emergency they have no way
of reaching out. Ms. Ward stated that a proposal years ago had been
voted down and asked how the cell service issue is going to be addressed
in the future in this area.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that Ms. Ward’s comments should be included in
the communication with Optimum as well as any of the other players in
this situation.
Village Manager Healy stated that over the last few years, the Village has
been working on putting up more cell towers, last year a Verizon
Wireless Tower was installed on the top of the Municipal Building which
helped to increase Verizon’s coverage in this area, the Village is also
working with AT&T to add a Tower to the area, and we have multiple
carriers on our Tower at the train station.
Mayor Pugh stated that an application was withdrawn in 2013 because
the applicant felt that they would not get the support, and while he was
not on the Board at that time, he is not sure if this Board would reach
the same conclusion based on the experiences we have seen over the
years and the increased importance and need for cell service. Mayor
Pugh stated that we are cautiously optimistic regarding a proposal for a
Tower at the location of what was the Danish Home.
7. RESOLUTIONS:
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 7

Resolution #133 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) has applied for an amended special
permit and site plan approval for modifications to their ancillary storage area, and
WHEREAS HNGC received its initial special permit for an annual membership golf
club on July 25, 1994, site plan approval on July 26, 1994, an amended special
permit on April 19, 1999, and amended site plan approval on March 2, 1999, and
WHEREAS, on July 25, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process
and review described in detail in Parts 2 of the EAF “Determination of Significance”
attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on August 2, 2021, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
issues and adopts the EAF Parts 2, and 3 Determination of Significance attached
hereto, and adopts a Negative Declaration pursuant to SEQRA in connection with
this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees found the following LWRP policies to be applicable and
finds the Proposed Action to be consistent with each of these applicable policies:
POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 8

and the Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of
or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or
destroy the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitat or Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be
permitted within the area of influence of the habitat unless best available
technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
POLICY 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer
overflows shall be effectively channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, and other
contaminants from polluting surface and ground water and impact the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 8: Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area from the
introduction of hazardous wastes and other pollutants which bio-accumulate in the
food chain, or which cause significant sub lethal or lethal effect on those resources.
This policy is applicable and consistent in that no hazardous materials or pesticides
are to be stored in this ancillary storage area.
POLICY 11: Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to
minimize damage to property and the endangering of human lives caused by
flooding and erosion.
POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order
to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and
promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design,
construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.
POLICY 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction
of erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no
measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities or
development or at other locations.
POLICY 25: Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made resources which are
not identified as being of statewide significance, but which contribute to overall
scenic quality of the coastal area.
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 9

POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of
stormwater runoff and combined sewer overflow draining into coastal waters.
POLICY 37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point
discharge of excess nutrients, organic and eroded soils into coastal waters.
POLICY 37A: Standards and specifications for the control of non-point source
discharge as set forth in Westchester County’s Best Management Practice Manual or
other recognized reference shall be utilized during development of any site.
POLICY 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the
benefits derived from these areas.
POLICY 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by
preventing damage from erosion or siltation, minimizing disturbance, preserving
natural habitats and protecting against flood and pollution.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above
were reviewed and found too not be applicable.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:
Based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its determination that
the Proposed Action, the issuance of an amended special permit to Hudson National
Golf Club for their ancillary storage area, complies with the policy standards and
conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP.
Resolution #134 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) for modifications to its ancillary storage
area located on Prickly Pear Hill Road; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has issued a memo to the Village Board with a
favorable recommendation and the WAC has issued a memo of consistency with the
Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP); and
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 10

WHEREAS a Public Hearing was held and closed on July 6, 2021; and
WHEREAS on August 16, 2021, the Village Board issued a Negative Declaration with
respect to the proposed action; and
WHEREAS on August 16, 2021, the Village Board determined that the Proposed
Action was consistent with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the
Village’s LWRP,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board issues an amended
special permit for modifications to the Hudson National Golf Club ancillary storage
facility on Prickly Pear Hill Road subject to the following conditions:
1. That the applicants must obtain site plan approval from the Planning Board,
and shall submit the application for site plan approval immediately following
the issuance of this special permit and diligently prosecute said application.
2. That the site plans shall include the drainage improvements essentially as
presented subject to approval by the Planning Board, and shall also include
the restoration and construction of a swale along the entire north side of
Prickly Pear Hill Road connecting to the drainage structure at Albany Post
Road. Where the swale goes through a culvert at a property owner’s
driveway, at 3 Prickly Pear Hill Road, the applicant shall investigate the
condition of the culvert and what is needed to establish the flow of
stormwater through the culvert or a replacement culvert and coordinate with
the property owner as necessary. The Planning Board shall set forth a
timeframe after approval within which the drainage work shall be completed.
3. That HNGC shall be responsible for the ongoing maintenance of the swale
and other drainage improvements associated with Prickly Pear Hill Road and
the ancillary storage yard.
4. That the site plan shall clearly indicate the limit of disturbance line and it
shall be required to be marked in the field.
5. That the site plan shall indicate the storage area designations as set forth in
Exhibit A.
6. That the site plan include additional new landscape screening beyond that
already presented which HNGC shall be obligated to maintain.
7. That the applicant be required to repair Prickly Pear Hill Road to repair
damage caused in the past by use of the road by HNGC, and such obligation
shall continue in the event of any future damage or normal deterioration.
8. That the materials which may be stored in the ancillary storage facility shall
be limited as set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto. HNGC shall provide a list
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 11

of materials currently stored at the property to the Village Engineer on an
annual basis.
9. That no hazardous materials or pesticides shall be stored at the ancillary
storage facility.
10.That the ancillary storage area shall not be used as a staging area for
construction projects elsewhere on the HNGC property.
11.That the applicant shall post a bond in accordance with §230-64 to guarantee
performance of the work to be undertaken as part of the site plan approval.
Discussion:
Trustee Simon congratulated the neighbors and the Planning Board for working
hard on trying to figure out what needed to be done to get a workable solution.
Mayor Pugh asked if Mr. Bring’s concerns be part of the “Site Plan” approval
process.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this would be a “Site Plan” issue.
Mayor Pugh echoed Trustee Simon’s comments and believes that this will put
everyone in the neighborhood in a better place.
Resolution #135 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has been web streaming its Board of Trustees Meetings since
June 2006; and
WHEREAS EarthChannel has provided satisfactory services for the Village since
October 2014; and
WHEREAS the Village is desirous of upgrading its web streaming services to provide
better access to the public; and

11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 12

WHEREAS CivicPlus of Manhattan, Kansas, which has purchased EarthChannel, has
provided a contract amendment to provide streaming in high definition at a cost of
$6,500 per year; and
WHEREAS CivicPlus’
smartphones; and

product

is

compatible

with

computers,

tablets

and

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is authorized to
execute the amendment from CivicPlus for web streaming services in the amount of
$6,500 per year,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for such services is available in the
following account: A6410.4000 - Publicity - Contractual
Resolution #136 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to adopt Chapter 99 of the Village Code, Cannabis
On-Site Consumption Opt-Out, to prohibit on-site cannabis consumption
establishments within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson; and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 11 of 2021 has been drafted for such
purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on September 20, 2021, at 7 PM to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 11 of 2021 to adopt Chapter 99 of the Village Code, Cannabis OnSite Consumption Opt-Out, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New
York.
Resolution #137 of 2021

12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 13

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees supports efforts to cut
its municipal carbon footprint; and
WHEREAS the Village has been an active participant in NYSERDA's past grant
funding programs; and
WHEREAS the Village successfully secured the necessary points in NYSERDA's Clean
Energy Community (CEC) program competition to qualify to receive $110,000 in
grants that do not require matching or other funds from the Village; and
WHEREAS analyses by the Village's Sustainability Committee have determined that
projects involving the installation of solar panels and heating controls at the
Washington Engine firehouse, and a heat pump water heater at the Kellerhouse
Municipal Building, would comply with CEC grant funding requirements,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
Mayor Brian Pugh to sign the necessary Letter of Commitment indicating that all
such grant funds received by the Village will be used as indicated in that letter.
Discussion:
Trustee Simon thanked the Chair of the “Sustainability Committee” for shepherding
this process and looks forward to seeing the fruition of all their hard work.
Resolution #138 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code,
Section 230, to eliminate the prohibition against video game and arcade machines,
update notification procedures for sheds and update penalties for offenses; and
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 14

WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2021 has been drafted for such
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Westchester County Planning Board, Village Planning Board and the
Waterfront Advisory Committee have submitted memorandums in support of the
local law,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That the Village Board of Trustees hereby
calls for a Public Hearing on August 30, 2021, at 7 PM to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 8 of 2021 to amend the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code,
Section 230, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley H. Kellerhouse
Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York.
Resolution #139 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York:
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has owned the parcel located at 41-51
Maple Street (“the Property”) since 2008; and
WHEREAS on May 17, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees issued a special permit to
Regan Development Corporation (“the developer”) of Ardsley, New York, for the
construction of two multi-unit residential buildings at the Property; and
WHEREAS on June 7, 2021, the Village Board authorized the contract of sale for the
Property with the developer for $2,000,000; and
WHEREAS the developer has been working to submit its funding application to the
New York State Office of Homes and Community Renewal; and
WHEREAS as part of this application, the developer must submit the Payment in
Lieu of Taxes (PILOT) agreement, which the Village agreed to as a condition of the
term sheet,

14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 15

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute the PILOT agreement with the developer subject to the
Village Attorney’s final approval.
Discussion:
Trustee Simon stated that he is gratified to see that we are at the “PILOT” stage
which means that the project is making progress and moving forward. Trustee
Simon stated that it is important to focus on the 3% figure because there will be
substantial growth over a thirty-year period in what the Village will be receiving
from that “PILOT”.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the “PILOT” agreement was approved by the Town of
Cortlandt which was a necessary step.
Mayor Pugh thanked the Town of Cortlandt, and we appreciate their cooperation.
Resolution #140 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has received money from Auction
International in the amount of $8,360.00 for the sale of surplus equipment; and
WHEREAS, DPW Superintendent Frank Balbi has requested the use of these funds
to purchase a leaf body to install on an existing truck for leaf season,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
make the following amendment to the 2021/2022 General Fund budget as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE:
Increase
A1000.2665

Sales of Equipment

$8,360.00

GENERAL EXPENSES:
Increase
H5110.2010.22391

DPW Vehicles

$8,360.00

15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 16

Resolution #141 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS John Nikitopoulos joined the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police
Department on August 5, 1986, as a police officer; and
WHEREAS Officer Nikitopoulos was promoted to Sergeant on February 19, 2008;
and
WHEREAS Sergeant Nikitopoulos was promoted to Detective Sergeant on February
29, 2008; and
WHEREAS Det. Sgt. Nikitopoulos was promoted to Lieutenant on September 6,
2017; and
WHEREAS in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Westchester County
Department of Human Resources, Lt. John Nikitopoulos was provisionally appointed
as Chief of Police effective August 29, 2020; and
WHEREAS Chief Nikitopoulos sat for the Chief of Police civil service examination in
March 2021; and
WHEREAS Chief Nikitopoulos is eligible for a permanent appointment to the position
of Chief of Police from Westchester County civil service promotional list #71-399,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that John Nikitopoulos, of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York is hereby appointed to the permanent position of Chief of Police effective
August 17, 2021, at an annual salary of $168,000.
Discussion:
Trustee Simon stated that Chief Nikitopoulos has been doing a fantastic job in the
“acting” capacity and he is glad that we can remove that designation.
Mayor Pugh stated that this is a well-deserved appointment.
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 17

Trustee Murtaugh stated that he has known Chief Nikitopoulos for a long time, he
has worked extremely hard for this, and is pleased that we are able to appoint him
as our Chief of Police permanently.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Reilly, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that everyone in
the Village should have been notified that the Board was resuming in
person meetings through the Village’s telephone system. Mr. Reilly
objected to an attack on the Fire Department regarding the blue and red
flag, he objected to the new Sign Ordinance and expressed his concern of
where we are going to get our power once Indian Point facility shuts
down; the balance of Mr. Reilly’s comments did not pertain to Village
business and can be heard by viewing the video that is available on the
Village’s website.
Nancy Ward, 5 Hughes Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is also
concerned about certain signs being deemed political and said that if one
sign is allowed all signs should be allowed. Ms. Ward expressed her
concern regarding the new traffic lights on Croton Point Avenue and
objected to the no right on red signage and believes it is going to be a
problem when traffic picks up and believes that the area by the Maple
Street project will be very congested. Ms. Ward also brought up a
situation that occurred when she rented the “Senasqua” pavilion for a
private event, it appeared that the Village also rented to the “Tavern” and
random people were going through her event because they thought her
event was part of the public venue and said that you cannot have both a
private event and a public event at the same time.
10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Trustee Gallelli asked the Secretary to add the comments she made
regarding the retirement of Village Manager Janine King.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on August 2, 2021, was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0 vote.
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 18

11. REPORTS:
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he commuted for years to the train station;
most of that time on foot and witnessed countless automotive and
pedestrians mishaps because there were no lights, it was extremely
dangerous and hopefully over time the lights can be modified so that it
makes it easier and more efficient for everyone. Trustee Murtaugh stated
that Ms. Ward’s problem at the “Senasqua” pavilion has been addressed and
steps will be taken to correct this in the future. Trustee Murtaugh stated that
road street signs on Riverside at Prospect and on Cleveland Drive near Park
have been inactive for the past ten days and asked that they be looked at.
Trustee Murtaugh thanked Manager Healy for being on top of the Optimum
issue.
Trustee Simon stated that he attended an event at Van Cortlandt Manor with
the Mayor and Village Manager Healy, he attended the Planning Board
meeting last week where there was an extensive discussion on the Maple
Street project; he attended the soft opening of a new business called “Croton
Corners” and encouraged everyone to stop by and take a look of what they
have to offer. Trustee Simon stated that he is sensing a lot of enthusiasm for
our “Fall Festival” and encouraged businesses to sign up. Trustee Simon
welcomed our new Governor and stated that he looks forward to working
with her.
Trustee Gallelli advised that the Planning Board granted “Site Plan” approval
for the 41-51 Maple Street project; the developers are still waiting for some
funding from the State and once that is received, they will begin to move
forward. Trustee Gallelli added that part of that approval was a compromise
they worked out with the neighbors on Wells and Beekman with regards to
parking spaces and additional recreation space. Trustee Gallelli stated that at
a prior meeting she had mentioned that Westchester County had allocated a
million dollars towards putting senior exercise equipment in several County
owned parks, she and Village Manager Healy reached out to County
Legislator Borgia, and she received a response back stating that while there
are no guarantees she will try to have Croton Point Park included in this
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 19

project. Trustee Gallelli reminded everyone that the annual 9-11 ceremony
will be held at the Croton Landing Memorial at 11:00am on September 11th.
Mayor Pugh advised that he, Trustee Simon, Congressman Jones and
Assemblywoman Galef attended an event at the Van Cortlandt Manor to
announce the funding for approving access to the “Historic Hudson Valley”.
Mayor Pugh added that this funding also includes funding for the repair of the
“Half Moon Bay” bridge; this past Tuesday he attended the Town of Cortlandt
meeting and expressed his appreciation for their support of the “PILOT”
program, on Thursday the Board held a special meeting where we received a
report on the status of the Grand Street Firehouse. Mayor Pugh thanked
Village Manager Healy for working on Sunday to deal with the Optimum
outage. Mayor Pugh expressed his condolences to Ms. Ward on the loss of a
family member and is sorry for what occurred at the “Senasqua” pavilion and
is glad that we are taking steps to manage this in the future; with regards to
the Croton Point Avenue traffic lights, we have raised this with the New York
State Department of Transportation and they are adamant that they will not
change the “no turn on red”, their position is that this is a project to improve
the safety of pedestrians and that turning on red will put pedestrians in
danger. Mayor Pugh advised that with respect to the 41-59 Maple Street
Project, a traffic study was performed, we believe that the overall impact will
be modest, and the results of the traffic study is available on the Village’s
website.
Mayor Pugh stated that he believes there is a misunderstanding regarding
the sign law, the property on Grand Street was issued a “Notice of Violation”
under a law that has been on the books since 2005 prohibiting banners which
is a content neutral prohibition.
Village Manager Healy stated that he has been in regular communication with
the New York State Department of Transportation regarding the lights on
Croton Point Avenue to try to ensure we had as many minor impacts as
possible, but as the Mayor stated, the New York State Department of
Transportation feels that the project is to improve the safety of pedestrians
and cyclists and the right turn on red signs from the ramps are permanent
and they will not be changing them. Village Manager Healy stated that since
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
August 16, 2021
Page 20

those ramps and intersections belong to the State the Village has little
control of what they do there. Village Manager Healy advised that they have
met with “Blaze” personnel regarding the event which will start on
September 17th, there will be additional police personnel each night, an
officer will be stationed at the northbound exit ramp and will be impowered
to wave the traffic on to avoid backups on Route 9. Village Manager Healy
stated that we currently have fifteen vendors who have registered for the Fall
Festival and encouraged people to register.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a Motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:46pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

20

