Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
August 10, 2021
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney
1. Call to order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of August 10, 2021 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Moore, Christopher and Karen -- 6 Loconto (Sec. 68.17 Block 3 Lot 31) --Application for
two-lot subdivision creating one new building lot.
Mr. Ralph Mastromonoco, P.E., on behalf of the applicant, stated that the application is for a
two- lot subdivision on which there is an existing house on one lot, and the other lot is a vacant
lot sized under an acre. The applicant is proposing a house approximately 1800 square feet
with access to water and sewer. The proposed development is zoning compliant; however if a
garage is proposed, the applicant would have to get a variance for an accessory structure in the
front yard.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that the Waterfront Advisory Committee had reviewed the CAF and
the 44 policies of the LWRP and made a recommendation of consistency.
Chairman Luntz noted that there had been some questions as to the accuracy of the old survey
as it relates to the two stone piers and stone wall and the location of the wall between the
applicant and 174 Maple Street. Mr. Mastromonoco responded that the pillars are in the state
right of way and it is not the intention of the applicant to remove them.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and
the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
Ms. Anne-Marie Reynolds, 174 Maple Street, expressed her concern about whether the stone
wall would remain along the driveway. In looking at the survey and deed, it appeared to her that

the intention was to delineate the two properties and she requested that there be assurances
made that the stone wall remain untouched.
Chairman Luntz asked if the Moores could make a statement or commitment to the stone wall
remaining where it is relative to the proposed development.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that if a portion of the stone wall is on the Moore’s property, they
would use care to maintain that portion since it belonged to the Moores, but he did not want to
commit to anything if the final survey shows that the wall belongs to the Moores.
Mr. Mastromonoaco stated that they will be having a final survey prepared to determine where
the wall is located and whose property it belongs to. The Planning Board members agreed that
the best course of action at present is to find where the wall is located and then handle it on site
plan approval.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Krisky,
and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
The Planning Board reviewed and agreed with the WAC’s recommendation of consistency, and
proceeded to make a determination of consistency. The Planning Board also reviewed the
Short Environmental Assessment Form, determined that there is no or small impact on the
environment and issued a negative declaration.
MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the resolution for the preliminary subdivision
plat, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0. The Planning Board
added that more details of the walls and pillars on the new survey be submitted prior to fina
subdivision approval.
b) Regan Development Corporation (contract vendee) --41-51 Maple Street (aka “Katz
Property”) (Section 78.12 Block 3 Lot 3) --Application for site plan approval for a
multifamily residential development consisting of 33 apartments within two 2-story
buildings.
Chairman Luntz noted, for the record, that the Planning Board had received the correspondence
from Katie Brosnan, 15 Wells Avenue.
Mr. Jamie Easton, P.E., of Prime Companies, updated the Planning Board on the site plan
revisions. He stated that based upon the public comment received, they had removed 5 parking
spaces from the parking lot, dramatically reduced the grading and removed the recreation space
that was in the buffer area. The applicant believes that they significantly address the neighbors’
concerns. They received Westchester County comments on the bus station and are still waiting
to hear from NYSDOT.

2

The applicant has submitted architectural plans with the samples of colors, section views, solar
panel views, and the roof. Other items submitted include the revised rendering along the pocket
park, the addition of a fourth bench in the pocket park, a bus shelter rendering, and added
landscaping in front of the neighbors’ property.
The Planning Board discussed access to the pocket park and agreed that the park was a public
park and should follow the same established hours and rules as the other village parks.
The Planning Board also discussed the addition of a second electric vehicle charging station in
the parking area and agreed that this item should be part of the resolution.
The Planning Board noted that the plans should indicate that the stormwater system is designed
for a 25-year storm event not 10 year.
Mr. Easton stated that AKRF will assist with the optimization timing, and the applicant will get all
necessary permits from the NYSDOT.
There being no further comments from the public, Mr. Kauderer made a motion to close the
public hearing, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky recommended that a memo from the Planning Board to the Village Board
recommend that the Village Board seek grant money or non-village funding for a pedestrian
pathway where the sidewalk ends at the pocket park west to Municipal Place and that these
monies be placed in the capital budget. The Planning board also agreed to recommend that the
Village send a letter to DOT that this sidewalk be incorporated into their TIP (Transportation
Improvement Plan) fund. Mr. Kauderer seconded the motion, and the motion carried, by a vote
of 5-0.
MOTION: After reviewing the draft resolution with additional conditions (resolution attached),
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the resolution, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion
carried by a vote of 5-0.
3. REFERRALS
a) Referral from Village Board on Special Permit application to install solar canopies at the
Croton Harmon Train Station parking lot.
Mr. Nick Mento, of Sol Systems, presented the proposal for solar canopies and battery energy
storage system (BESS) at the Croton Harmon Train Station parking lot. There was a discussion
about the impact of salt on steel, drainage concerns and the pitch of canopies, flooding at the
parking lot and the floodplain,stormwater collection, footings, community distribution site,
maintenance of the site (the village has no responsibility for this), removal after lease is
complete, and the number of car charging stations available.

3

The Village Engineer noted that the application is in the process of special permit approval but
will return to the Planning Board for site plan approval. The applicant will have to go to the ZBA
for a variance.
The Planning Board reviewed the special permit application and the objectives, as stipulated in
230-58:
A. Accessibility to fire and police protection:
a. The train station parking lot is located near fire and police protection. The
Harmon firehouse is nearby down the street of South Riverside Avenue. The
village fire department is in the process of developing a pre-plan to address a
possible fire at the proposed battery energy storage system (BESS). The BESS
will also incorporate code required for fire safety and monitoring systems.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character…
a. The Croton Harmon Train Station parking lot is located in the Light Industrial
District and the solar canopies are an allowable use in this district. Because of
the proposed location of the project along the Metro North property line, the
applicant will have to submit a side yard variance application to the Zoning Board
of Appeals.
C. The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic…
a. The Planning Board agreed that the safety, convenience and congruity with the
normal traffic is only an issue when the solar canopies are being constructed.
The Planning Board recommended that a construction sequencing and staging
plan that will take parked cars and train station traffic into consideration be
developed during the site plan approval process.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings…
a. The Planning Board agreed that the proposed solar canopies will be a positive
addition to the village and were satisfied with the appearance of the solar
canopies as presented. However, the members agreed that the proposed
battery yard was not attractive and recommended that a landscape plan and
other measures be developed to screen the yard especially for vehicles and
pedestrians using the train station parking lot.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
a. The Planning Board noted that this proposal is in close proximity to the Hudson
River and Croton Bay and requires a robust stormwater management system.
The Planning Board recommends that the applicant provide a more detailed
stormwater management system in its site plan application to protect water
bodies and wetlands and address safety (ice) conditions in the parking lot.

The Planning Board unanimously voted to recommend the solar canopies project to the Village
Board and added to that recommendation that the Village Board consider adding a significant
number of electric car chargers with this project.

4

b) Referral from Village Board on Local Law Introductory 8 of 2021 on Application to amend
Chapter 230 of the Village Code, Zoning, to eliminate the prohibition against video game
and arcade machines, update notification procedures for sheds and update penalties for
offenses.
Chairman Luntz noted that the proposed amendment of Chapter 230 of the Village Code,
Zoning, is to eliminate the prohibition against video game and arcades and Section 1 of the
code is proposed to be deleted in its entirety. The changes in the code also include updating
notifications procedures for sheds, and update penalties for offenses.
The Planning Board reviewed the criteria as set forth in Section 230-180:
1. Whether such change is consistent with the aims and principles embodied in the
chapter as to the particular districts concerned.
The Planning Board agreed that the proposed changes to the Zoning Code were not
inconsistent with purpose as stated in section 230-3 of the Zoning Code.
2. Which areas and establishments in the Village will be directly affected by such change
and in what way they will be affected.
The Planning Board agreed that the proposed change will allow businesses in commercial
zoning areas to incorporate video game/arcade type machines into their business if desired (for
example Croton Corners in the Upper Village). The update for notification procedures for sheds
will apply to any residential zone for residents applying for a variance for a shed, and be less of
a burden during the zoning application process. The change to penalties for offenses will assist
with zoning compliance village-wide.
3. The indirect implications of such change in its effect on other regulations.
The Planning Board noted that these updates have no indirect implications on other regulations.
4. Whether such proposed amendment is consistent with the aims of the Comprehensive
Plan of the Village.
The Planning Board agreed that these updates are not inconsistent with the aims of the
Comprehensive Plan of the Village.
The Planning Board unanimously voted to recommend to the Village Board the amendment of
Zoning code to eliminate the prohibition against video game and arcade machines, update
notification procedures for sheds and update penalties for offenses.
4. DISCUSSION ITEMS
a) Croton Conservation Advisory Council Liaison with Planning Board
Janet Monahan, Chair of the CAC, explained that the council has new members and as part of
the original mission of the CAC (as noted in the Open Space Inventory of 1996), the members
5

would like to get to know the Planning Board and Zoning Board members. Three members of
the CAC volunteered to be liaisons to these boards. She invited a member of the Planning
Board to attend a meeting, but if no one is able to attend, the committee will keep the Planning
Board informed of their discussions. Ms. Monahan gave examples of how the CAC might be
involved: the CAC can discuss the beautification of the solar canopies, tree replacements if
there are solar arrays at HNGC, recommendations for native bushes at the 41-51 Maple Street
development, etc.
Chairman Luntz thanked Ms. Monahan for her letter and the CAC’s reaching out to the Planning
Board.
5. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of July 27, 2021, as amended, seconded
by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:45 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

6

