Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting on
July 13, 2021
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of July 13, 2021 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Joe Lippolis of BHHS RiverTowns Real Estate Inc on behalf of Warren Koch and Julie
Huston (owners)--368 South Riverside Avenue (Section 79.13 Block 1 Lot 71)-Application for Amended Site Plan approval for an existing detached building in the C-2
Commercial/South Riverside Gateway District.
Mr. Joe Lippolis, representing the owners of 368 South Riverside Avenue, explained that he had
received a variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals for a detached accessory structure in the
C-2 Commercial/South Riverside Gateway zoning district and subsequently the Village Board
had issued a special permit for the detached accessory structure. He is now applying for the
required site plan approval from the Planning Board.
The Planning Board members noted that they were familiar with the application since they had
made a recommendation to the Village Board for the special permit. A public hearing will be
scheduled for July 27, 2021.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to schedule a public hearing for July 27, 2021, seconded
by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Gomes, Davide--208 Cleveland Drive (Sec. 68.17 Block 3 Lot 5)--Application for
Minor Site Plan approval for new single-family dwelling.
Chairman Luntz noted that the Planning Board had received a lot of correspondence on this
application, both about the building and the landscaping.
The Planning Board members acknowledged that some of the screening concerns had been
addressed by the proposed planting of arborvitae on each side of the property, but they wanted

to know how tall the arborvitae (green giant) would be and what landscaping is being proposed
for the front of the house. The Planning Board agreed that a more robust plan for the front of
the house would improve how the house meets the street and would help the house fit more into
the neighborhood.
After a lengthy discussion on the landscaping, the Planning Board requested that Mr. Gomes
plant taller arborvitae (6-7 ft) on the sides of the house instead of the smaller ones indicated on
the landscape plan. The larger trees would provide more screening sooner.
The six hemlocks in the front of the property will be removed. He pointed out that there are
decorative landscaped beds in front of the house.
He stated that he did not want to screen his house, other houses in the neighborhood had the
front of their houses open with no screening.
The Planning Board members discussed the extent of screening in the front of the property, and
Mr. Krisky stated that although he understood that the applicant wants to see the house, it was
Mr. Krisky’s belief that it behooves the Planning Board to address the scale of the house by
asking for more landscaping in the front.
After further discussion, it was agreed that the installation of a low stone wall in front of the
property where the hemlocks were being removed, with a small hedge of boxwoods and low
LED lighting in front would enhance the landscape plan and help the scale of the house and
how the house visually meets the street.
Chairman Luntz stated that he wanted to clarify his comments from the last Planning Board
meeting--it was not his intention to imply that people could build whatever they wanted on their
lot, rather, a person is allowed to build a house if it is within the zoning confines of that district,
conforms to the Village Building Code and meets the FAR requirements and the reasonable
requirements of the Planning Board.
The proposed house is 3300 sq. feet, the maximum allowable footage is 3800 sq. feet. If any
future additional changes are made (e.g. a finished basement or bonus room), and it goes over
the maximum FAR, the applicant would be required to go to the Zoning Board for a variance,
not to the Planning Board.
The majority of the Planning Board agreed that no new landscape plan was required to be
submitted, however the following conditions would be added to the resolution:
1. 6-7 Ft. Arborvitaes (green giant) will be planted on both sides for screening
purposes. This will provide for better screening sooner.
2. An additional red maple or a species comparable will be planted to the right of
the driveway facing the house.
3. A low stone wall is to be constructed across the entire frontage of premises, with
a low boxwood hedge behind wall, and with low voltage lighting in front of wall.

4. An additional WHEREAS clause is to be included which states that an easement
providing a sewer connection has been filed.
MOTION: Chairman Luntz asked if anyone in the audience would like to make a comment,
hearing no one, Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the draft resolution, as amended with
the above noted additional conditions, and seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by
a vote of 4-0 and one NAY (Mr. Krisky).
b) Croton Riverside LLC -- 25 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.8 Block 5 Lots 42, 43, 59, and
60)--Application for preliminary subdivision site plan, and steep slopes permit approval for 39unit apartment building.
Present: Mr. Ralph Rossi,P.E., Phil Spagnoli, and Brian Watts, P.E.
The applicants updated the Planning Board on Chazen’s comments; they had submitted plans
to Chazen for a technical review on the soil nail wall and had received positive feedback.
At present, they are now considering a possible modular geogrid tiered block wall. They will
submit a plan for this if possible for the next meeting so that the Planning Board has both the
soil nail wall and modular geogrid wall plans.
The applicants updated the board on the status of the utility easement, some SWPPP details
and the final landscaping. The Planning Board reviewed the comments from the Advisory Board
of the Visual Environment, but the applicants noted that 20 ft. of the ADA compliant rampway is
under NYSDOT ownership, so it is not up to them. That said, they will bring in a final
landscaping plan and rendering.
4. REFERRALS
a) Circle School -- 199 Maple Street (Sec. 78.08 Block 7 Lot 8) --Referral from Village
Board for review by the Planning Board on Special Permit.
Ms. Joanne Downey 85 Hastings, teacher at Circle for 29 years, explained that Circle School
had left the Lutheran Church last September because the church had other plans for the space.
Circle School had the opportunity to rent space at the former Children Space day care center on
Maple Street for its preschool. There will be no changes to the existing space, and it is already
set up with safety features. The goal is to have 30 children each in two sessions--one morning
session (9:00 - 11:45) and one afternoon session 12:30-2:45. The youngest age group is 2
years old, the oldest age group is 4 years old.
Ms. Downey explained that the outdoor area at 119 Maple Street has different levels which is an
improvement from the space at the Lutheran Church. With the new space, the different age
classes can now go outside at the same time. There will be more opportunity to teach outdoors,
especially with some parents still having pandemic concerns.

The blacktop area is not used for parking, it will be used for the children during school hours to
ride tricycles and toy cars as well as for dramatic play.
Ms. Horowitz, owner of the building, and previous owner/director of Children Space, stated that
the parking situation should be in the preschool’s favor. She had previously opened up at 7
a.m. when there was increased traffic from commuters, and there were no parking issues. In
addition, there are 30-minute parking spaces in front on Maple Street. Her teachers also never
had a problem parking.
The Village Engineer noted that the daycare had gone to the ZBA back in 1984 to address the
lack of on-site parking, and the ZBA granted a variance for two off-street parking spaces. This
variance runs with the land.
The Planning Board reviewed the criteria for a special permit as required by Section 230-58,
and agreed that nothing had changed from the space’s previous use as a daycare to a nursery
school. The Planning Board unanimously recommends the special permit be granted to Circle
School, and a memo will be sent to the Village Board.
5. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of June 22, 2021, as amended, seconded by
Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried all in favor by 5-0.
4. DISCUSSION OF NON-AGENDA ITEMS
● Katz Property (41-51 Maple): Mr. Kauderer raised the issue of the neighbors’ concerns
about the 50 ft. wooded buffer zone being changed in any way. He stated that no
retaining wall should be constructed in this buffer zone. It is his belief that once the
residents see the alternative vegetation being proposed for the buffer zone, they will like
it better than what is already there. A rendering should visually help the neighbors see
the improvement.
● Half Moon Bay Promenade: Mr. Kauderer stated that he believes the Planning Board,
as a defendant in the suit against them regarding the Half Moon Bay promenade, should
be updated and informed of the status of this case. The Planning Board agreed that
they would like to have an Advice of Counsel with Linda Whitehead in order to be
updated.
● Planning Trends: Mr. Haynes brought up the increasingly common concerns from
neighbors about the trend of building large homes on small properties. Mr. Krisky
agreed and said that this issue has been an ongoing concern to him as well. The Village
Engineer suggested that the Planning Board define what the problem is with examples,
code requirements, and recommended doing research about the FAR requirements of
other towns/villages.

5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10: 30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

