Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
July 27, 2021
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney
1. Call to order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of July 27, 2021 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Joe Lippolis of BHHS RiverTowns Real Estate Inc on behalf of Warren Koch and Julie
Huston (owners)--368 South Riverside Avenue (Section 79.13 Block 1 Lot 71)-Application for Amended Site Plan approval for an existing detached building in the C-2
Commercial/South Riverside Gateway District.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and
the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
There being no comments from the public, Mr. Kauderer made a motion to close the public
hearing, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
MOTION: The Planning Board agreed that all questions had been answered in previous
presentations to the Planning Board.
MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to approve the resolution granting amended site approval
for an existing detached building in the C-2 Commercial/South Riverside Gateway District,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
b) Regan Development Corporation (contract vendee) --41-51 Maple Street (aka “Katz
Property”) (Section 78.12 Block 3 Lot 3)--Application for site plan approval for a
multifamily residential development consisting of 33 apartments within two 2-story
buildings.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Krisky,
and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.

Mr. Aaron Werner, representing AKRF, was present and Mr. Jamie Easton, civil engineer of
Prime Companies, was on the phone.
Mr. Easton stated this application for two buildings with a total of 33 units had received a special
permit from the Board of Trustees. There will be a mix of one, two, and three-bedroom
apartments, a minimum of 55 parking spaces are required by Village Code, and there a 50 ft.
buffer zone between the neighbors and the proposed development.
The following changes were made since the July 13, 2021 Planning Board meeting: there is
proposed a sidewalk on the west side of Maple Street which will extend all the way up to Wells
Avenue; the guard rail may change since this is dependent on the NYSDOT. The NYSDOT will
review the guide rail and utility pole; Mr. Easton reiterated that the sidewalk (or path) is within
the DOT Right of Way and therefore all design elements are determined by the NYSDOT
specifications.
Mr. Easton noted that there will be additional landscaping added to the buffer zone, they will
provide a rendering of the northern buffer area and plan to revise the grading. As noted on C12 of the plan set, the graded slope will have the least impact on the buffer zone.
Westchester County is reviewing the bus shelter but is not relocating this bus stop.
Mr. Easton stated that the team from Regan Development met with concerned homeowners
from Wells Avenue on July10, 2021. He stated that the two largest concerns expressed by the
homeowners are:
●
●

The neighbors do not believe that the larger recreational space to the west of Building 2
is an appropriate location for that area nor do they think it is necessary.
The residents understand that the grade can be in the buffer area, but would like to more
greatly reduce the impacts to this area and their properties. The residents would like to
save some of the large specimen trees that exist in this buffer area.

Mr. Easton stated that in order to reduce the grading disturbance in this area, he is suggesting
the elimination of 3-5 parking spaces on the northwest side of Building 2 which would reduce
the impact further on 7 Wells Avenue. The existing vegetation would remain and the specimen
trees between 3 and 5 Wells Avenue would be protected.
The homeowners on Beekman expressed concerns that there wasn’t a lot of vegetation on that
side, and Mr. Easton proposed supplementing the landscaping with conifer trees. He stated
that the Beekman Avenue neighbors found this satisfactory.
Mr. Easton stated that these are possible alternatives to reduce the impact to neighbors and it
was up to the Planning Board to decide and direct him to progress in whatever direction they
decide. Regan Development was satisfied with the 55 parking spaces instead of 60 spaces.

2

The Planning Board further discussed the guard rail’s location, but Mr. Easton stated that guard
rails are considered a hazard by NYSDOT and don’t usually utilize guide rails. In response to a
question about installing curbs, Mr. Easton stated that they are not proposing a curb since it
changes drainage patterns from 1 Wells to the proposed development property and there would
be an impact to the water and sewer lines. The NYSDOT does not require a curb. Mr. Easton
stated that curbs are usually installed for drainage purposes, not pedestrian safety.
The Planning Board discussed at length the reduction of parking spaces and came to the
conclusion that the reduction of 5 spaces to the minimum required 55 spaces would be
sufficient. The Planning Board members were satisfied that the 55 parking spaces not only met
the minimum requirement of the Village Code but importantly would further reduce the impact to
7 Wells Avenue (from a 12 ft. to 35 ft.) The ratio of cars to units is 1.67 greater than the
minimum requirement of 1.5.
The Planning Board also agreed that the flattened recreation area that previously the Planning
Board had requested may not be necessary and would greatly reduce the impacts of the
grading near the Wells Avenue neighbors. The Planning Board noted that there are many
village parks accessible to residents and the waterfront is close by to this property.
The Planning Board agreed that the small pocket park near the corner of Municipal Place and
Maple had a simple design and appears to be the right size.
Public comments:
● Peter Schuyler, resident of Croton, lawyer, stated he represents five out of 6
neighbors,1, 3, 5, 7, 59 Beekman, and is confident based on the meeting with the
homeowners, that Mr. Easton and Regan Development will be able to address the
concerns of the neighbors. Based on neighbors’ comments, the design has to be
changed to reduce the parking spaces and eliminate the recreation area. He mentioned
that the neighbor at 1 Wells Avenue was concerned about sidewalks being installed in
front of his property.
●

Jeff Lawton, 64 Beekman, stated he is an attorney and wants to be reassured that there
will be a 50 ft. buffer zone at his property since he had heard that the original proposal
did not include the 50 ft. buffer zone in front of 64 Beekman.
Chairman Luntz stated that there has been a discussion about a retaining wall into the
buffer zone but the applicant is removing this flat area for recreation space so that the
property can be graded down and the buffer zone retained in this location.

●
●
●

John Hrycko, 59 Beekman, stated it was very important to him to have 50 ft buffer in that
development, and expressed concerns about how it would affect his property values.
Katie Brosnan, 15 Wells Avenue, had concerns about the lighting (no light will be emitted
outside the property based on the plan shown on C-9 of the site plan set), balconies
3

(there will be no balconies), and noise from the generators. She asked whether there
will be a maintenance plan for the landscaping. She also expressed concerns about the
type of soil on the site, and the impact on parking on Wells Avenue, the impact on
property values and how tenants would be chosen.
The Village Attorney stated that the property is marketed more broadly to the entire
county, but those applying have to qualify for affordable housing and are chosen through
a lottery system. The bulk of the applicants often tend to be more local.
The Planning Board agreed that there were not a lot of other locations for the dumpsters
and generators.
●

Nasry Michelen, 11 Wells Avenue, stated that his property directly faces the property at
41-51 Maple. He has no issue with affordable housing but is concerned about the
impact on parking on Wells Avenue and on taxes.
Mr. Kauderer stated that in response to the concerns about property taxes, the elected
village representatives thought that this was the best decision for this property, and that
the Planning Board is bound by that decision.
Mr. Krisky stated that he is proud to be in a community that provides affordable housing
and will make the village a more diverse community.

The Planning Board agreed to keep the public hearing open until the next meeting.
The Planning Board gave the following directions to Mr. Easton:
● The Planning Board is comfortable with the reduction of parking spaces from 60 spaces
to 55 spaces;
● The Planning Board is comfortable with the idea to remove the additional 6 ft. retaining
wall on the hillside buffer zone on the Beekman Avenue side;
● The Planning Board members were comfortable with the idea of removing the recreation
area to retain the buffer zone;
● The applicant should provide renderings pointing towards Beekman Avenue and show
what the landscaping looks like and any more updated renderings on the front of the
building for better street views and more accuracy on the design of the buildings;
● If possible, could Mr. Easton get more information on the guard rail/sidewalk design from
the NYSDOT to hear what they would recommend?
● Could Mr. Easton make sure that everything is complete according to Chazens’
comments?
● An updated rendering of the small pocket park with a number of benches and
landscaping.
Mr. Easton stated that he will be present at the next meeting on August 10, 2021.

4

Chairman Luntz stated that the applicant is to come back with a revised plan and that the public
hearing will be kept open.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of July 13, 2021, as amended, seconded
by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
DISCUSSION OF NON-AGENDA ITEMS
● Prickly Pear Hill Road: Brief discussion about the swale down the road
● ShopRite Parking Lot: Mr. Krisky noted that the parking lot at ShopRite has concrete
pieces on the driveway, stop signs are precariously sitting on cement bottoms, and the
striping and hatching are difficult to see and need new paint. The Village Engineer
stated that he and the Code Enforcement Officer will take a look.
● Bike Pedestrian path between Half Moon Bay and Metro North: Mr. Krisky noted that the
poor conditions of the path should be addressed and that the HOA of Half Moon Bay
should bear the responsibility.
● Status of the sidewalk in front of Croton Commons: no action yet.
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:15 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

5

