CoH Bike/Ped
7/21 Meeting

Minutes:
CROTON-ON-HUDSON BIKE-PEDESTRIAN COMMITTEE
Wednesday, July 21, 2021
Municipal Building, Small Meeting Room
PRESENT: Matthew Schuerman, Marc Albrecht,Matt Arnold, Donald Bane, Amos Bloomberg, Robert
Olsson, Trustee Len Simon (ex officio).

1. Approve Minutes from June 23 Meeting
● No minutes from last month’s meeting to approve
2. Announcements:
● Ribbon Cutting of Croton Point Avenue project 10 a.m., Wed., July 28
● Amos planning to attend to represent BPC
● Matthew’s meeting with the mayor – topics shared:
● Submitted letter [details…]
● Request to replace No Parking sign outside of Giovanni’s Deli – replace with No
Stopping No Parking, No Standing
● Slow Down Croton – reviewed meme contest idea; Mayor Pugh endorsed
● Discussed Safe Driving training for Village employees
3. OLD BUSINESS
1. SLOW DOWN CROTON
1. School Curriculum Ideas (Matt & Erik)
● Ideas:
● NHTSA curriculum as a starting point – and append w/ additional
bicycle safety content
● https://www.nhtsa.gov/pedestrian-safety/child-pedestrian
-safety-curriculum
● https://www.nhtsa.gov/road-safety/bicycle-safety
● Work with CET and PVC principals on further ideas and
possibilities/constraints
● Identify a teacher “champion” per grade to promote bike-ped
learning
● Incentives for young drivers to take a training (e.g., insurance
reduction)
● Continue bike rodeo(s) and group walks
● Next steps: Matt and Eric to meet and share ideas with Michael Plotkin
● Additional resources:
● https://www.saferoutespartnership.org/state/bestpractices/curricu
lum
● https://www.actionforhealthykids.org/activity/bike-to-school/
● https://www.nhtsa.gov/pedestrian-safety/child-pedestrian-safetycurriculum

2. Update on 70 new signs (Robert)
● Signs delivered to Croton PD
● Discussion on sign placement – esp. on non-private property and
“right-of-way” space(s) [6ft. from road if no sidewalk; space between road
and sidewalk]
3. Meme competition/T-Shirts & Gift Certificates
● Mayor OK’d
● Amos to work on plan; targeting mid-to-late-Sept launch
4. Additional media (Tom Smith’s idea for small stickers, etc.)
● Size: 3.5x5.5in
● For business’s windows to show support
● Bumper/Laptop
● Tom Smith offered to pay for first printing run [500?]
● Distribution? – via schools (upon completion of pledge), shops,
restaurants, etc.
● Idea: list of pledge items (pick one) – e.g., pledge not to exceed 25 mph,
etc.
● Future idea: collaborate with other neighboring towns to expand the
campaign
5. Contributions from business community
● T-shirts? Acceptable way to promote and collect funds?
● Len looking into the funding mechanism options
6. Update on Walking School Bus
● MOF doesn’t want to do it; too extended; BPC not committed
7. Other steps
..
●
2. Stop line on Old Post North at Route 129/Maple (Robert)
● Agree to make formal request.Matthew to raise to Mayor
● Second request – remove 2 parking spaces at Grand/OPRN corner (St.
Augustine) dive to visibility
● For next meeting agenda: Formal process for (reviewing and) submitting
improvement requests to the Village

4. NEW BUSINESS
1. NYS Clean Transportation Project Grant (Marc)
● FHWA allocation – TAP, CMAQ
● Attended webinar on Monday
● Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP) is something the Village can apply to
(80/20 grants)
● Could be a source of funding for many of the improvements/projects
outlined in the Committee’s Master Plan
● Deadline – Tuesday, Aug 17th
● BPC endorses Mayor Pugh's idea to apply for funding for Dummy Light
reconfiguration as BPC had endorsed in 2019 (turning the signaled intersection
into an all-stop one; flashing red light with oversized stop signs; add bulbouts to
improve pedestrian safety.,
2. New York Metropolitan Transportation Council Plan 2050 (Marc)

●
●

Outline of Plan 2050 and Our Potential Participation in it
Discussion of draft comment
● Draft plan – appendix that addresses bike/ped issues; Marc has provided
comments
● Summary: Add Croton Point Ave. project; reference to Putnam County
bikeway master plan; Is there a similar Westchester plan? Empire State
Trail – NYMTA focus; etc. Secure bicycle storage at transit stations;
coordination across municipal equipment boundaries; connectivity
between area municipalities, etc.
● Agreed to submit comments on behalf of the committee; committee
members review and submit feedback to Marc by July 25th; submission
deadline on July 27th

Table and add to next month’s agenda:
1. Sidewalk Repair Enforcement Campaign
1. Future of 60/40 sidewalk repair split
2. Future guests to BPC meetings (Marc)

Proposed guests:
●
●

Village Manager (Bryan) as guest for Sept. meeting.
Enforcement (Peter)

Actions:
– Comments on NYMTC draft to Marc by 7/25
– Meeting w/ Plotkin on Curriculum
– Robert to follow-up on stickers
– Len to follow-up on funding process for t-shirts
Next meeting 9/22

