MINUTES – Croton Sustainability Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Sept. 26, 2021 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin

Joel Gingold

Dan Columbini
Jon Katz

Niall Kelleher

Absent:
Bernie Yozwiak (on vacation)
Len Simon (family issue)
Brian Pugh (mayoral commitment)

[Bracketed] text mean subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): Ms. Adlin Hadad, public relations consultant
Announcements: Thank you to Dan Colombini for providing zoom service for our meeting.
Introductions: Joel introduced Ms. Hadad and her interest in assisting our committee. She has
done similar PR work both professionally and for other organizations, including C100. Her
professional work includes video and marketing services for ESPN, Bloomberg, and others.
She agreed to provide up to several hours a month of her time for our committee. We discussed
the use of social media and public relations as a way to secure community and Village support
for our work. Presence on Facebook and other online venues also helps secure points needed
to maintain our silver Climate Smart Community (CSC) status and assist with securing grants.
To that end, Lindsay will send her a link to the CSC’s “social media” and related task pages and
tips on getting started on the tasks. [done 9/27/21]
She agreed to produce by Oct. 20 a draft PR outline/plan for our review based on our financial
and time limitations. She will review our existing web page (https://www.crotononhudsonny.gov/sustainability-committee) at the Village’s web site and coverage on its Facebook page
(https://www.facebook.com/CrotonGov/ ). She will provide feedback on how to improve/fix it to
be more engaging and informative to the general population.
Lindsay suggested a way to get us more “face time” with other communities might be a zoom to
include nearby communities also heavily involved in the CEC and CSC programs. Presenters
would include the 6 Mid-Hudson municipalities that have secured at least 5,000 points in the
CEC program: Hastings, Bedford, Dobbs Ferry, Town of Mamaroneck, City of Kingston, and
Croton. The goal would be to trade experiences and plans for spending their respective CEC
grants. Other communities would be invited to attend, ask questions, but not present. Lindsay
will flesh out the idea for Adlin’s review before our Oct. 24 meeting.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants
All four of the Mid-Hudson region’s $70K grants have now been allocated. The winners were:
Hastings, Croton, Bedford, and Dobbs Ferry. They were the first to reach the necessary 5,000point threshold. In late July, the Town of Mamaroneck reached 5,100 CEC points, and (in early
Sept.) the City of Kingston got to 5,200 points. Both were too late to score a $70K grant. No
other municipality in the other regions of the State has yet done so.
1

On Aug. 16, the VB passed a resolution allowing the mayor to sign the NYSERDA-required
Letter of Commitment that must be submitted with our grant applications. The Village’s attorney
provided desired changes to two sections of the NYSERDA contract.
Last-minute grant issues got us a two-month extension of our deadlines, to Oct. 20 and 26. Our
$5K grant application for a metered heat pump water heater (HPWH) was nevertheless
submitted Aug. 28. Those funds were received by the Village on Sept. 23. While other
applications are now ready for submission, they are being held pending release of a new
program Guidance Document that may contain beneficial rule changes.
- Washington Engine firehouse projects
The following will be submitted for grant funding:
- a 37.3 kWp solar rooftop at the Washington Engine firehouse (to include a 166-foot OSHArequired safety railing) was summarized by Lindsay. Its total cost (net of incentives) of ~$85K
will be fully covered by our $70K and $20K grants. The remaining ~$5K may be needed to
handle unforeseen costs, e.g., higher panel costs. To move ahead, he will meet with Village
staff to assemble a RFP. We presently have one proposal and scope of work (SOW) from
Croton Energy Group (CEG). Other projects each cost less than the $20K threshold above
which a formal bid process is required.
- a control system to integrate five existing ASHPs with the firehouse’s oil-fired hydronic system
to cut fuel oil use was summarized by Jon. It will cost ~$13.4K, fully covered by our $10K and
one of our $5K grants. He produced a SOW and got a proposal from a local contractor (Carey &
Walsh). We thanked Jon for the great work he did for us, and for putting up with Lindsay’s
pushiness. Once our grant app is approved (probably late Oct.), we’ll meet with Village staff to
review and schedule the project.
- Other grant-supported projects
A HPWH will replace an electric resistance DHW unit in the Municipal Building. The job will
include water and electric metering to quantify savings. Cost will be covered by our remaining
$5K grant. Another HPWH that was proposed for the DPW building could not proceed due to a
recent issue with the building’s well water supply system. After Dan has a chance to view the
site in the Muni Bldg, he and Lindsay will assemble a SOW. Local HVAC/plumbing firms
experienced with HPWHs will be asked to price the job.
In case another grant comes our way, Bruni & Campisi is prepping a proposal to convert the
Washington firehouse’s boiler from oil to gas. The building already has gas service, and its
existing boiler should be able to accept a gas burner. While a new more efficient burner may
save some energy, such fuel switching is acceptable under NYSERDA’s CEC grant program
because natural gas (for the same Btus) emits about 30% less carbon.
- Other Solar Projects
On the SolSystems’ train station canopies, the VB in August authorized proceeding to final
system design. Due to various technical changes, it will provide 4.009 MWp (down from ~4.7
MWp). Power storage output will be 3.75 MW (up from 2.7) with a capacity of 15 MWh (up from
2

13.5). At its 9/14 meeting, the Planning Board (PB) reviewed some issues (e.g. power storage,
EV charger conduits) but not drainage, i.e., rain and sudden snow melt, coming off the panels.
Drainage is becoming a sticking point with Sol. The PB will discuss it at its 9/28 meeting.
On the DPW canopy to cover its front parking lot (~197 kWp), we continue to await a report
from Con Ed on the feeder voltage spike issue that suspended development of that project.
However, both it and a possible canopy at the Muni Bldg are now in limbo due to reductions in
the NYS Community Credit. Unless raised to its prior levels, neither project is financially viable.
On the Croton Landing Park canopy (~350 kWp), we continue to pursue co-sponsors for
A.6838, the bill that would exempt them in parking lots in parks. Joel reported that there are
now 44 co-sponsors. In early July, Yorktown got (after a year of effort) a special exemption
State law passed. Legal work was done by its town attorney. Other costs (surveyor, filings, etc.)
were covered by HESP Solar (winner of the competitive bid). Multiple calls and emails to HESP
were not returned. Lindsay found that it’s a very small outfit that develops and sells projects to
investors. The deal is built around $500K of financing to pave the parking lot and other areas.
Joel reported on issues surrounding such an exemption, and how amending A.6838 might
finally resolve the matter. As part of the effort to get it passed, Lindsay (on July 23) reviewed the
issue on a WBAI radio show and podcast, and will do so again at the Oct. 19 zoom of the
Village of Mamaroneck’s sustainability committee.
Other local solar projects (in which we are not involved) either in development or just finished,
are in Ossining (Maryknoll), two in Yorktown (Granite Knolls Park, and at a nursing home),
White Plains (a hospital), and Cortlandt Manor (a farm). Dan O’Connor and Lindsay attended
the Sept. 14 ribbon-cutting at the 874 kWp Maryknoll site, consisting of 12 canopies over its two
parking lots. The nursing home site will have 700 kWp split between a rooftop and parking
canopies, plus a 660-kWh battery. Westchester Community College just (7/21/21) issued a RFI
for 9 campus sites that includes rooftops and parking canopies.
[After the meeting, Ecogy informed us that consolidated billing (which makes community solar
much easier) is almost at hand: “It should take 1-2 months to go into effect from approval, so
the DPW subscribers will {then} move off of the two-bill system.” Unfortunately, Ecogy’s Shrub
Oak system – from which our Community Solar 2.0 subscribers were to get power - was “killed”
due to permitting issues that the commercial property host was unable to overcome. Ecogy
won’t have another project to serve those subscribers (which includes most committee
members) until Q1 2022: “Unfortunately all of our projects in ConEd have been delayed due to
permitting, supply chain and labor shortages”.]
- EV/EVSE
For Drive Electric Week, we co-sponsored a Sept. 25 EV show with Croton100/CURE100 at the
parking lot at Senasqua Park. Niall showed off his new 2021 Nissan Leaf. We provided updated
“Kiss Your Gas Goodbye” flyers, and assisted with Village-sponsored promotional efforts. Niall
reported that there was a decent turnout, and he handed out 10 of our flyers. Most of the EVs
were Teslas, but a Volvo Polestar SUV was also shown.
Regarding a rumor heard at the event about the school district having received an EV school
bus, Joseph Bernardi (Transportation Supervisor for the district) stated the following on 9/27/21:
3

Good afternoon Lindsay, Please be aware that the Electric vehicles have not been purchased yet
as we are still waiting on the NYSERDA grants to be secured.
We have been working diligently with our Bus Provider to keep abreast of the status of the grants.
Once we receive any notification regarding the grants either way, we will advise the community.

As of Sept. 15, NYSERDA incentives for EV chargers have run out. Funding for related electric
service upgrades (i.e., “EV infrastructure”) continues to be available at 90% for public charge
sites and 50% for non-public sites (e.g., for municipal/school/employee vehicles).
- Reports

Niall summarized a webinar he attended on replacing diesel fuel with methanol, a potentially
renewable fuel if made from plants such as corn or switchgrass. The Village’s diesel-fueled
trucks account for 30+% of our municipal carbon footprint. Reasonably-priced EV versions of
the Village’s trucks may be a decade away, so we are keeping an eye on other ways to cut
truck carbon.
Fuel replacement (instead of electrification) may make more sense for large (e.g., garbage)
trucks unless the cost of very large EV batteries drops significantly and a network of Level 3 DC
chargers is developed to charge them.
Niall reported that methanol supply and distribution is developing in Europe and Israel, but not
yet in the U.S. To demo the opportunity, engines of several large diesel vehicles (including
tractor-trailers) are being modified to accept methanol. It may be 2-3 years (or more) before
routine engine modification and supply/distribution services are available in those countries.
- Communications
In May, Yorktown passed a law to regulate battery installations using NYSERDA’s Model Law,
as detailed in its “NY Battery Energy Storage System Guidebook for Local Governments”.
Bernie recently took a webinar series on power storage that provided hard copies of that
Guidebook, one of which was sent to Village Engineer Dan O’Connor. Bernie will report on
those webinars at our October meeting.
[At the 9/28/21 meeting of the school district’s Environmental Sustainability Committee, we
learned that the district’s composting program was suspended in Jan. 2020 due to COVID. It
may not be re-started until spring 2022. The district’s Energy Performance Contract (EPC) is,
however, a “go”, with State Education Dept. funding secured last week. Installation work will be
done in phases based on weather (e.g., heating controls after this winter, solar panels during
the summer). LED lighting will be done room-by-room during off-hours to avoid disruptions.
Bottom line: watch for progress starting spring-summer 2022.]
- Recruitment/Outreach
Dan Oppenheim, formerly with C100, has agreed to assist us with a community GHG inventory.
He agreed to assess the task and get started when he returns from Europe in late October
- New business / other issues
4

At a recent climate-related event, Bernie met Gunnel Rydstrom, a member of Green Ossining
(GO), a non-governmental group similar to our committee. She asked Bernie about Croton’s
EVs and chargers. Lindsay emailed information about it to her. While reviewing other GO
activities, he learned that it had a DEC grant for food scrap recycling nearly identical to our own
~$11K DEC grant (dormant due to COVID and other reasons).
Committee members discussed engaging Green Ossining to manage our food scrap recycling
program as a contractor under our DEC grant. If we are to move ahead on that program for next
spring, we need everything (site, participants, buckets, flyers) in place before the end of next
March. Handing over most of the work (and the grant $) to GO might be a way to manage those
tasks. Otherwise, we may need to return the grant, which runs out in October 2022.
After a brief discussion, all attending members authorized Lindsay to approach Rydstrom and
GO to see if they may be interested in such an arrangement. [Lindsay later learned that the
Town government was actually running the program. He has approached Victoria Cafarelli,
program coordinator for the Town, to assess the option.]
Date for our next zoom meeting was set for Sunday, October 24 at 10:30 AM.

5

