Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
September 14, 2021
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney
1. Call to order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of September 14, 2021 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Tokke, Hans (Croton Corners LLC) --124 Grand Street (Sec. 78.8 Block 7 Lot 4)-Application for final approval for signage for new retail store, soda shop, arcade.
PRESENT: Mr. Hans Tokke, owner of Croton Corners LLC
Mr. Tokke explained that he had submitted his application to the VEB and the members had
expressed many objections and concerns about his first sign submission. There had been a
lengthy back and forth discussion, and he subsequently revised his signage and resubmitted it.
The second sign submission is more traditional than the first one was. Mr. Tokke brought in a
sample of one of the hanging signs to the Planning Board. Three signs will be on the Old Post
Road South side. Mr. Tokke got permission from the landlord to drill into the concrete and install
the vintage ironwork scrolls to hang the signs. The three-tiered sign facing Grand Street side
will lie flat against the wall. All the signs are hand-painted.
In response to a question about illumination, Mr. Tokke explained there will be four overheads
for lighting, all LED.
The Planning Board was satisfied that the applicant and the VEB had found some common
ground from their initial discussions and were satisfied with the result. The Planning Board
waived the maximum requirement of two signs to allow for five signs.
The Planning Board agreed that the second signage submission did not need to go back to the
Advisory Board of the Visual Environment.

MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the signs as shown in the renderings, and
waive the requirement of two signs to allow for five, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion
carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
b) Croton Riverside LLC--25 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.8. Block 5 Lots 42, 43, 59,
and 60) --Application for preliminary subdivision, site plan, and steep slopes permit
approval for 39-unit apartment building.
PRESENT: Phil Spagnoli and Ralph Rossi, owners
Mr. Rossi explained that at the last meeting they had reviewed the details of the retaining wall
and had proposed two wall designs. Given the size and strain upon the proposed retaining wall,
the alternate design has been referred to Chazen who has not yet returned a report.
Mr. Rossi updated the Planning Board on the status of the Westchester County Health
Department’s approval--they had submitted the proposal to reroute the sanitary sewer
approximately 12 weeks ago. There will be a meeting next week with the engineer at the health
department to discuss this plan. The approval of the sanitary sewer does not affect the site
plan.
Mr. Kauderer asked if the distance between the wall and the rear of the building would remain
15 feet, and Mr. Rossi stated that the distance will remain the same and is not affected by either
wall design.
Mr. Ross stated that they are waiting to have approval from Chazen on this alternative precast
segmented retaining wall design before making a decision and finalizing bids. Prices keep
fluctuating and therefore they want to have Chazen’s approval on both plans (they had already
received comments approving the soil nailed retaining wall design).
Mr. Rossi showed two designs (4A and 4B), the Planning Board agreed that the 4B design with
the precast segmented retaining is preferable and more attractive. The shrubs they are
proposing to plan should grow to approximately 12 feet.
The Planning Board will wait for Chazen’s report prior to the next Planning Board meeting, at
which time the Planning Board may be able to vote on a resolution.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Riverside Gas-- 380 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 79.13 Block 2 Lot 25) -- Application
for amended site plan approval for existing shed on commercial property.
Ms. Dayana Marin explained that she is seeking approval for an existing small shed on the gas
station property. Her husband had built it for his construction work and tools.

Chairman Luntz explained that the shed is too close to the property line and therefore not in a
legal place. The applicant will need to go to the Zoning Board and get a variance for the shed
prior to the Planning Board scheduling a public hearing for the amended site plan application.
Ms. Marin stated she understood and thanked the board.
b) Hudson National Golf Club -- 40 Arrowcrest Drive (Sec. 67.15 Block 1 Lot 4)--Application for amended site plan approval for modifications to its ancillary storage area
located on Prickly Pear Hill Road.
There was no one present to represent the application, however the Planning Board agreed that
they are very familiar with this application and the only item of business for this application is to
call for a public hearing for the September 28, 2021 Planning Board meeting.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing on September 28, 2021,
seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
c)

Sol Systems -- Veterans Plaza (Sec. 79.17 Block 2 Lots 10 and p/o 5)---Application for
Amended Site Plan approval for solar canopies and battery energy storage system at
the Croton Harmon Train Station Parking Lot

PRESENT: Mr. Nick Mento, Sol Systems, Mr. Steve Meersma, P.E., and Mr. Brody Smith, Esq.
Mr. Nick Mento provided a summary of the proposed installation of solar canopies on the
western side of the Croton Harmon Train Station parking lot. There will be 8900 solar panels
with a battery energy storage system (BESS) connected to the Con Edison grid.
Mr. Mento outlined the details for the three-phase construction plan in order to minimize the
impact on train station parking. The plan is to close off a section of the parking lot with fencing
and limit parking in the area being constructed, but other sections of the lot could be used.
Mr. Mento stated that they have discussed the setbacks in more detail with the Fire Department.
The Planning Board had an extensive discussion on why there is a need for a battery storage
system. Mr. Mento explained that from a utilities perspective it was a more valuable project and
would provide the maximum amount of energy to the utilities company. The utilities like the
storage system so that they can use it at peak times.
The Planning Board asked about fencing and privacy screening around the storage system.
The members agreed that the storage system is in a visible location and they would like to see it
made more attractive. After some discussion about possibilities, the Planning Board agreed
that plantings installed uphill from the path would improve the screening of this area.
The Planning Board was satisfied with the appearance of the solar canopies.

Other items discussed were: drainage (the applicant is working with the village), contamination
(not found to be “hazardous) soil removal, lighting (LED lighting located underneath the
canopies), bollards around the transformers, conduits for charging stations, and Metro North
requests for plans (Sol Systems will keep Metro North informed and entry permits are required
for Metro North).
The Planning Board asked about adding more conduits for future charging stations at the train
station parking lot and requested that the applicant return with industry standard projections and
current literature on the issue of future charging stations at home or on commercial lots.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing on September 28, 2021,
seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
d) Franzoso, Mark -- 23 Nordica Drive (Sec. 79.13 Block 4 Lot 64) ---Application for
Minor Site Plan approval for the construction of a new single-family dwelling.
PRESENT: Mr. Dan Ciarcia, P.E. and Mark Franzoso, homeowner
Mr. Ciarcia stated that they are here for minor site plan approval for construction of a modular
raised ranch style house with new stormwater and sanitary sewer lines on a vacant lot. The
applicant has received a Lot area variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals last year.
Mr. Ciarcia stated that the steep slope disturbance was below the threshold, however the
Village Engineer pointed out some calculation errors and had determined that with this design
the application would require a steep slope permit. The Village Engineer explained that the
applicant could either amend the application to include a steep slope permit or redesign the
house so it is under the threshold.
Mr. Kauderer asked about which trees would be removed, and Mr. Ciarcia stated that two trees
will be removed where the sewer line is being installed.
Mr. Krisky requested that a landscape plan be submitted.
The Planning Board requested that the applicant return at the next meeting with either a
redesign so as to not require a steep slopes permit, or if a steep slopes permit is needed, the
applicant provide a response to the sixteen criteria required for a steep slopes permit.
The Planning Board members asked Mr. Franzoso about the status of the Piney Point houses.
Mr. Franzoso stated that all the concrete work is completed and the parking areas are filled in.
They are waiting for approval for the steel design for the platforms and once that is received, it
should take about ten days per house to complete. It is his hope to do some planting in the fall
and have roofs over the framed houses by November. The interiors of the houses would then be
completed in the winter.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of August 10, 2021, as amended, seconded
by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 to 0, all in favor. Mr. Krisky noted for the
record that he has volunteered to be the Planning Board liaison to the Conservation Advisory
Committee.
5. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
Mr. Krisky asked for a follow-up about the Shoprite parking lot. The Village Engineer stated that
the Code Enforcement Officer had reached out to the owner twice and the owner had said they
would restripe and resolve the sign issues, but so far nothing has been completed. He will have
the Code Enforcement Officer follow up again.
6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:05 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

