Planning Board Meeting
Minutes of September 28, 2021
Present: Chairman Robert Luntz
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
Bruce Kauderer
Absent: John Ghegan
Also present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli
1. Call to order 8:00 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a. Croton Riverside LLC—25 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 78.8 Block 5 Lots 42,
43, 59, and 60)— Application for consolidation subdivision, site plan, and steep
slopes permit approval for 39-unit apartment building.
PRESENT: Phil Spagnoli and Ralph Rossi
Mr. Rossi stated that Chazen Engineering had reviewed the geogrid retaining wall and provided
three comments which were addressed by the applicant’s engineer. The engineers at Chazen
said it was acceptable to them. Mr. Rossi stated that there were two different plans for the
retaining wall which will give the applicants some flexibility with materials and cost; both are
considered suitable although they prefer the modular blocking as does the Planning Board.
The Planning Board noted that they had already spoken about an increase in the number of
charging stations and the applicants agreed that they would be adding additional conduits to
add more charging stations in the future.
The Village Engineer noted that he and the applicant and DPW, had met with the County Health
Department about the sewer utilities with just a few details to be added to the plan.
It was noted that the easement for tree trimming goes with the property and is a matter of
record.
The Planning Board confirmed that the applicant will choose one number for the address (to be
“25 South Riverside Avenue”) and then individual apartment numbers.
The Planning Board reviewed and discussed the draft resolution.

1

MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to accept the resolution, as amended, seconded by Mr.
Haynes, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan was absent).
The Planning Board reviewed the draft resolution regarding the consolidation subdivision of four
lots into one lot. No changes were recommended.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the consolidation subdivision, seconded by Mr.
Kauderer, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
a) Hudson National Golf Club – 40 Arrowcrest Drive (Sec. 67.15 Block 1 Lot 4)—
Application for amended site plan approval for modifications to its ancillary
storage area located on Prickly Pear Hill Road.
PRESENT: Robert Davis, Esq., Alan Milton, HNGC, Brett Scales, HNGC
Mr. Davis stated that the HNGC had come before the Village Board and the Planning Board for
site plan review and there had been extensive meetings with significant public input with public
hearings at the Village Board and at the Planning Board.
Mr. Davis stated that HNGC had made drainage and screening improvements, a list of
equipment and materials was provided for the ancillary storage area, and the non-disturbance
line revised. Both Chazen and the Village Engineer have been to the site numerous times with
their comments incorporated into the revised plans. They will be putting in a gravel trench near
the trash compactor to mitigate against runoff. HNGC agreed to adding some screening with
evergreen trees, fencing, and hedges. Mr. Davis stated that the applicant was happy to do
whatever is necessary for screening and to go in the field with the Village Engineer to see it in
the winter season when the leaves are off the trees. There will be no food waste in the
dumpster and the resolution will stipulate that none is to be placed in the dumpsters; HNGC has
agreed to extend the swale down to Albany Post Road, and provide more details of the drain
calculations to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer. The site plan is to be revised to reflect a
more permanent edge for the limit of disturbance line and designated “new non-disturbance
area”. The red line is to be drawn by Mr. Mastromonaco, P.E., around the drainage
improvements noted for construction purposes. Repairs will be made to the road to the
satisfaction of the Village engineer. The HNGC agreed to submit as-built plan prior to the
issuance of Certificate of Occupancy to reflect all work as complete.
As discussed with Mr. Scales at the meeting, the Planning Board agreed that it would be more
definitive to note that the height of the aggregate materials is not to exceed 352 elevation and
this is to be placed on the plans.
The Planning Board agreed that all work must be completed by April 30, 2022.

2

MOTION TO OPEN PUBLIC HEARING: Mr. Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing,
seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
Mr. Mitchell Bring, of 12 Prickly Pear Road, stated he lives directly across from the storage area
and appreciated that there will be a gravel drain from the trash compactors as well as no
garbage left in containers. He suggested that for screening the idea of mixing evergreens and
deciduous was to move the area into a more natural look. He suggested that the landscape be
made more viable by trimming the vines and poison ivy and rotting trees to be cleared. All in all,
he stated he was pleased with the improvements that were made.
Mr. Scales of HNGC stated that as part of the original HNGC site plan agreement, fallen trees
were to be left on the ground to benefit the environment.
MOTION TO CLOSE PUBLIC HEARING: There being no further comments to come before
the board, Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Kauderer,
and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the resolution, as amended, seconded by
Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent). The Planning
Board agreed that the expansion of the storage shed is hereby approved.
b) Sol Systems – Veterans Plaza (Sec. 79.17 Block 2 Lots 10 and p/o 5)—
Application for Amended Site Plan approval for solar canopies and battery
energy storage system at the Croton Harmon Train Station Parking Lot.
MOTION TO OPEN PUBLIC HEARING: Mr. Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
The Planning Board discussed the application including the following items:
● Possibilities of changing the water drainage system (to include possible guttering
and gasketing) or the applicant to reimburse the village for snow and ice removal,
to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer and Superintendent of Public Works.
● That, the design and placement of two transformers depicted on the site plan be
approved by the Village Engineer.
● Landscaping and screening around the Battery Energy Storage System to
include plantings along the slope and arborvitae and native plantings,
● To extend plantings onto village property to the bollard area to include five
additional arborvitaes,
● Concerns about pedestrian area with overhead wires and keeping them away
from crossing over the sidewalks
● Adding conduit so as to accommodate future village request for additional
charging stations,
● To include the wetland permit conditions, and
● To require the applicant to obtain a wetland permit from the NYSDEC.
3

MOTION TO CLOSE PUBLIC HEARING: There being no comments made by the public, Mr.
Haynes made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion
carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the resolution, as amended, seconded by
Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried, in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and
the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
11:50 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

4

