Minutes of the Zoning Board of Appeals
Held on
Wednesday, July 14, 2021
PRESENT: Mr. Rocco Mastronardi
Mr. Alex Morales
Chairman Christine Wagner
Mr. Doug Olcott
ABSENT:

James Tuman

Also Present: Ronald Wegner, P.E., Assistant Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order 8:05 p.m.
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board meeting of July 14, 2021 to order at 8:05
p.m. She welcomed Mr. Mastronardi , replacing Mr. Aarons, to the Zoning Board of
Appeals. Chairman Wagner, along with the rest of the members present, expressed
their appreciation and thanks to Mr. Aarons and his long service to the Zoning Board.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Snethen, Mathew--110 Oneida Avenue -- Located in the RA-5 One-Family
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 79.09 Block 10 Lot 27. Request for a front yard variance from Section
230-33(A) for a proposed single-story addition and covered porch on a corner lot
(Whelan and Oneida front yards).
This application was held over from the June ZBA meeting so that the board members could
see the site. Chairman Wagner thanked Mr. Snethen for the site visit, and thought it was very
helpful to see the setbacks. The applicant was seeking relief from the setbacks both on Whelan
(5.3 ft) and Oneida (2 feet).
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application,
closed the public hearing.
The ZBA reviewed the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The Zoning Board of Appeals noted that the applicant had provided letters of support from
neighbors at 98 Oneida, 41 Whelan, and 55 Whelan.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant could potentially be achieved by a method
other than the requested variance; however, a smaller porch would be of limited
use, and an expansion elsewhere on the property does not effectively address
the desire to expand the kitchen.
The Zoning Board members also noted that there is additional space beyond the property lines
to the sidewalks.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The addition is a small one (only 700 sq. feet) and will not have an adverse effect or impact on
the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Morales made a motion to grant the front yard variance of 2 ft. on the Oneida
side, and to grant the 5.3 ft. variance on the Whelan front yard, seconded by Mr. Mastronardi,
and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Tuman absent).
b) Thankachen, Varghese -- 105 Mt. Airy Road South -- Located in the RA-40 OneFamily District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 68.09 Block 4 Lot 17. Request for side and total side yard variances from
Section 230-40G(1) for a proposed addition and for height and location variances from
Section 230-40A(1)(a) and 230-40B for a detached two-car garage in the front yard.
This application was held over from the June ZBA meeting so the board members could visit the
site. Chairman Wagner thanked the applicant and the architect for the opportunity for a site
visit.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and seeing that there was further comments on
the application, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.
The only property affected by the proposed addition and garage is 103 Mt. Airy Road South,
and the neighbors have written to express their support. The members agreed that although the
garage is substantial in height, but again, the only property affected is at 103 Mt. Airy Road
South and this neighbor has no issues with the proposed plan.
The architect noted that the second floor of the garage is storage, and will never be used for
living space since there is only 6.8 feet underneath the ridge. The architecture of the garage is
in keeping with maintaining the character of the house, but it cannot be seen from the road.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the
requested variances; however, other options for the addition would not as effectively
preserve the character of the house. The location of the garage cannot be to the side or
rear of the property if the current garage is to be connected to livable space. The impact
of the height of the garage is minimized by the nature of the lot.
3. The requested variances are substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
Given the nature of the topography and area, the proposed garage and addition does not impact
the physical conditions in the neighborhood. Mr. Mastronardi noted that she had initially had
concerns about how heavy equipment would make it back to the rear of the house, but after
looking at the space to the right of the house, there appeared to be ample space. The addition
is not going to be visible from the street given the area and the vegetation in place.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Morales made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 15 ft. and total side yard
variance of 36.9 feet for the proposed addition, seconded by Mr. Olcott, and the motion carried,
in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Tuman absent).
Mr. Morales made a motion to grant a height variance for the garage of 1.2 inches, and a
variance for the accessory structure located in front of the primary structure, seconded by Mr.
Mastronardi, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Tuman absent).
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Walsh, Noreen and Edward – 72 Thompson Avenue – Located in the RA-5 One-Family
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
79.09 Block 2 Lot 6. Request for a rear yard variance from Section 230-40A(1)(b) for an
existing shed and for a side yard variance from Section 230-33A for enclosed porch.
Mr. Walsh explained that he and his wife had Inherited the property in April and they were
trying
to legalize the porch and the shed.
Chairman Wagner, opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application,
closed the public hearing.
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the proposed variance.

Mr. Walsh stated that his wife is the trustee for the property next door, and so there is no
complaint about the variance needed. No one to his knowledge has complained about the
shed.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant of legalizing and maintaining the use of the existing
structure cannot be achieved other than the requested variance;
3. The requested variance is substantial for the side yard (existing porch), while the
requested variance for the shed is not substantial (only 1 ft. variance requested);
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The existing shed has been there for at least ten years and the porch for over fifty years.
In a response to a question about moving the shed, Mr. Walsh stated he was not sure it would
stay together. If the shed needed to be replaced it would be removed.
5. The alleged difficulty was not self-created.
The current property owners inherited the property and the shed and porch were pre-existing.
MOTION: Mr. Mastronardi made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 6.8 feet for the
existing enclosed porch, seconded by Chairman Wagner, and the motion carried, in favor by a
vote of 4-0 (Mr. Tuman absent).
Mr. Mastronardi made a motion to grant a rear yard variance of approximately 1 ft. for an
existing shed, seconded by Chairman Wagner, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of
4-0 (Mr. Tuman absent). If the shed is to be replaced, it must meet the required setbacks.
b) Copeland, Joel – 18 Thompson Avenue – Located in the RA-5 One-Family District
and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.09
Block 2 Lot 42. Request for total side yard variance from Section 230-33A for proposed
rear addition and deck.
Mr. Copeland stated that the proposed rear addition will be directly behind the house, but the
house has an existing total side yard variance, and therefore they are increasing the degree of
non-conformity.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application,
closed the public hearing.
The Zoning Board of Review reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

Mr. Copeland stated that they had discussed the proposed addition with the side neighbors and
the rear neighbors. There is no proposed obstruction between the neighbors, the addition will
extend to the rear yard. Mr. Morales pointed out that with the addition, the side yard setbacks
are met, just not the total side yard setbacks.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.
The proposed addition has to be in the proposed location (in the center) otherwise the bathroom
would have no windows. Having the proposed addition in a different location would be less
desirable.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning of Appeals agreed that the proposed addition is a small addition and therefore the
variance request is not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions to the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board members noted that the condition is already existing, this is just increasing
the non-conformity.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a 3.8 total side yard variance for a proposed rear
addition and deck, seconded by Mr. Mastronardi, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of
4-0.
c) 1360 Albany Post Road Corp – 1360 Albany Post Road – Located in the Limited O-1
District and Northern Gateway Overlay district and is designated on the Tax Maps of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.10 Block 2 Lots 12 and 13. Request for a
rear yard variance from Section 230-35 for two sheds and outdoor display and materials
canopy.
Mr. Hernandez, architect for the applicant, stated that the sheds and display area with the
canopy had been approved by the Planning Board depending on obtaining a variance from the
ZBA.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application,
closed the public hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The neighbors were informed, and the proposed canopy is not near any houses.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.
There is no other location for the canopy. The applicants are trying to purchase the property
from the NYSDOT but the process has already been taking more than 18 months, and there has
yet to be any resolution.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions to the neighborhood or district.
The environment is not an issue.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
Chairman Wagner made a motion to grant 20 ft rear yard variance for existing sheds and
proposed construction of the canopy as approved by the Planning Board, seconded by Mr.
Morales, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Tuman absent).
3. MINUTES:
The approval of the minutes of the June 9, 2021 Zoning Board of Appeals was held over until
the September meeting.
4. Adjournment:
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

