VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MINUTES
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2021
1. Call to order: 8:00 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) SCS Van Wyck 012823 Croton-on-Hudson, LLC (Andrew Grin representative) –
Veterans’ Plaza – Located in the LI-1 Light Industrial District and designated on
the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.17 Block 2 Lots
10 and p/o 5. Request for side yard and total side yard variances and a variance
from the Waterfront setback for mean high-water line from Section 230-37 of the
Village Code for proposed solar canopies and battery energy storage system at
the Croton Harmon Train Station Parking Lot.
PRESENT: Mr. Brody Smith, attorney; Nick Mento, Steve Meersma, engineer
Mr. Smith explained that their company is in contract with the village to erect solar canopies
(8900 solar panels) and a battery energy storage system. The solar canopies will not only
generate electricity but also provide cover to cars in the winter months. This is a Type II action,
no SEQR is required.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the
public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed and discussed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
Mr. Smith spoke to this factor and stated that the parking lot is adjacent to the railroad
tracks, and is not near any residential uses. The property is currently zoned as
Industrial. The proposed canopies are to be built on an existing municipal parking lot,
and the use of a parking lot will not change with the addition of solar canopies.
When asked about the lighting and reflectivity, Mr. Mento responded that the panels
have an anti-reflective coating to prevent glare, and reports are regularly run on the
amount of glare which is minimal.
The variance request affects Metro North, as its immediate neighbor, and the applicant
stated that they will work with them throughout the operations. The applicant will require
entry permits.

The Zoning Board agreed that this use will benefit the community and the environment.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.
Mr. Smith explained that they cannot build on Parking Lot A area (east) since the village
had stated that they do not want construction on this lot; to the west, there is no
opportunity because it is a railyard. Mr. Smith stated that the proposed project cannot
be made smaller because they are required to have a certain number of solar panels
due to design requirements to meet the needs for covered parking and to make the
proposed project economically viable.
The Zoning Board agreed that there are no alternative locations for this project.
3. The requested variances are substantial.
Mr. Smith stated that if one looks at the math of the variance it would appear substantial,
however if one measures the overall effect of variance and the actual circumstances, the
variance requests are not very substantial since the existing parking lot does not change
and adding solar canopies does not change the use.
The Zoning Board of Appeals believe that the requested variances are substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board of Appeals noted that the proposed solar canopies will have a
beneficial environmental impact and will have no adverse changes to the property. The
canopies will provide clean electricity to the grid and will be an improvement to the
community and the facility. Mr. Smith stated that the footprints for the canopies are
relatively small and the foundations are shallow. He further stated that the amount of
impervious surface will not change and precautions will be taken in terms of dealing with
stormwater during construction. Any contaminated soil that is discovered is proposed to
safely be removed and disposed of.
When asked about snow removal, the applicant stated that they will be installing snow
guards which will prevent snow and ice sheeting and they will be working with Mr. Balbi,
Superintendent of Public Works on the day to day operations. The solar canopies will
not impact the DPW’s snow plowing.
The applicant also noted that the Fire Department is involved regarding clearances
around hydrants and the battery location.

2

It will be in the Planning Board’s purview to review any drainage concerns and discuss
sheet flow coming off the panels in case of heavy precipitation.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
The Assistant Village Engineer stated that he and the Village Engineer had determined
that the Waterfront setback for mean high water line variance is not required due to
sufficient distance between the proposed canopies and the Hudson River.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 28 feet, and a side yard
variance of 39 feet, seconded by Mr. Morales, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in
favor. It was noted by the applicant that the drawing submitted is dated August 2021, and titled
“Conceptual Design.”
b) McCammon, Ross and Nina –10A Mountain Trail—Located in the RA-25 OneFamily Residential district and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.13 Block 2 Lot 15. Request for a side and a
total side yard variance from Section 230-40(G)(1) for an expansion of a deck.
Mr. McCammon stated he and his wife had been before the ZBA in June to request a variance
for a deck project. Because their entire property is sloped, it is challenging to use for children's
play and entertainment, and they are proposing an expansion of the deck to the side of the
house on the Mountain Trail side. They are requesting a side yard variance of 3 feet and total
side yard variance of 8 feet.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the
public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
nearby properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
Mr. McCammon noted that there is considerable privacy screening from foliage
from the neighbors at 8 Mountain Trail, and therefore the proposed project
will not impact the neighbors. The applicants’ house is tucked away from
neighbors’ views. They have support from the next door neighbor and a letter
of support from the neighbor across the street.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than
the requested variance.
Mr. McCammon explained that they are limited to where they can build because
there is a septic tank in the backyard.
3

3. The requested variances are not substantial.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the requested variances were not
substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board noted that the neighbor who would be most impacted by the
proposed project was in support of the project. The existing extensive foliage
between the neighbors provides privacy and the proposed deck construction will
not impact this.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Morales made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 3 feet and total side yard
variance of 8 feet, seconded by Mr. Mastronardi, and motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in
favor.
c) Beebe, Carrie and Scott – 9 Michaels Lane – Located in the RA-5 One-Family
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 67.20 Block 4 Lot 70. Request for a height variance from Village Code
Section 230-40A(1)(a) for replacement of an accessory structure (existing
garage).
Mr. Lewis Roane, architect for the homeowners, stated that the homeowners are replacing an
existing garage with a garage with a storage loft above. The height variance being requested is
due to the additional 3 feet for the structure and 2 feet for cupola. The proposed loft area is for
extra storage. Ms. Beebe explained that due to COVID-19, the nature of her work has changed
and she is now working from home and storage of the equipment she uses for work as a
physical therapist is now being stored in her house and there is no room.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the
public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed and discussed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

4

Ms. Beebe stated that she had spoken to her neighbor on Michaels Lane and they had
no objections. Neighbors who have walked by her house seem to like the improvements
they have done to the house.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that the design was attractive and the proposed
project would improve the character of the neighborhood.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.
The garage is behind the shed, and they are replacing an existing structure.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The request for a five-foot variance is only three feet for the structure to incorporate the
storage area, but also 2 feet for the design element of the cupola.
The Zoning Board agreed the height variance is not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
Mr. Roane stated that the height of the garage will not impact or obstruct any neighbors’
views as the house sits on the hill, and there is no one higher in that area.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Morales made a motion to grant the height variance of 5 feet, seconded by Mr.
Tuman, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0, all in favor.
d) Morales, Alex (on behalf of property owner Dorothy Perrone)—15 Elmore
Avenue—Located in the RA-5 OneFamily Residential District and designated on
the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 10 Lot
14. Request for a side and rear yard variance from Village Code Section 23040E(1) for an existing ground-level stone patio located in the rear yard and less
than 4 feet from the property line.
Mr. Morales recused himself from the Zoning Board of Appeals in order to present the
application. and not knowing about the requirement for the patio, they had built a patio at the
rear of the property which goes from property line to property line.
Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on this application, the
public hearing was closed.

5

The Zoning Board of Appeals reviewed and discussed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
Mr. Morales stated he had spoken with the neighbors on both sides and both had been
in support of the patio construction and like the patio. The patio cannot be seen from
Elmore Avenue. The rear of their property faces unusable municipal land/ravine
belonging to the Town of Cortlandt.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.
He explained that there had been severe erosion in the back of their house, and initially
they had tried to stabilize the ground by planting grass and sod. Unfortunately, this did
not work.
3. The requested variances are substantial.
The patio has been constructed from property line to property line and therefore the
variance request is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
Mr. Morales stated that he has spoken with the neighbor who had expressed concerns
about the drain pipe that is discharging water and Mr. Morales told him he will fix that
issue immediately. As noted in factor 1, the patio cannot be seen from Elmore Avenue,
and the rear of their property faces unusable land belonging to the Town of Cortlandt.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Chairman Wagner made a motion to grant the 4 ft. variance for the side and rear
yard patio, seconded by Mr. Olcott, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Morales
recused).
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of the Zoning Board of
Appeals meeting of June 9, 2021, seconded by Mr. Morales, and the motion carried by a vote of
3-0 (two abstentions).
Mr. Olcott made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of the Zoning Board of Appeals
meeting of July 14, 2021, seconded by Chairman Wagner, and the motion carried by a vote of
4-0 (one abstention).

6

4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:27 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board

7

