FINAL MINUTES
Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, October 4, 2021, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Whitehead
Village Treasurer Tucker

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers.
The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$57,913.87
$4,618.12
$3,107.87
$37,808.06
$20,158.42

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Motion to open the Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 12 of
2021 to amend Chapter 227 of the Village Code entitled
“Wetlands”, to amend the date range for public hearings was made by
Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that the current law provides for a thirty
(30) day window from the date an application has been received, this new
law would allow a hearing to be scheduled fourteen (14) days after an
application has been received.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 2

Earl DePass, 10 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he feels
that the Village did not do their due diligence with respect to the
construction project in his neighborhood that has negatively affected him
and his neighbors, there are a lot of construction projects taking place in
the Village and the Village Engineer is inundated with work and he does
not support this change.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Village Engineer requested this
because they have the ability to schedule hearings sooner than thirty (30)
days; this only pertains to when the Engineer’s office receives the
application to when the hearing can be held and emphasized that the due
diligence in reviewing a project does not change.
Trustee Gallelli stated that it is actually good to have the public hearing
sooner because the community will have the opportunity to give their
input into a project that could influence the decision making as they go
through the application process.
Trustee Simon stated that this does not affect the decision making
process when the public hearing kicks off it could take weeks if not longer
for the proper examination of an application.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the public hearing was made by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #167 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 227 of the Village Code,
Wetlands, to amend the date range for public hearing, and

2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 3

WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2021 has been drafted to reflect such
language, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2021 was opened
and closed on October 4, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2021 to amend Chapter 227 of the Village
Code, Wetlands, to amend the date range for public hearings, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 12 of 2021.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that this is about the Planning Board’s process and while he
understands Mr. DePass’ concerns about what happened a couple of summers ago,
the property owners involved were held accountable and forced to reapply. Mayor
Pugh stated that this will only happen if the Planning Board thinks they can
accommodate that schedule and hold a Public Hearing within that timeframe.

Motion to open the Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 13 of
2021 to amend Chapter 127 of the Village Code entitled
“Fireworks”, by codifying state permitting requirements for fireworks
display was made by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Louis Montana, 5 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson stated that our area
has been blessed with a substantial amount of rainfall, but that could
change from year to year and asked if there is any discretion when
permits are issued especially when it is close to residential neighborhoods
and woods. Mr. Montana stated that the recent fireworks display felt like
bombs were going off, it was extremely frightening and would like the
Board to have the ability to ban them in residential neighborhoods.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that if there was a draught emergency
it would always be at the discretion of the Village Manager to say it is
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 4

unsafe to issue the permit but what is happening here is an amendment
to the law to provide for better notice to the community.
Village Manager Healy explained that the original Fireworks Law was
adopted over forty years ago in accordance with New York State Law; this
law now provides guidance for future displays as well as the requirement
to include consultation with the Fire Department.
Trustee Simon stated that the reason we are also endowing the Police
Chief with the authority to regulate this is so that he can make a
determination whether the group that is proposing to hold the fireworks
display is responsible and whether the location is safe.
Trustee Murtaugh asked if the Village can completely outlaw fireworks?
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that since under New York State Law
fireworks displays are permitted, she would have to review the law in
more detail.
Earl DePass, 10 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson suggested that when
the Board sends out an email blast that they include the substance of the
Law so that residents can see what the specific amendments are.
Trustee Gallelli stated that when agendas are emailed out to the
community, they include backup material that includes the resolution and
the proposed amended law.
Regina Montana, 5 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson stated that she is
a huge fireworks fan, but on that evening she was having second
thoughts because it was very frightening and suggested that in the future,
they rent a barge and shoot them off along the River.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the public hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #168-2021
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 5

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 127 of the code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, Fireworks, by codifying state permitting requirements for
fireworks displays, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2021 has been drafted to reflect such
language, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2021 was opened
and closed on October 4, 2021,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2021 to amend Chapter 127 of the code of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Fireworks, by codifying state permitting
requirements for fireworks displays, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No.
11 of 2021.
DISCUSISON
Trustee Gallelli stated that the the law also includes a minimum Bond of one million
dollars.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that this was to celebrate Hudson National Golf Club’s 25 th
Anniversary and it may not happen for another 25 years, but supports Ms.
Montana’s suggestion that fireworks be done on the river.
Mayor Pugh stated that he understands the problems that fireworks have on pets
and those that may be suffering from some kind of post-traumatic stress and is
open to considering tighter regulations in the future, but he is not prepared to go
for an outright ban at this time, this Local Law is to address comments and
reactions in response to the most recent fireworks display which was the lack of
notice and hopefully this will ease some of those issues in the future.
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 6

4. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
5. CORRESPONDENCE
a.

Update on Fire Department Membership from Fire Council Secretary
John Munson
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202109/1e3ed95bcc73dcde5af468d200fa6b158bffe998.pdf

b.

Memorandum from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated September 20,
2021, regarding the Village's” 60/40 Sidewalk Replacement Program”
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2021-10/
c9c63a2b547028518ebcde2981f3ce6085aa9a07.pdf
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board approved the request from the Village Manager to enact a
Moratorium on applications to the “60/40 Sidewalk Replacement
Program” through May 31, 2022.
Trustee Simon asked if the “Federal Infrastructure Bill” passes and
there is an allocation of funding that would apply to programs like this
could the Village resume this program?
Village Manager Healy stated that the issue is man-power because the
work is done by our Department of Public Works and staffing levels
only allow for so many of these projects to be done each year. Village
Manager Healy said that if we received a grant that would allow us to
bring in a contractor or someone to help us with the program, then the
answer is yes.
Trustee Simon asked how this affects someone requesting a new
sidewalk.
Trustee Healy stated that new sidewalks do not qualify, but if someone
had a sidewalk, and they can document that it was removed before
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 7

they purchased the property, they would be able to apply under this
program.
Trustee Murtaugh asked if it would be the possible for a homeowner
who is currently on the list to hire a contractor and then we rebate
back to the homeowner what the Village’s portion would be.
Village Attorney Whitehead responded by saying that as the law is
currently written this would not be possible, the law also states that
once the funds are not available the program ends and doing it in
house is much less expensive than hiring a private contractor.
Trustee Gallelli clarified that the forty-two applications currently on the
list will be completed.
Mayor Pugh stated that thanks to the ability and talent of our
Department of Public Works staff we are able to have offered this
program. Mayor Pugh added that the Board understands the concerns
that the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee has with putting this program
on hold, but we will be discussing this further in a future work session.
c. Memo from Police Chief John Nikitopoulos dated September 30, 2021,
requesting disbanding the “Croton Auxiliary Police unit”.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2021-09/
c11419288a40f8a596a1e7bf2c9858da803b5f45.pdf
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board approved the request from the Police Chief to disband the
“Croton Auxiliary Police Unit”
Trustee Simon encouraged the Chief to let people know what other
volunteer opportunities there may be within the Police Department.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none
7. RESOLUTIONS
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 8

Resolution #169 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on June 12, 2020, Governor Andrew Cuomo signed Executive Order 203,
requiring local municipalities with police departments to develop a reform plan
based on community input; and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees adopted the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Police Reform Task Force Plan on March 1, 2021, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police Reform Task Force Plan called for
implementation of a revised civilian complaint process to investigate all complaints
of alleged misconduct within the Police Department, and
WHEREAS Chief John Nikitopoulos and the Croton Police Advisory Committee have
drafted the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police Department Civilian Complaint Form
for such purposes,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police Department Civilian Complaint Form
as presented.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that when we adopted the “Croton on Hudson Police Reform
Plan” in March this was one of the fifteen priorities, and because it was so
important, the Board put a date to when it should be completed, and she is pleased
to say it was a very fair and open process.
Trustee Simon asked if people are able to get the complaint packet online, or does
someone have to go to the Police Department in person?
Village Manager Healy stated that the form will be available online and can be
submitted online as well, it is also available in Spanish.
Resolution #170 of 2021
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 9

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the Memorandum of Agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
and the Croton Police Association, covering the vaccination and testing of unit
members for COVID-19, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the agreement on behalf of the Village Board of Trustees.
DISCUSISON
The Board thanked Village Manager Healy for all his efforts in putting this together.
Resolution #171 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ and seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the Memorandum of Agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
and Local 456, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, covering the vaccination ad
testing of unit members for COVID-1, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the agreement on behalf of the Village Board of Trustees.
Resolution #172 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on March 7, 2020, the Governor of the State of New York issued an
Executive order declaring a state of emergency for the entire State related to cases
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 10

and community contact transmission of the Novel Coronavirus (“Covid-19”)
occurring throughout New York State, and
WHEREAS the State of New York, the residents of Westchester County, and the
Croton community continue to be impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, and
WHEREAS the Center for Disease Control (“CDC”) recently issued guidance that
strongly recommends the continued use of multi-layered safety protocols to enable
individuals to be as safe as possible while at work, a significant component of which
should be a requirement that all Village employees either be vaccinated or be
tested for Covid-19 on a regular basis, and
WHEREA in response to the rapid spread of the Covid-19 Delta variant, on July 28,
2021, the Governor announced that effective Labor Day, all employees of the State
of New York must be vaccinated or be tested on a regular basis, and
WHEREAS the Governor has strongly encouraged all employers, and local
government and school districts in particular, to require that all public employees
either be vaccinated or be tested on a regular basis; and
WHEREAS the Village desires to contract with a company to perform such regular
testing for all unvaccinated employees,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the Laboratory Services Agreement between the Village of Croton-onHudson and Sovereign Laboratory Services, LLC, of Fair Lawn, New Jersey, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the agreement on behalf of the Village Board of Trustees.
Resolution #173 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village has received a special use permit application from The
Dessertist to operate a wholesale bakery located at 2-4 Croton Point Avenue, and
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 11

WHEREAS the property is located in the Light Industrial zoning district, and
WHEREAS the proposed use requires a special use permit per Section 230-18C(1)
and (7) of the Village Zoning Code,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby determines that
the proposed action is a Type II Action under SEQRA, not requiring any further
action,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby refers the special
use permit application to the Village’s Planning Board in accordance with Village
law,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby directs the Village
Clerk to notify the Westchester County Planning Department of this application in
accordance with law.
DISCUSSION:
Samantha Benjamin stated that she has been extremely fortunate that the
wholesale business has grown tremendously, and they have decided to discontinue
retail sales and go full time wholesale and they are excited about this opportunity.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Reily, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the two
largest landowners in the Village; the State run Railroad and the County
Park do not contribute any tax revenue to the Village; yet the Railroad
continues to pollute the Village visually and the County has destroyed
wetlands. Mr. Reily stated that a one party system is unhealthy, and he
is disappointed that elected positions are uncontested. Mr. Reily stated
that a portion of property the School Board has asked people to stay off
of is actually an established “right of way” and has been for fifty plus
years. Mr. Reily stated that he has seen businesses, landowners, and
churches violating our new sign ordinance.
William, a resident of Harrison Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that for
the past sixteen years he has been partially parking on the sidewalk
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 12

because Harrison street is very narrow, he does not see anyone walking
on Harrison street at night and does not see this as a problem.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on September 20, 2021, was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10.

REPORTS

Trustee Murtaugh stated that the Fall Festival was a huge success and
complimented Tom Morzello for a job well done in putting this together;
some social media comments were made about dogs, and reminded
everyone that Vassallo Park does not allow dogs at any time and that this
was not an exclusionary move to not allow dogs; he complimented Toni and
Tracy of Tapsmith for a nice event at Senasqua Park; toured the Municipal
Building to see the renovations and thanked our DPW staff for a job well
done and for helping to save the Village money and welcomed our new
Director of Senior Recreation. Trustee Murtaugh stated that the South
Riverside paving project has resulted in a smooth macadam, but we could
have done a better job notifying our residents, while the work was done at
night in consideration for our local businesses we should have communicated
better to the residents because the project was very noisy. Trustee Murtaugh
advised that the no right turn on red at the traffic light at Croton Point
Avenue from Route 9 north may be relaxed.
Trustee Simon stated that the Fall Festival was amazing and thanked
everyone for all the contributions that were made to make this such a
successful event, the Rotary car show and parade was also very successful,
they did a tremendous job putting it together and thanked the entire Village
staff for their assistance, on September 24th Croton High School students
organized a “climate strike” event, it was very well organized and very
specific in terms of what every segment of our society can do with respect to
climate change, on September 22nd he attended the “Water Control
Commission” meeting and upon referral from the Planning Board they
approved a “Wetland” permit for Sol Systems for the solar project at the
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 13

train station, he attended the “Bicycle Pedestrian Committee” meeting that
same day wherein they discussed some upcoming projects and on September
28th attended the Fire Council meeting where they discussed the transition of
EMS staff to the Harmon Firehouse.
Trustee Gallelli dittoed everyone’s comments on the Fall Festival, reminded
everyone to sign up and register for the upcoming window painting contest,
advised that the Goblin Walk is October 30 th at 12:00, and on October 23rd
the Police Department will be doing pumpkin painting at Vassallo Park, the
“Harry Chapin Run” is Saturday, October 17 th and encouraged those that are
interested to sign up. Trustee Gallelli advised that the Boy Scouts will be
holding a Fireworks Display on October 16th at Croton Point Park and while
this event is being held on County property, the Village will be sending out
notification to the entire community, she attended the Planning Board
meeting where they approved the amended Site Plan for the solar array
project at the train station, the amended Site Plan for the storage area at
“Hudson National Golf Club” as well as approving the 25 South Riverside
apartment project, she and Trustee Horowitz attended the quarterly meeting
with the School District and is pleased to announce that our Senior Club is
back meeting in the Municipal Building. Trustee Gallelli alerted everyone that
starting October 12th the gas line replacement project will start on Grand
Street between the Upper Village and South Riverside and to expect traffic
delays.
Trustee Horowitz stated that the Senasqua Park event was wonderful and
congratulated Toni and Tracy of Tapsmith on a successful event, the Fall
Festival was great and enjoyed seeing how the food trucks and booths were
laid out, the annual Tag Sale was also an enormous success, she attended a
recent “Historical Society” presentation that talked about Croton at the turn
of the Century and suggested having some semi-permanent exhibits
throughout the Village.
Mayor Pugh congratulated Manager Healy and the staff on a successful Fall
Festival; thanked the Rotary for putting on a successful Car Show and for all
the work they do for our community. Mayor Pugh expressed his appreciation
to his colleagues on the Board as they fulfill their liaisons duties on the
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 14

various Boards and Committees as well as all the contributions they make as
Trustees on the Village Board.
Village Manager Healy thanked everyone who participated in the Fall Festival,
it was a wonderful afternoon and looks forward to doing it again; he
especially thanked his assistant Tom Morzello for organizing the event as well
as all the other Village employees who played a huge part in helping to make
the Fall Festival a tremendous success.
Village Manager Healy advised that parking on sidewalks is illegal, and the
Police Department has started to issue warnings to residents on Harrison
Street; parking on the sidewalk makes it difficult for pedestrians and
especially difficult for those who are disabled and also damages sidewalks
over time. Village Manager Healy advised that after lengthy discussions with
the Police Chief and our DPW Superintendent we have decided that the best
course of action is to limit the parking to one side of the street, they have
surveyed the number of cars on the street and have determined that twentyfive parking spaces will accommodate those that need parking, this will help
our Department of Public Works, our Fire Department and EMS vehicles who
traverse that street.
Village Manager Healy advised that we have been doing a big information
campaign about the importance of having dogs licensed and thanked
residents who have come in to license their dogs.
Village Manager Healy stated that it was great meeting with our Senior Club
members and welcomed them back to the Municipal Building.
Village Manager Healy advised that as of October 1 st we have sold 45% of
what we budgeted for parking permits and 48% for daily parking permits and
compared to last year’s Budget the parking lot revenue is looking good but
compared to the normal budget we are still a way off and we hope that it will
increase as we prepare for the upcoming budget cycle.
Village Manager Healy advised that the fireworks display scheduled for
October 16th at Croton Point Park at 8:00pm is a private event for the Boy
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 4, 2021
Page 15

Scouts and is on County property and while we do not have any permitting
authority, we will be sending out a notice to the community.
Village Manager Healy congratulated the Croton Fire Department, EMS and
Police for being inducted this past Friday into the “Hendrick Hudson Athletic
Hall of Fame”
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting and to enter into an Executive Session to discuss a personnel
matter was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:50pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

15

