MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Oct. 24, 2021 – via zoom

Members Attending:                                      Absent:
Lindsay Audin                                           Len Simon (MCing other event)
Joel Gingold                                            BernieYozwiak (graduation)
Niall Kelleher                                          Dan Columbini (vacation)
Jon Katz                                                Brian Pugh

[Bracketed] text mean subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a
commitment.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guest(s): none
Announcements: Thank you to the Village for providing Zoom service.

Reminder: All members must take two online PERMA classes: RISE Up Against
Workplace Bullying (HV 16) and Harassment Prevention for NY Employees (HV 20).
Please do so. If you need help, ask Lindsay.

Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:

- Public relations effort

 The committee reviewed Adlin Hadad’s draft proposal (attached as an appendix) for
 expanding public awareness of our efforts via social media and other venues. The
 Village does not allow committees to have their own Facebook (FB) or web pages.

 Regarding use of FB, issues of time commitment, negative comments about our
 postings, file size, etc. were reviewed. [Adlin agreed to assess how best to use the
 Village FB site for postings about us]. Niall showed us a way to search just the Village’s
 page for postings based on keywords. [Another way – using the “three dots” menu –
 was subsequently found and tested by Adlin. It produces a unique URL that would be
 very helpful to direct people, e.g., via news releases, to all of our FB postings.]

 Suggestions on how to get the most out of the process were offered. They included:

 - emphasize taxpayer savings and how grants and programs cover most project costs

 - often use the Gazette’s Letters to the Editor (LtE); include pictures that the editor may
 choose to include with our LtEs

 - once we have a bunch of items posted, ask Mayor Pugh to mention our FB postings
 whenever possible at his meetings

 - if feasible, post our stuff in a green-colored or different font [Adlin responded that
 neither a different font color, or a different font, is an option in Facebook.]


                                              1
 - create a FAQ at our web page and post a link to it on FB to respond to oft-asked
 questions (e.g., “why isn’t there a hydroelectric power plant at the Croton Dam?”)

 One way to get good exposure would be a zoom during which the four Mid-Hudson
 munis (Hastings, Croton, Bedford, and Dobbs Ferry) that won $70K grants would
 review their projects. They would trade experiences and encourage other communities
 with their own projects. All 88 Mid-Hudson CEC participants would be invited to attend.
 The event would be promoted via local and social media. On 10/10, the idea was well
 received by our CEC coordinator (Eleanor Peck) and the HVRC (NYSERDA’s
 contractor for our region). They agreed to develop it for presentation in early ’22.

- NYSERDA CEC grants

 All applications for CEC grants were submitted by Oct. 12. Funds for one of the $5K
 grants (for a HPWH in the Muni Bldg) was already received. We expect NYSERDA
 responses on the others by Thanksgiving. We cannot proceed before then.

- Washington Engine firehouse projects

 Once NYSERDA sends written approval for our two projects (37.3 kWp solar rooftop
 and a control system for its existing ASHPs), Lindsay will work with Village staff on the
 RFP needed for the solar job. No RFP is needed for the ASHP controls work.
 We reviewed a draft proposal from Ecogy for a small Battery Energy Storage System
 (BESS) at the firehouse to work with its proposed rooftop solar system. Unlike most
 solar+storage systems, it would be used solely to reduce the building’s peak electric
 demand, rather than releasing stored power to the grid when its load and hourly pricing
 peak. Ecogy worked out a way to install it at no cost, and with a guaranteed savings, to
 the Village.

 A variety of comments were noted: how the 18% demand charge discount was figured,
 the 25-year term of the proposed deal, interactions with NYPA tariff and billing, and
 how the idea may a tough “sell” to non-technical people (e.g., the VB). All members
 were asked to offer their thoughts after digesting Ecogy’s draft proposal sent to them
 10/22. All were asked not to distribute it further at this time.

- Other grant-supported projects
 Dan agreed to view the existing Muni Bldg electric DHW system with Lindsay and the
 DPW in the near future to develop a SOW to price replacement with a HPWH.

 In case another grant comes our way, Bruni & Campisi is scheduled to visit the
 firehouse 11/1 to price converting its boiler from oil to natural gas. Fuel switching is
 acceptable to NYSERDA because gas (for the same Btus) emits ~30% less carbon.

- Other Solar Projects



                                             2
  Canopy projects at parking lots for the DPW and Muni Bldgs are still on hold, pending
  various technical and financial issues. The demise of the Community Credit in Con Ed
  territory (essential for financial viability) on 10/31 will likely halt new community solar in
  our area unless it’s restored or replaced with a comparable incentive. At Mayor Pugh’s
  request, comments were submitted to Gov. Hochul requesting that the NY PSC restore
  the Community Credit for at least several more years.
  On the SolSystems’ train station canopies, Sol and Village staff continue to work on an
  acceptable water management system. Initial cost estimates had exceeded $1 million.
  That could reduce our expected annual revenue. Based on communications with
  personnel that handle snow and water flow from canopies at parking lots in our region,
  there may be a middle ground to allow some overflow during heavy rains. Once a
  revised design is in hand, the VB will be asked for its approval. Before installation
  begins, commuter expectations (versus Village revenue) will need to be managed.
  On the Croton Landing Park canopy, Joel reported on a meeting he and Lindsay had
  with Sandy Galef (our State Assembly rep) on ways to amend A.6838 (bill to allow
  canopies over parking lots in parks). Doing so is needed to make it acceptable to the
  Assembly member presently blocking it. To gin up more support for the bill, Joel raised
  it at the CCoHOPE group’s Oct. 13 meeting where State Sen. Peter Harckham was a
  guest. He also circulated a request for CCoHOPE members to communicate with that
  Assembly member on the matter. He will be raising the issue at an upcoming “Town
  Hall” zoom to be run by Sandy Galef. Lindsay raised it at zooms run by Sustainable
  Putnam (Oct. 10), Westchester’s League of Conservation Voters (Oct. 12), and the
  Village of Mamaroneck’s sustainability committee (on Oct. 19). The latter passed a
  support resolution, and its mayor agreed to speak with their Assembly rep (Steve Otis).

  We discussed demise of the Shrub Oak project (in Yorktown) that was to provide the
  10% discount to our Community Solar 2.0 subscribers. They will be moved to another
  nearly completed project at the Arcadia Farm in Yorktown. A reduced discount (~8%)
  will occur. The discount will begin when consolidated billing starts later this year.

- EV/EVSE

  On the electric school buses, the following appeared in Croton100’s October 10
  newsletter:
     “Croton100's nearly 2 years of intensive efforts are culminating in helping to bring
     $220,000 of funding for electric school buses to Croton. The School District has made
     significant progress in procuring two electric buses, having entered the final phase of
     receiving NYSERDA funding for one 66-passenger and one 27-passenger bus.”


- Reports
 Lindsay reviewed a way to revive our 2019 pilot 6-month food scrap recycling program.
 Ossining (Town) runs a nearly identical program. He asked Town official Victoria
 Cafarelli (program coordinator) if it could take over our DEC grant and project.


                                                 3
 Instead of dealing with DEC or Village personnel issues, she suggested we use
 Ossining’s part-time employee and program manager (Marcus DaSilva), and the
 County’s food scrap pickup program. She said the County now uses SMM’s composting
 facility in Peekskill instead of the one in Ulster County. Under the County’s contract,
 Suburban Carting takes the scraps to SMM at a much lower cost and vehicle emissions.
 As part of its 50% grant match, Croton would pay the County instead of using a
 separate contract. [DaSilva later indicated interest in the idea. He described his present
 work for Ossining. Discussions are underway on how to do the same for Croton.]

- Communications

See items discussed above.

- Recruitment/Outreach

Dan Oppenheim has begun assessing how he will perform our community GHG
inventory. A 10/27 zoom with Lindsay will nail down Dan’s SOW and schedule.

- New business / other issues

Regarding another tree inventory (our first failed due to erroneous property data from
Cortlandt), Lindsay asked Gunnel Rydstrom, of Green Ossining, how it inventoried its
trees in 2019. A close review of that inventory (performed by Davey Tree Service) found
that its methodology lacked data needed to assess the trees’ carbon impact. It was thus
of no use for assessing a forested area as a carbon sink as part of our GHG inventory.


Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, November 21 at 10:30 AM by zoom.




                                             4
 Public Relations Proposal for The

Croton Sustainability Committee
10.16.2021
─




Prepared by:
 Adlin Hadad
                                     5
Purpose
 The purpose of this proposal is to outline a public relations strategy for the Croton
 Sustainability Committee (SC). The overarching objective is to highlight the work the SC is
 undergoing in its mission to successfully reduce carbon emissions in Village’s municipal
 operations.



Goals
    1. Increase awareness around SC carbon reduction eﬀorts to Croton residents, like
       minded environmental grounds, and local policymakers and municipalities.
    2. Drive engagement around the SC programs that aim to reduce our community’s
       carbon emissions.
    3. Secure points for the CSC and CEC grants to increase Croton’s rating.



 Strategy

 To achieve these goals, I will require the SC to partner with me in developing and
 implementing the communication strategy to deliver timely messaging, information, and
 call-to-actions to Croton residents, local policymakers, and like-minded environmental
 groups and municipalities.
 All communication eﬀorts will align to the SC carbon reduction mission. These
 communications can feature information around past and current campaigns, factoids,
 interviews with SC program leads, etc. to increase awareness and drive community
 engagement. We can discuss priorities and create a communications plan and schedule to
 ensure timely information is distributed to gain maximum exposure and traction.
 I can establish a simple process to prioritize and craft messaging, produce creative (if
 applicable), and facilitate reviews and approvals before distribution. I can assist with the
 dissemination of these communications, to the appropriate media channel, and if deemed
 appropriate by SC leadership I can assist with any necessary engagement follow-ups (i.e.,
 responding to Facebook posts from followers).




                                                1
ProposedPR CommunicationChannels

   1. Sustainability Committee *Facebook page
      The dedicated SC page will inform our community, and followers, of important
      information around the work the SC is doing. This can include posts around near
      term and long term goals, past and active campaigns, partnerships, community
      activities/events, and general awareness information.
          a. The goal of the page is to increase community awareness and engagement.
          b. Cadence: 3-4 post per month; ~1 post per week
               i.   This can increase depending upon priority needs
          c. By establishing this dedicated page, the SC will fulﬁl the CSC PE9 Action:
              Social Media requirement and obtain 3 points.
     *NOTE: We may need permission from The Village of Croton to establish this page according to
      the village’s social media policy.

   2. Print and digital media press
      Print and digital media communication channels will increase awareness of the work
      the SC is undergoing within Croton and other Westchester communities.
          a. Establish relationships with local publishers, such as River Journal News,
             Lohud.com, The Gazette, News12, etc., that we would like to approach.
          b. Create press releases, articles, and facilitate SC interviews with these
              publishers.

   3. Events press
      Event press will increase community engagement and participation in the SC eﬀorts
      to reduce carbon emissions. Event press can include Facebook, print, and digital
      communications around:
          a. Events the SC is participating within the village (i.e. Earth Day, Fallfest,
             Summerfest, etc.).
          b. Partnerships with like-minded environmental groups such as: Audubon
             Society, Croton100, etc.
          c. Participation in forums with municipalities who have won CSC and CEC grants
             (i.e., share and obtain knowledge on how grants/points were obtained and
             how to best leverage grant funding).




                                                2
Next Steps


  I.   Review proposal
       As a committee, please review the proposal and reach out if you have any questions. I am
       more than happy to answer them. I can be reached at
       linum04@gmail.com or via cell phone at 305-494-0116


       Thank you, Adlin Hadad




                                                 3
