Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, October 18, 2021, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Whitehead

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon

The following official was not present:
Village Treasurer Tucker
1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a
5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$83,694.36
$4,661.65
$3,462.03
$43,886.24
$977.50

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Motion to open the Public Hearing to amend Chapter 160 of the Village
Code, entitled “Noise”, to establish regulations on gas-powered leaf
blowers was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Keith Quinlan, 1 Observatory Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
Village should not be targeting residents who do their own lawn and asked
if the Village has given any thought to a buy-back program since
homeowners will not be able to use the equipment they purchased.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 2

Mayor Pugh responded by saying no; this is not a blanket prohibition but
a seasonal restriction from June 1 st to August 31st and January 1st to
March 31st.
Ray Gomez, 3 North Ledge Loop, Croton on Hudson, stated that his
property is under a full canopy and all summer he has debris falling, his
gas powered blower can do the job much faster than his battery powered
blower and he does not know why this has become such an issue and
does not support this law.
Jennifer Pauley, 146 Old Post Road North, stated that she wishes that we
were banning gas powered blowers altogether, they are incredibly bad for
the environment, the amount of carbon monoxide that is omitted from a
typical back-pack blower for just one hour is equal to the carbon
monoxide coming from the tailpipe of a car operating for over eight hours,
while she understands that homeowners have the right to keep their
lawns the way they want, they do not have the right to ruin the days of all
of their neighbors, just like she would not have the right to let her dog
bark incessantly or to blast her radio for hours at a time.
Terry McGarty, 8 Munson Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that the noise
has become very unnerving and very disruptive especially to those who
are now working from home; this never existed twenty/thirty years ago
and he does not understand why it is necessary now; he has looked at the
effect not only on the environment but on the health of those using them
and he is hoping that we as a community can just learn to mulch our
leaves and grass.
Janet Monahan, 116 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson and Chair of the
“Conservation Advisory Council” stated that the Council started this in the
summer of 2020 when people came to us saying that they enjoyed the
ban during Covid, the Council did research and presented it to the Board
that shows the danger to the environment and to our health and that this
law matches what other communities have adopted in Westchester.
Andy Simmons, 146 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated that
he believes this is a very fair compromise, there are a lot of people who
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 3

support this not just because of the noise but because of the fumes gas
powered blowers generate.
Edward Rosensteel, 6 Joseph Wallace Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated
that his property has a large canopy, and it is not feasible to use a rake or
an electric powered leaf blower. Mr. Rosensteel stated that he
understands that gas powered blowers are bad with emissions, but the
market has yet to supply an electric leaf blower that is as powerful,
portable and affordable. Mr. Rosensteel stated that a ban on these
devices would burden people like himself who have limited means and
need to maintain their own property, and suggested that this law only
pertain to properties that are close to one another and not to those on the
outskirts of town where properties are larger.
Mayor Pugh stated that Mr. Rosensteel’s property is not in the Village of
Croton and therefore his property would not be affected by this law
Eva Bogenschulz, 9 Darby Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
lives on a large lot with a large canopy and does not use a leaf blower,
she has found that if you pass your lawnmower over leaves several times
they compress and supports this regulation.
Ray Gomez, 3 North Ledge Loop, Croton on Hudson, asked how the
exemption came about, and how the zones were chosen and asked if
there will be an appeal process.
Mayor Pugh stated that this was based on the size of the lot.
Written comments
Abigail Nicholls, 3 North Ledge Loop, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
opposed to the restriction and if it does pass, she is asking that RA-25 be
added to the list of exempted zones.
Joseph Bencivenga, 18 Devon Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
is opposed to the ban and asked how this is going to be enforced.

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 4

There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the public hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.

Motion to open the Public Hearing to consider the special permit
applications for Hudson National Golf Club for the Club use on the
reduced property and the proposed tier three solar energy use was made
by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Bob Davis, Attorney for Hudson National Golf Club explained that Hudson
National Golf Club is seeking approval to sub-divide a parcel of twelve and
half acres from its larger property and a “Special Amended Permit” to
continue to operate on that slightly reduced acreage as well as a “Special
Permit” and “Site Plan” approval for a Tier Three Solar Energy proposal.
To hear the entire presentation, you may log onto the following link:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/50 (go to 00.26.53)
Michael Doud, Director of Development for Matrix Development, gave a
brief presentation covering the environmental and community benefits, as
well as timing and scheduling. To view his presentation, you may log onto
the following link.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202110/8a767d32ac3751f49e6accc9469de715125b4bc0.pdf
John Ealer, 5 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
“Water Control Commission” has expressed concerns as to whether or not
the project is consistent with the policies of the “Consistency Review” with
respect to the number of trees that have been proposed to be removed.
Mr. Ealer indicated that while the Planning Board did approve it, they also
stated that the Village Board has a right to deny essential components of
this application. Mr. Ealer said that he is pro-solar but would like Croton
to do it right and while he appreciates that Hudson National Golf Club has
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 5

created the best power plant they can have on their land, the land is in a
“Non-Disturbance Zone” with a unique eco-system. Mr. Ealer stated that
this project should only be approved if it can prove that it will create a net
ecological gain to the community and should be designated a “Type 1
Action” that would require a full “EAF” (Environmental Assessment Form)
and a “Draft Environmental Impact Statement”.
Steve Varvaro and Beddy LoBalbo Varvaro, 1263 Albany Post Road,
Croton on Hudson, submitted a letter to the Board at the Public Hearing
stating that they are appalled by the prospect of the removal of sixhundred trees on a steep-slope and the disregard of ecological issues that
could occur, a satisfactory “Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan”
consistent with Chapter 196, Article 1 of the Village Code has not been
done and they have not accounted for the rain-water that would run off
the solar panels, it is bad enough to take down six hundred trees and lose
the environmental benefits they provide, but to do so in areas that are
steeply sloped is irresponsible. (A copy of Mr. Varvaro and Beddy LoBalbo
Varvaro’s letter can obtained by contacting the Village Clerk’s office).
Mitchell Bring, 12 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that in
1999 this location was designated a “Non-Disturbance Zone” and it should
be allowed to progress unaffected by golf course activities. Mr. Bring
stated that solar vs tree removal is being fought all around us and wise
decisions must be based on the particular project and in this case the
topography of the land, the type and condition of the trees and the visual
impact all argue against deforestation. Mr. Bring states that according to
the “Tree Chart” provided by the applicant, we know that sixty of these
slope stabilizing trees are now over one hundred years old and two are
approaching two hundred years old, and removing these trees will cause
significant runoff and erosion. Mr. Bring added that animal habitats will be
disrupted by the seven foot fences surrounding the panels, the air above
the panels will heat up and become heat islands causing the air to be
warmer than the air of the adjacent intact forest as well as the release of
carbon dioxide into the environment as a result of the removal of so many
trees.
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 6

Georgianna Bring, 12 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson, stated
that she is concerned with the number of trees that will be taken down
and that the roadway will turn into some kind of logging artery and
suggested that we look into other properties that would be better suited.
Ms. Bring stated that there are action items that have not been resolved
and asked that the public hearing stay open until all those open items are
resolved.
Alan Milton, (no address given) stated that a “Habitat Evaluation Study”
was done as part of the “SEQRA” process and the characterization that it
is a rare and critical habitat is unfounded, this particular area has been
logged at least three times in the last eighty years, it was not agricultural
land but rather grazing land, and while there are many large trees, most
of the trees are not in good shape with sparce growth and does not
believe that there are better locations on the golf course.
Ray Gomez, 3 North Ledge Loop, Croton on Hudson, stated that the old
driving range would be a very suitable location for the solar project, it is
in the middle of the golf course, they would not have to cut down trees,
but they do not want to consider this location because members would
see it.
Responses to questions and concerns by representatives of the project:


The Solar array needs to be close to Con-Edison’s electrical
connection, this location is close to where the wires change over from
Con-Edison to Hudson National’s utility lines; trees will be removed
responsibly and will be disposed of responsibly, with some trees being
used for bio-fuel and lumber.



Because the grade of the land varies, the front edge of the panel
would be between two and three feet high, and the rear would be
anywhere from seven to eight feet high depending on the grade



Visual studies were prepared; to view the entire study you may log
onto the following:
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 7

https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sites/g/files/vyhlif441/f/
uploads/solar2_reduced.pdf


While most of the arrays are not in the steep slope area, digging deep
into the soil will not be required and is considered a low-impact
installation.



Hudson National Golf Club is improving the drainage on Prickly Pear Hill
Road as part of the maintenance approval, and the same procedures that
were used during the construction of the golf course regarding
management of trucks going up and down Prickly Pear Hill Road will be
adhered to, a traffic plan has been discussed with the Planning Board and
the Planning Board has also already imposed conditions for the suitable
improvement of Prickly Pear Hill Road after the construction has been
completed.



The “Stormwater Plan” indicates that if there was an extreme weather
event now, it will be no different from an extreme weather event after the
system is constructed because the vegetation that is being proposed for
the site is equivalent if not better to what is there now, and they will be
submitting a replanting plan to the Planning Board. To view the
“Stormwater Plan” you may log onto the following:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sites/g/files/vyhlif441/f/uploads/
matrix_and_hngc_community_solar_swppp_1.20.21.pdf
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that we talked about additional
information from the applicant including coordinating with Chazen and
referred to Chazen’s January 14 th memo; the Village will re-engage
with them to get their comments with respect to providing a replanting plan and mitigation for the tree removal. To view the January
14th memo, you may log onto the following:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sites/g/files/vyhlif441/f/
uploads/hngc_-_matrix_solar_outstanding_seqra_issues_20210115.pdf
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 8

Trustee Horowitz stated that we are spending a lot of energy on
whether or not we can do it, but the question should be, should we do
it, is there is a better way or location so that we keep that canopy of
trees so that we do not sacrifice one environment for another.
Written Comments:
Chris Doka, 44 Batten Road, Croton on Hudson, states that he supports
eco-friendly solar but does not believe it should come at the expense of
deforestation and asked that Hudson National Golf Club look at another
location.
Guy Parde, 53 Sunset Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked why with all the
cleared land that Hudson National Golf Club has, they need to clear six
hundred trees adjacent to steeply graded land and within earshot of
existing homes.
Joel Gingold,55 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, urged the Board to
approve the permit for the installation of the solar array with whatever
modifications they deem essential.
Susan Ealer, 5 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson stated that as a
registered Architect she has concerns regarding the location and
execution of the project. To view Ms. Ealer’s presentation you may log
onto the following:
file:///C:/Users/Judy%20Weintraub/Downloads/20211017%20Hudson
%20National%20Solar%20Field%20SE%20Comments.pdf
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the public hearing was made by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
4. QUESTIONS/COMMENTS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL - none
5. CORRESPONDENCE - none
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 9

7. RESOLUTIONS
Resolution #175 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York:
WHEREAS the Village has received a special use permit application from The
Dessertist to operate a wholesale bakery located at 2-4 Croton Point Avenue, and
WHEREAS the property is located in the Light Industrial zoning district and
WHEREAS the proposed use requires a special use permit per Section 230-18C (1)
and (7) of the Village Zoning Code, and
WHEREAS at its regularly scheduled meeting on October 12, 2021, the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson Planning Board reviewed the Special Use Permit application,
from The Dessertist and recommended that the Village Board grant the Special Use
Permit.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing for November 3rd, 2021, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna
Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider
granting a Special Use Permit to The Dessertist,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 of the
Public Officers Law to the contrary, the meeting may be conducted via virtual
technology in accordance with the Chapter 417 of the Laws of 2021, or it may be
conducted in person at the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building, located at 1
Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York. The format will be dictated by
public health and safety concerns associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.
Resolution #176 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI , seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 10

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has entered into an agreement with
Northwind Kennel of Bedford, New York, to provide shelter for stray dogs on an
annual basis, and
WHEREAS pursuant to Section 114 of the Agriculture & Markets Law of the State of
New York, each municipality that issues dog licenses shall establish and maintain a
shelter for dogs, or may contract with an agency to provide such service, and
WHEREAS the cost for such shelter services is $1,500. and
WHEREAS the term of the agreement is July 1, 2021, through July 1, 2026,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby affirms the
executed agreement with Northwind Kennel of Bedford, New York, to provide
shelter services to the Village for seized and stray dogs at a cost of $1,500 for the
period of July 1, 2021, through July 1, 2026,
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for such expense is available in the
following account: A3510.4000.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Gallelli advised that municipalities are required to have this provision if they
issue dog licenses.
Village Manager Healy stated that this agreement is significantly less than what we
had been paying the “SPCA.”
Resolution #177 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE
HOROWITZ, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on December 17, 2018, the Village awarded the bid for one 2018 Triple
Combination Pumper (Bid #06-2018) to Hendrickson Fire Rescue Equipment of
Islandia, New York, in the amount of $829,885, and

10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 11

WHEREAS a number of change orders were approved by the Village Board to bring
the final cost for the pumper to $774,518, and
WHEREAS the Village took delivery of the new Engine 118 in June 2021, and
WHEREAS the Fire Department requires the purchase of additional equipment, such
as extrication spreaders for motor vehicle accidents, for the new Engine 118, and
WHEREAS the total cost of this equipment was not included in the original bonding
for the pumper,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized
to transfer money from the General Fund to the Capital Fund and, amend the
General Fund and Capital Fund 2021-2022 budgets in the amount of $9,552
CAPITAL EXPENSES
Increase
H3410.2010.20361– Fire - Triple Combination Pumper - $9,552
GENERAL EXPENSES
Decrease
A3410.4100– Fire – Inspection - $5,000
A3410.4110– Fire – Public Education and Fire Prevention - $3,000
A3410.4711– Fire – Vehicle Upgrade - $1,552
Resolution #178 of 2021
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote
WHEREAS the building housing Croton EMS has been deemed uninhabitable by the
Village due to the presence of mold in the building, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has resolved to study the future location of
Croton EMS in detail over the coming weeks and months, and
WHEREAS Croton EMS is in need of temporary quarters while their future location is
decided upon, and
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 12

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees agreed at their meeting on September 20,
2021, that the ready room at the Harmon Firehouse would be renovated to
temporarily house Croton EMS and
WHEREAS the funding for such renovations was not included in the 2021-2022
General Fund budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2021-2022 budget in the amount of $15,000:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A3410.4600– Fire – Buildings and Grounds - $15,000
Decrease
A1990.4000– Contingency- $15,000
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - NONE
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on October 4, 2021, was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on October
4, 2021, was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10.

REPORTS

Trustee Murtaugh stated that he is grateful for the robust discussions this
evening and happy that we deferred the decisions.
Trustee Simon stated that the Harry Chapin Run was a successful event, the
Cannabis Control Board is about six months behind, and their next meeting
will be this Thursday, he attended the “Hudson Valley Gateway Chamber”
meeting on October 8th, County Executive Latimer was in attendance and
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 13

talked about the Census, he recently attended a “Westchester Municipal
Officials” meeting, “Drug Give Back” day will be held on October 23 rd. Trustee
Simon stated that in 1997 he had the honor to meet Colin Powell, he was a
true and through New Yorker and is honored to have been able to meet him.
Trustee Gallelli advised that it was wonderful walking in the “Fun Run” with
so many people from the Village, and reminded everyone of the window
painting contest, the Goblin Walk, and pumpkin painting at Vassallo Park, our
next Board meeting will be held on November 3 rd and reminded everyone to
vote on November 2nd.
Trustee Horowitz advised that a statewide program called the “Emergency
Rental Assistance Program” is available and anyone needing assistance with
the application process can reach out to the City of Peekskill’s “Section Eight”
Office, on October 27th at 7:00pm the Diversity and Inclusion Committee will
hold a discussion on “Christopher Columbus” and on October 28 th they will
host a communitywide conversation about Lorraine Hansberry, the Arts and
Humanities will be connecting with the Croton Business Council looking to
find business venues for musical events, and “Sustainable Westchester” will
be holding a zoom presentation called “Consumerism with a Heart” on
October 21st.
Mayor Pugh thanked the organizers and volunteers for a successful “Harry
Chapin Run.” Mayor Pugh announced that there are vacancies on the “Zoning
Board of Appeals” and the “Police Advisory Committee.”
Village Manager Healy advised that we have instituted no parking on one side
of Harrison Street, DPW is in the process of installing the signage and all
residents have been sent a notice letting them know that this will take effect
November 1st; the no-turn on red sign at the end of the north bound exit lane
onto Croton Point Avenue has been removed, this week two of our “Police
Officers have been sent to a “Community Policing Course”, and on October
30th the Dog Parade will be held at Croton Landing.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting and was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 18, 2021
Page 14

Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at
9:50pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

14

