WATER CONTROL COMMISSION
MINUTES OF THE MEETING ON WEDNESDAY,
March 17, 2021 AT 4:30 P.M.
Via Zoom Videoconference
PRESENT: Chairman Greenbaum
Mr. Leo Wiegman
Mr. Mark Goldfarb
Ms. Gail Sasso
ABSENT:
Dr. Merrily Besvinick
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E./Village Engineer
Trustee Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Greenbaum called the meeting of the Water Control Commission on
March 17, 2021 to order at 4:30 via Zoom Video Conference. The committee is
unable to meet in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. NEW BUSINESS
Historic Hudson Valley--525 South Riverside Avenue--Application for Wetlands Permit
for site improvements including construction of concrete sidewalks, maintenance of
historic brick walkway and stormwater management, landscape improvements, utility
improvements, and roof replacement, some of which will occur in the 120 ft. wetlands
watercourse buffer.
PRESENT: Jim Boggs, environmental scientist, Ray Darling, P.E. (Bergmann), Gregg
Ursprung (Bergmann), Peter Pockriss (HHV), Waddell Stillman (HHV), Rick Torres (HHV)
Mr. Stillman, of Historic Hudson Valley, explained that HHV has been working with the village
for six years, and he thanked the Village Engineer, the Village Board and Village leaders and
officials for their good guidance.
Mr. Peter Pockriss stated that this project is an opportunity to bring Van Cortlandt Manor into the
21st century as there have not been infrastructure improvements since 1960. The goals include
completing restorative work such as restoration of the landscape to colonial landscaping,
removal of big damaged trees, restoration of retaining walls, improving pathways to improve
access to the site and improving surfaces to lessen tripping hazards. There will be however no
trees removed in the wetlands buffer zone.
Mr. Ray Darling further elaborated and added that the project will include construction of
concrete pads for temporary tents, restoration of the driveway throughout the site, and
replacement of the emergency access gate. They have considered electric vehicle charging

stations although this is not part of the wetlands permit. Mr. Wiegman noted that he will forward
information about grant possibilities for electric charging stations.
Mr. Boggs stated that part of the project will include working with agencies such as the NYS
Department of Conservation on endangered species, Article 24, Freshwater wetlands permit,
and as well as following other regulations of the National Environmental Protection Act.
Mr. Wiegman made a motion that the Water Control Commission declared its intent to be Lead
Agency, seconded by Ms. Sasso, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL
CALL: Greenbaum AYE, Wiegman AYE, Goldfarb AYE, Sasso AYE and Dr. Besvinick absent.)
The application will be sent to involved agencies for their consent for the Water Control
Commission to be Lead Agency. After 30 days, the Water Control Commission can declare
itself Lead Agency and will refer the application to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for its
recommendation on the LWRP 44 policies and Coastal Assessment Form.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to approve the minutes of July 15, 2021, seconded by Mr.
Wiegman, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0, all in favor (Dr. Besvinick absent).
Chairman Greenbaum asked about the followup of the Half Moon Bay promenade. The Village
Engineer explained that the HOA gave the village the bond, and he has issued a letter which
allowed the HOA to proceed with the work. The HOA considers this a spring project, and the
Village Engineer will reach out to the President of the HOA, Mr. Eugene Kim.
Chairman Greenbaum stated that he hopes the project will start soon since there had been
homeowners at HMB who had believed that the repair of the revetment was a priority. The
Village Engineer stated that the HOA had expressed interest in moving forward with asphalt.
4. ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to adjourn the meeting, second Mr. Wiegman, and the
motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (all present in favor).

