WATER CONTROL COMMISSION
DRAFT MINUTES OF THE MEETING ON WEDNESDAY,
JUNE 17, 2020 AT 4:30 P.M.

PRESENT: Chairman Greenbaum
         Ms. Sasso
         Mr. Goldfarb

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E./Village Engineer

1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Greenbaum called the meeting of the Water Control Commission on
June 17, 2020 to order.

2. NEW BUSINESS

a) 34 Brook Street LLC-- 34 Brook Street (Sec. 78.08 Block 5 Lots 31,32)--
Referral by Planning Board for review and recommendation of wetlands permit
for disturbance in the watercourse buffer zone for site improvements associated
with the conversion to a multi-family building.

This application has been referred by the Planning Board for a recommendation of a wetlands
permit for disturbance in the watercourse buffer zone for site improvements associated with the
conversion to a multi-family building. There is a stream channel that goes underneath the
building and discharges into the Hudson River.

The Water Control Commission discussed the application with Mr. Conte, owner, and the
members reviewed the submitted site plan and the photographs of the site. Mr. Conte had
addressed all but one of the items on the list that the Planning Board had recommended; Mr.
Conte stated that he intends to make all improvements recommended.

The recommendations that were addressed are as follows:
1. Existing garbage bins and slab to be removed and relocated to new location with 4 ft.
   high chain link fence enclosure for garbage recycling to protect the watercourse from
   floatable debris.
2. Remove existing pipe rack and install silt fence between any disturbed area and stream
   prior to construction.
3. Grade, seed and mulch any disturbed soil area when work is completed.

The Water Control Commission unanimously recommended that the Planning Board issue the
Wetlands Permit for the above-referenced property. Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to
recommend the Wetlands Permit, seconded by Mr. Goldfarb, and the motion carried by a vote
of 3-0. (Both Mr. Wiegman and Dr. Besvinick were absent).

b) Gilday, Kerri, and Hilmar Fenger--40 Prospect Place (Sec. 67.20 Block 4 Lot 20) --
Referral from the Planning Board for a Wetlands Permit (disturbance in
waterbody/watercourse buffer zone) for proposed building additions at 40 Prospect
Place.

The homeowners, Ms. Kerri Gilday and Mr. Hilmar Fenger, with Mr. Spade, architect, described
the proposed construction of building additions (first floor bedroom and bathroom and a new
family room) which would serve the needs of the homeowners' handicapped daughter and
increase in a modest amount the small living space for their family of five. Because the
proposed construction would occur within the 120 ft. buffer zone from the existing pond, a
wetlands permit is required for the minor site plan approval.

The architect noted that he would utilize posts and piers for structural support of the proposed
addition in order to limit the volume of ground disturbance.

After a review of the site plan and photographs in addition to a discussion with the homeowners
and architect, the Water Control Commission agreed that the proposed project is both
appropriate and needed given the needs of the owner's handicapped daughter and the limited
living space for a family of five. Chairman Greenbaum stated that it was clear that the family
would want to protect the little pond, since they use it and it is in their best interest to protect it.

The Water Control Commission made the following recommendations:
1. Erosion and sedimentation control measures are to be utilized in order to protect the
   slope going down towards the pond.
2. Silt fencing shall be installed.

Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to recommend a wetlands permit, seconded by Ms.
Sasso, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0 (in favor). Both Mr. Wiegman and Dr. Besvinick
were absent.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to approve the minutes of June 19, 2019, seconded by
Mr. Goldfarb, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0 (all in favor, Mr. Wiegman and Dr.
Besvinick absent).

4. ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to adjourn the meeting, second Mr. Goldfarb, and the
motion carried by a vote of 3-0 (all present in favor).
