WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ZOOM VIDEOCONFERENCE ON
APRIL 14, 2021 AT 4:30 p.m.
PRESENT:

Chairman Kauderer
Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Len Simon
Ms. Ann Gallelli
Dr. Merrily Besvinick

Chairman Kauderer opened the meeting at 4:30 p.m.
a) Referral from Village Board on special permit application from Regan Development
Corporation for a multi-unit residential building on the parcel located at 41-45 Maple
Street for recommendation of consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program (LWRP).
Mr. Jamie Easton,P.E., of Prime Companies, described the proposed project for two two-story
buildings (one with 11 units and the other with 22 units). Affordable housing is a large part of
this development He explained the concept plan with the streetscape, parking lot in the rear,
retaining walls to help with noise attenuation, and a small public park. It was pointed out that
one of the main issues will be traffic and the village is waiting for the traffic consultant to see
how this is going to work.
The WAC reviewed the CAF and the 44 LWRP policies (see attached memo).
Mr. Greenbaum made a motion to make a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Dr.
Besvinick, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0. (ROLL CALL: Greenbaum AYE,
Simon AYE, Besvinick AYE, Kauderer AYE, Gallelli AYE)
b) Referral from Village Board on Introductory Local Law of 2021, to amend Section 23044, Signs, of the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code to permit lawn signs without time
restrictions in the residential zoning district of the Village.
The Waterfront Advisory Committee reviewed the CAF and the 44 LWRP Policies.
There were no changes to the CAF nor were any policies applicable to the proposed law (see
attached memo).
Mr. Simon made a motion to make a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Dr.
Besvinick, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL: Greenbaum AYE,
Simon AYE, Besvinick AYE, Kauderer AYE, Gallelli AYE).

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Dr. Besvinick made a motion to approve the minutes of January 6, 2021, seconded by Mr.
Simon, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0 all in favor.
4. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

Chairman
BRUCE KAUDERER
Members
SHERRY HOROWITZ
STUART GREENBAUM
ANN GALLELLI
MERRILY BESVINICK

Waterfront Advisory Committee

Attorney

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

TO:

Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM:

Bruce Kauderer, Chairman of the Waterfront Advisory Committee

SUBJECT:

Referral from Village Board on special permit application from Regan Development
Corporation for a multi-unit residential building on the parcel located at 41-51 Maple
Street for recommendation of consistency with the Village’s Local
Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).

DATE:

April 15, 2021

On April 14, 2021, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced referral for
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP). Based on the review of
the Coastal Assessment Form (CAF) dated February 26, 2021, and the concept plan, the WAC made a
recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 5-0.
In a review of the CAF, the following changes were noted:
•

On page 2, C. COASTAL ASSESSMENT 1. “Will the proposed action be located in, or contiguous
to, or have a potentially adverse effect upon any of the resource areas identified on the coastal area
map” The answer should be Yes, not NO because the entire village is considered to be in the
Coastal Zone.

The WAC evaluated this application for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy standards and
conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further explained and described in
Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies in the LWRP and believe that the
policies listed below are applicable to this application.
The policies the WAC believes are relevant are as follows:
Policy 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and facilities essential
to such development are adequate, except when such development has special functional requirements
or other characteristics which necessitate its location in other coastal areas.
Policy 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the current service
area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
Policies 5 and 5A are applicable and the proposed project is consistent with these policies. It was explained
by the engineer associated with the project that a DEC general permit for stormwater will need to be applied
for and water quality and quantity will need to be addressed in the report and incorporated into the
stormwater management system. There will be underground storm water infiltraton of storm water and
controlled release rate for stormwater management.

Policy 5C: Limit proposed development within those portions of the coastal zone boundary area, where
traffic impacts such as site distance and carrying capactiy of the roadways are restricted, particularly
along Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route 129.
This policy is applicable and the proposed application consistent with this policy. The WAC members noted
that there are concerns about traffic control and safety in this area of the village, and it will be important to
address impacts of the proposed development in this location. The environmental consultants for this
project are conducting a traffic study which is in progress but has not yet been completed.
Policy 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, amd other contaminants from polluting surface and
ground water and impact the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in erosion or flooding
at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity shall be timed so that
spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
Policy 7G: Such activities must not cause degradation of water quality or impact identified significatn
fish and wildlife habitats.
These policies are applicable and the proposed application consistent to these policies. Runoff from the
site ultimately discharges into the Hudson River. With adequate stormwater management devices installed
on site, pollutants from stormwater runoff will be minimized.
The proposed application is consistent with these policies because the applicant shall be required to
provide stormwater drainage plans and the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) as required by
the Village Stormwater law and DEC regulations.
Policy 1l: Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to minimize damage to
property and the endangering of human lives caused by flooding and erosion.
Policy 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to safeguard persons,
protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by guiding,
regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or other
activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.
Policy 13: The construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures shall be undertaken only
if they have a reasonable probability of controlling erosion for at least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or assured maintenance or replacement programs.
Policy 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction of erosion protection
structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no measureable increase in erosion or flooding at
the site of such activities or development, or at other locations.
These policies are applicable and the proposed application consistent with these policies. The applicant
has written in the Coastal Assessment Form that “[a] stabilized construction entrance, fiber logs, silt
fence, catch basin inlet protection and other erosion controls will be utilized on-site.” Retaining walls
will be included as part of the proposed project’s design to prevent erosion of steep soil cuts. The
concrete block retaining walls to be constructed will last for at least thirty years or longer.
A sediment and erosion control plan will also be required to be prepared along with a stormwater
management plan in compliance with the Village Stormwater law and DEC regulations.

2

Policy 18: To safeguard the vital economic, social and environmental interestsof the state and of its
citizens, proposed major actions in the coastal area must giv full consideration to those interests, and to
the safeguards which the state has established to protect valuable coastal resource areas.
Policy 33:
Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater runoff and combined sewer
overflows draining into coastal waters.
Policy 33A:
Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as to not increase flows within the
existing system or to improve existing stormwater runoff systems so that runoff from such developments
does not adversely impact coastal waters.
Policy 37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point discharge of excess
nutrients, organics and eroded soils into coastal waters.
Policy 37A: Standards and specifications for the control of non-point source discharge as set forth in
Westchester County’s Best Management Practice Manual or other recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
Policy 37B:
Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be exerted in order to prevent erosion and
minimize runoff and flooding from new construction.
These policies are applicable to the proposed project and the proposed application consistent with these
policies. The proposed project will introduce new impervious surfaces to a vacant site. Best management
practices are proposed to manage stormwater runoff on-site. A full SWPPP will be prepared. Stormwater
runoff will be collected on-site via a closed drainage system and directed to an underground infiltration
array with an overflow to a catch basin on the NYSDOT Right of Way. There is no waterbody, water course,
or wetlands near the proposed project.
The WAC believes that the proposed application will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts
on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards and conditions. Because there are
no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider alternative actions or
mitigation measures.
It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

3

Chairman
BRUCE KAUDERER
Members
LEN SIMON
MERRILY BESVINICK
ANN GALLELLI
STUART GREENBAUM

Waterfront Advisory Committee

Attorney

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

To:

Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

From:

Bruce Kauderer, Chairman of Waterfront Advisory Committee

Subject:

Referral from Village Board on Introductory Local Law of 2021, to amend
Section 230-44, Signs, of the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code to permit
lawn signs without time restrictions in the residential zoning district of the
Village.

Date:

April 15, 2021

On April 14, 2021, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced
referral for consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).
Based on the review of the Coastal Assessment Form (CAF) and the proposed subdivision map,
the WAC made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 5-0.
There are no changes that were noted in the Coastal Assessment Form.
The WAC evaluated this referral for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy standards
and conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further explained and
described in Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies in the LWRP and
believe that there are no policies that are applicable to this referral.
The WAC believes that the proposed application will not have any potentially significant adverse
impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards and conditions.
Because there are no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider
alternative actions or mitigation measures.
Since there is nothing in the proposed revisions to section 230-44 of the Village Code that is
inconsistent, the WAC makes a recommendation of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

