VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, NEW YORK
MINUTES OF THE WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, July 16, 2020
PRESENT:

ALSO PRESENT:
ABSENT:

1.

2.

Bruce Kauderer, Chairman
Ann Gallelli
Stuart Greenbaum
Sherry Horowitz
Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Merrily Besvinick

Call to Order
Chairman Kauderer called the meeting to order at 4:30 p.m.
REFERRALS
a) Referral from the Planning Board to review for SEQR purposes the application for Half
Moon Bay Promenade and Revetment Stabilization plan.

Chairman Kauderer noted that as a member of the Planning Board, the Planning Board had
discussed the Half Moon Bay application and agreed that the Half Moon Bay Revetment is in a
deteriorating condition. However, the Planning Board had also unanimously agreed that the
field stones on the promenade should be replaced, or at the very least, there needed to be a
smooth surface for the promenade, on which walkers, runners, and disabled persons could
safely navigate.
Mr. Greenbaum, Chairman of the Water Control Commission, and a member of the WAC,
stated that the Water Control Commission had recommended that the revetment be repaired as
quickly as possible given its deteriorating condition. The WCC did not believe the decision
about the surface of the walkway was in their purview.
The WAC members reviewed the CAF, and noted the changes as stated in the attached memo.
Along with the changes recommended, the WAC also asked that the applicant provide details to
the “yes” responses prior to the July 28 Planning Board meeting.
The committee reviewed the LWRP 44 policies, as itemized with additional comments in the
attached memo.
Much of the discussion focused on the consistency of the application with the policies as it
concerns the promenade repair. Chairman Kauderer asserted that he did not believe the
application was consistent if the field stones remained on the promenade. He believed that a
promenade with field stones was not consistent with recreational use.
Ms. Gallelli noted that the promenade repair is a restoration, and therefore consistent, although

at this point it is unknown what the restoration will look like.
The WAC agreed that the application was consistent if qualifications were included in the
comment section of the policies.
As noted in the memo, the WAC members agreed that if the pathway is restored from a
currently deteriorated condition so that it could be used by the public, including people with
disabilities, it would be applicable and consistent if it accomplishes that purpose.
Mr. Ed Doherty, Half Moon Bay resident, asked if he could speak and noted that he had already
spoken at the WCC and Planning Board meetings. He stated that the entire discussion was
focused on the riverwalk but from his point of view, as an adjacent landowner, a wetland permit
is necessary for repairs for revetment. He believed that the contractor exceeded the scope of
the wall and that if he hadn’t done this, there would be no discussion about replacing the
pathway stones.
He asserted that the wetland permit was necessary to repair the revetment and that the wall
repair is necessary for the safety and security of the homes which are protected by that
revetment. He asserted that the stones have been there from the beginning of the development
and had been required by the approved site plan. He did not believe that a wetlands permit was
necessary for the paving.
Chairman Kauderer stated that he believed it was the right of the Planning Board to condition
the wetlands permit. The Planning Board in 1998 may have originally required the field stones
but time and experience has shown that this was a mistake. Chairman Kauderer stated that
the committee wanted to see the wall fixed as soon as possible but it was difficult to understand
why the HOA would litigate this in order to prevent persons with disabilities from traversing the
path.
Mr. Greenbaum stated that he thought the wall repair should be done as soon as possible,
perhaps ahead of what kind of walkway would be installed, however, in viewing the site, he
believed that the more time the work was not done, the more erosion problems might occur. He
suggested that the wall get repaired as soon as possible, and then a discussion about the
walkway could take place.
Chairman Kauderer stated that he did not disagree with the fact that the wall repair is urgent,
and wondered if there are any other permits that are required for the wetlands permit. Mr.
Doherty mentioned the DEC and the Army Corps of Engineers.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that there was a letter from the DEC which stated that they did not
need a permit, and although not prepared to discuss at this meeting, Mr. Mastromonaco stated
that a Nationwide permit might cover the work and therefore a permit from the Army Corps
might not be needed.

2

The Village Engineer stated that the Planning Board will make a decision on the wetlands permit
conditioned on getting other permits if required.
The Village Engineer also stated that both the walkway and the revetment require a wetlands
permit. Mr. Greenbaum stated that the WCC recommended that a wetlands permit be issued.
Mr. Plotkin, also a Half Moon Bay resident, stated that according to the HMB bylaws, there
needed to be 80% approval for a change in the pathway surface, and this approval may not be
possible to obtain.
Chairman Kauderer stated that it did not matter about the 80% vote because the HOA is subject
to the village code and laws, and the village is not bound by the bylaws.
Ms Lynn Harmonay, also of Half Moon Bay, stated that the revetment must be repaired and that
the lack of repair, and subsequent erosion, might ultimately affect the buildings. Mr.
Mastromonaco stated that he thought it would be difficult to do the repair of the revetment at a
different time than doing the walkway.
The WAC agreed to make a recommendation of consistency, with qualifications, as noted in the
review of the LWRP policies (see attached).
MOTION: Ms. Gallelli made a motion to recommend consistency, with comments, seconded by
Mr. Greenbaum, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Dr. Besvinick was absent).
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Ms. Gallelli made a motion to approve the minutes of November xx, 2019, seconded by
Chairman Kauderer, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0 (Dr. Besvinick was absent).
4. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was adjourned at 6:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

3

Chairman
BRUCE KAUDERER
Members
SHERRY HOROWITZ
MERRILY BESVINICK
ANN GALLELLI
STUART GREENBAUM

Waterfront Advisory Committee

Attorney

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

MEMO TO: Robert Luntz, Chairman of Planning Board
FROM:

Bruce Kauderer, Chairman of Waterfront Advisory Committee

DATE:

July 20, 2020

RE:

Half Moon Bay Promenade and Revetment Repair—Consistency Review

On July 16, 2020, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral from the Planning Board
regarding the application for a Wetlands Activity Permit to repair the Half Moon Bay Promenade
and Revetment along the Hudson River. Based on the Committee’s review of the the Coastal
Assessment Form (CAF) dated February 26, 2020 and the review of the 44 LWRP policies, the
Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency, with qualifications,
with the LWRP. The vote was 4-0 all in favor (Dr. Besvinick was absent).
In a review of the Coastal Assessment Form, the following changes are recommended:
• Page 1: Present Land Use: Change from “Condominium Use” to “Walkway and
revetment in condominium development (Discovery Cove portion)”
• Page 3:
2B: Will the proposed action have a signficant effect upon: Scenic quality of the
coastal environment? This should be YES, not NO, because repair of the promenade will
enable residents to enjoy the scenic view.
2F: Stability of the shoreline: Should be YES since the repair of the revetment
will maintain that stability.
2H: Existing or potential public recreation opportunities? Should be YES since
with the repair of the promenade and revetment public recreation is encouraged. At
present, the promenade is closed to the public.
• Page 4: If project is to be located adjacent to shore:
4(a)(7): Is it located in an area of high erosion? The answer should be yes,
erosion exists.
4L: Does the project involve discharge of toxic hazardous substances or other
pollutants into coastal waters? Same answer No, provided best practices are used for
erosion and sediment control.
• Page 5: Remarks:
The applicant should delete the first paragraph regarding consistency and instead
provide more detailed comments for the “yes” responses.
The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies were
relevant:
POLICY 1: Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and underutilized waterfront areas
for commercial, industrial, cultural, recreational and other compatible uses.

This policy is applicable to the proposed Half Moon Bay promenade and revetment repair
project. It is consistent with this policy based on the assumption that the promenade path will be
restored from its currently deteriorated condition to a path that has a smooth surface and can be
traversed safely by the public (including those with disabilities).
POLICY 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved, and,
where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.
POLICY 7A: The quality of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall be protected and improved for
conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and other public uses and values. Its
resources shall be protected from the threat of pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.
POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the Haverstraw
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on
land within, the area of influence in the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to
drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the signficant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measureable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity
shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely
affected.
POLICY 7G: Such activities must not cause degradation of water quality or impact identified
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
These policies are applicable and the proposed Half Moon Bay promenade and revetment repair
project is consistent only if Best Practices are used for the construction of the promenade and
repair of the revetment in order to prevent sedimentation from stone dust and other materialsfrom
entering the Hudson River. The work area is adjacent to Haverstraw Bay which is a designated
signficant coastal fish and wildlife habitat.
POLICY 9B: Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated
significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon Society Sanctuaries, on other public or
private lands within the Village, where wildlife habitats are located. Encorage the recreational
use of areas where such resources are found, as well as the protection of such resources.
This policy is applicable and the proposed project is consistent because the repair of the
promenade and revetment will encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the Hudson River.
The Waterfront Advisory Committee members reiterated that the project is only consistent if the
promenade is repaired in a manner that provides a smooth surface that can be safely navigated
by the public including walkers, runners, people with strollers, and handicapped persons. At
present, the promenade cannot be used by the public since it is in a deteriorated state. The repair
of this path and the revetment will encourage recreational use.
2

POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to
safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the
public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or
results in earth movement.
POLICY 13: The construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable probability of controlling erosion for at least thirty
years as demonstrated in design and construction standards and/or assured maintenance or
replacement programs.
POLICY 13A: Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be maintained in good condition and
private landowners should be required to restore and maintain erosion control mechanisms
along their river frontage which are designed for long term stability.
POLICY 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no measurable increase
in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities or development, or at other locations.
These policies are applicable and the proposed project is consistent. Erosion and sediment
control measures are necessary to ensure that during the repair of the promenade no sediment
from stone dust and/or sand is discharged into the Hudson River. Applicable erosion and
sediment control measures shall also be used during the repair of the revetment to ensure no
impacts to the Hudson River.
POLICY 19: Protect, maintain, and increase the level and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities so that these resources and facilities may be fully
utilized in accordance with reasonable anticipated public recreation needs and the protection
of historic and natural resources. In providing such access, priority will be given to public
beaches, boating facilities, fishing areas and waterfront parks.
POLICY 19A: Encourage the linkage of open space along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in
the form of a trail or walkway system. Such systems should be provided along undeveloped
and underutilized land as well as along previously developed land.
POLICY 19B: Increase physical access to areas that have specific value for their physical and
visual access to the Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
These policies are applicable and the proposed Half Moon Bay promenade and revetment repair
is consistent with the qualification that the path has to be restored from a currently deteriorated
state to a smooth surface that can be safely navigated by the public for public recreation needs.
The surface of the path should be safe for walker, walkers with strollers, and any member of the
public who might be disabled.

3

POLICY 25: Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made resources which are not
identified as being of statewide significance, but which contribute to the overall scenic quality
of the coastal area.
This policy is applicable and consistent if the promenade can be traversed safely by all members
of the public to enjoy the overall scenic quality.
POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater
runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.
POLICY 37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point discharge
of excess nutrients, organics and eroded soils into coastal waters.
POLICY 37A: Standards and specifications for the control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County’s Best Management Practice Manual or other recognized
reference shall be utilized during development of any site.
These policies are consistent with and applicable to the proposed project. Best Management
Practices must be utilized to reduce any impacts to the Hudson River.
The WAC believes that the proposed improvements will not have any potentially significant
adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards. Because
there are no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider
alternative actions or mitigation measures.
The Waterfront Advisory Committee members agreed that the repair of the revetment is
necessary to address the ongoing rapid deterioration of the revetment and should be repaired as
soon as possible to prevent further deterioration. That said, it was also agreed that the
promenade should be restored so that it will encourage recreational enjoyment and to achieve
this purpose, should be a smooth surface such that it can be safely traversed by all members of
the public, including members of the public who are disabled.
It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum, with qualifications, that the WAC issues its
recommendation of consistency.

4

