MINUTES OF THE WATER CONTROL COMMISSION
WEDNESDAY, July 21, 2021 at 5:30 p.m.
PRESENT: Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Mark Goldfarb
Dr. Merrily Besvinick
Mr. Richard Wetherbee
ABSENT: Mr. Leo Wiegman
Also Present: Dan O’Connor, Village Engineer
1. Call to order:
Chairman Greenbaum called the meeting of the July 21, 2021 Water Control Commission to
order at 5:30 p.m. Chairman Greenbaum welcomed Mr. Richard Wetherbee, the commission’s
newest member replacing Ms. Gail Sasso. Mr. Wetherbee stated that he has a background in
environmental consulting and is looking forward to participating on this board.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Lewis, Thomas, Agent for Trillium Invasive Species Management, Inc,--Application for
renewal of a Wetland Activity Permit for a multi-year herbicide application project to
control phragmites australis and knot weed (invasive species) in Croton Landing Park
(Sec. 67.19 Block 5 Lot 1), Senasqua Park (Sec. 78.12 Block 1 Lot 1), Duck Pond Park
(Sec. 79.09 Blk. 10 Lot 1), Kaplan’s Pond (Sec. 67.16 Blk. 2 Lot 22), Gouveia Park (Sec.
67.14 Blk. 3 Lot 11), and Black Rock Park (Sec. 68.18 Blk. 2 Lot 3).
Mr. Lewis, representative of Trillium Invasive Species Management, Inc. has been working on
the infestation of phragmites and knotweed in the village’s parks (Croton Landing, Senasqua,
Duck Pond, Kaplan’s Pond, Gouveia, Black Rock Park) for over a period of several years
beginning in 2016. The herbicide applications have been effective in reducing the phragmites,
porcelain berry and knotweed in the parks, but requires continued herbicide applications in
order to eradicate all of the invasive species.
MOTION: Dr. Besvinick made a motion to approve the renewal of the wetlands permit to
continue treatment of the invasive species in the parks, seconded by Mr. Goldfarb, and the
motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Wiegman absent).
b) Lewis, Thomas, Agent for Trillium Invasive Species Management, Inc, -- Application for
renewal of a Wetland Activity Permit for a multi-year herbicide application project to
control phragmites australis (invasive species) in Jane E. Lytle Memorial Arboretum
(Sec. 67.12 Blk. 1 Lots 5 and 13).
Mr. Lewis explained that there had been phragmites growing in and around the wetlands
surrounding the boardwalk in the arboretum since the project started in 2015, herbicide

application and stem-cutting has been effective in this one location but requires further
treatment via cut-stem treatment in order to eradicate the phragmites completely.
MOTION: Mr. Goldfarb made a motion for the renewal of the wetlands permit for a period of
two years, seconded by Mr. Wetherbee, and the motion was carried by a vote of 3-0 (Mr.
Wiegman absent, and Dr. Besvinick abstained because she is a member of the board of the
Arboretum).
The Village Engineer explained that both permits have expiration dates of October 15, 2022,
with the same conditions.
3. MINUTES
The minutes submitted were from the wrong date, so the May 5, 2021 minutes will be provided
to the WCC at its next meeting for approval.
3. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business before the Water Control Commission, the meeting was
adjourned at 6:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Water Control Commission

