VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON, NEW YORK
MINUTES OF THE WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Video Conference Thursday, October 28, 2020
PRESENT:

Bruce Kauderer, Chairman
Ann Gallelli
Stuart Greenbaum
Sherry Horowitz
Merrily Besvinick

ALSO PRESENT:

Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer

1.

Call to Order
Chairman Kauderer called the meeting to order at 4:35 p.m.

2.

REFERRALS
a) 25 South Riverside Avenue -- (Sec. 78.8 Block 5 Lots 42, 43, 59, 60)—Referral by Village
Board to review special permit application for the purposes of SEQR on the proposed 39-unit,
multi-family housing building.

PRESENT: Mr. Kory Salomone, Mr. Ralph Rossi
Mr. Salomone briefly summarized the proposed project for the 39-unit all residential multi-family
dwelling on 1.2 acres of land on South Riverside Avenue.
The Waterfront Advisory Committee reviewed and discussed the Coastal Assessment Form and
the LWRP 44 policies for consistency (memo attached).
Mr. Greenbaum made a motion to recommend this application for consistency with the LWRP,
seconded by Ms. Gallelli, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0 (ROLL CALL VOTE: Mr.
Greenbaum yes, Chairman Kauderer, yes, Dr. Besvinick, yes, Ms. Horowitz, yes, and Ms.
Gallelli, yes)
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Ms. Gallelli made a motion to approve the minutes July 16, 2020, as amended, seconded by Mr.
Greenbaum, and the motion carried in favor by a vote of 4-0-1 (one abstention)
4. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was adjourned at 5:25 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

Chairman
BRUCE KAUDERER
Members
SHERRY HOROWITZ
STUART GREENBAUM
ANN GALLELLI
MERRILY BESVINICK

Waterfront Advisory Committee

Attorney

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

TO:

Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM: Bruce Kauderer, Chairman of the Waterfront Advisory Committee
RE:

25 South Riverside Avenue – Consistency Review

DATE:

October 30, 2020

On October 28, 2020, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced referral
for consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP). Based on the review
of the Coastal Assessment Form (CAF) dated October 16, 2020, the site plans for both the existing site and
the site plan for the proposed building with elevations, and Traffic Analysis report dated October 22, 2020,
the WAC made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 5-0.
In a review of the CAF, the following changes were noted:
•

On page 3, 3. Will the proposed action involve or result in any of the following:
j) Construction or reconstruction of erosion protective structures? The WAC members
recommended that the NO should be changed to YES since the existing retaining walls are proposed
to be rebuilt and other new walls are proposed that will stabilize and prevent erosion of the steep
slope.

The WAC evaluated this application for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy standards and
conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further explained and described in
Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies in the LWRP and believe that the
policies listed below are applicable to this application.
The policies the WAC believes are relevant are as follows:
Policy 1:
Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and underutilized waterfront areas for commercial,
industrial, cultural, recreational and other compatible uses.
This policy is applicable and the proposed project is consistent with this policy. The proposed 39-unit
residential building with four affordable apartments seems to be a good use of underutilized land. The
development plan complies with the requirements of the recently established Riverside Transition C1-R(B)
Zoning district which allows residential use by special permit.
Policy 5:
Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and facilities essential to such
development are adequate, except when such development has special functional requirements or other
characteristics which necessitate its location in other coastal areas.

Policy 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the current service
area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
Policies 5 and 5A are applicable and the proposed project is consistent with these policies because there is
already an existing one story commercial building located where public services and existing water and
sewer lines already exist. According to the Village Engineer, there will be adequate water supply and sewer
capacity for the proposed 39-unit residential building.
Policy 5C:
Limit proposed development within those portions of the coastal zone boundary area, where traffic
impacts such as site distance and carrying capactiy of the roadways are restricted, particularly along
Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route 129.
This policy is applicable and the proposed application consistent with this policy. Route 9A in this area has
adequate sight distance and carrying capacity. Based on an updated Traffic Analysis, dated October 22,
2020, and prepared by Provident Design Engineering, the study concluded that the proposed residential
building will not have a significant traffic impact on the roadways.
Policy 7E:
Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer overflows shall be effectively
channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, amd other contaminants from polluting surface and ground water
and impact the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 7F:
Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity shall be timed so that spawning of
anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
These policies are applicable and the proposed application consistent to these policies. Runoff from the
site ultimately discharges into the Hudson River. With adequate stormwater management devices installed
on site, pollutants from stormwater runoff will be minimized. There will be a stormwater storage area and
oil and grit separator in order to catch stormwater runoff and remove sediment, floating debris, and other
particulates from the stormwater runoff. As per standard protocol, this oil and grit separator will be cleaned
annually by the applicant.
The proposed application is consistent with these policies because the applicant shall be required to
provide stormwater drainage plans and the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) as required by
the Village Stormwater law.
Policy 1l:
Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to minimize damage to property and
the endangering of human lives caused by flooding and erosion.
Policy 11A:
Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to safeguard persons, protect
property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.
Policy 13: The construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures shall be undertaken only
if they have a reasonable probability of controlling erosion for at least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or assured maintenance or replacement programs.

2

Policy 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction of erosion protection
structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no measureable increase in erosion or flooding at
the site of such activities or development, or at other locations.
These policies are applicable and the proposed application consistent with these policies. Construction of
the proposed building will result in the replacement of the retaining walls on the hillside behind the
proposed building. A steep slope permit and calculations will be required.
A sediment and erosion control plan will also be required to be prepared along with a stormwater
management plan in compliance with the Village Stormwater law.
Policy 17:
Whenever possible, use non-structural measures to minimize damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion. Such measures shall include: (i) the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the installation of sand fencing and drainng; (iii) the reshaping of buffs;
and (iv) the flood –proofing of buildings or their elevation above the base flood level.
Policy 17A:
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers and on the steep slopes rising from areas inland shall be of a
non-structural nature, wherever possible, in consideration of the visual impact of structural measures.
The retention or planting of vegetative covers will be preferred to structural measures.
These policies are applicable and the proposed application consistent with these policies. Measures will be
required to minimize erosion especially in the steep slope area. The existing vegetation on the slope behind
the existing building and retaining wall area will be disturbed due to the proposed additional excavation
into the steep slope area. The Stormwater Management Plan along with detailed engineering plans during
the site plan approval process will need to specifically address this concern. The proposed building is not
in the FEMA floodplain.
Policy 33:
Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater runoff and combined sewer
overflows draining into coastal waters.
Policy 33A:
Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as to not increase flows within the
existing system or to improve existing stormwater runoff systems so that runoff from such developments
does not adversely impact coastal waters.
Policy 37B:
Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be exerted in order to prevent erosion and
minimize runoff and flooding from new construction.
These policies are applicable to the proposed project and the proposed application consistent with these
policies because erosion control measures will be required to be submitted when the applicant submits an
Amended Site Plan application. There is no waterbody, water course, or wetlands near the proposed project.
Special attention will need to be paid to the steep slope disturbance.
The WAC believes that the proposed application will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts
on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards and conditions. Because there are
no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider alternative actions or
mitigation measures.
It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

3

