WATER CONTROL COMMISSION
DRAFT MINUTES OF THE MEETING ON WEDNESDAY,
July 15, 2020 AT 4:30 P.M.
PRESENT: Chairman Greenbaum
Leo Wiegman
Mark Goldfarb
ABSENT:

Gail Sasso
Merrily Besvinick

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Conor, P.E./Village Engineer
Sherry Horowitz, Village Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Greenbaum called the meeting of the Water Control Commission on
July 15, 2020 to order at 4:30 via Zoom VideoConference. The committee is
unable to meet in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association--Half Moon Bay Condominiums-Referral to Water Control Commission on application for Wetlands Permit for
proposed Promenade and Revetment Stabilization plan.
Mr. Ralph Mastromonoco, P.E., consulting engineer for Half Moon Bay Homeowners Association
of Half Moon Bay, stated that the Homeowners’ Association wanted to repair the riprap along the
Hudson River and retain the field stone promenade. Because the contractor mistakenly ripped
up the riverwalk, the Village issued a stop work order until the HOA obtained a wetlands permit.
Mr. Mastromonaco stated that from the HOA’s point of view, this is a maintenance issue, they
are not building anything new, and would like to get a positive recommendation for a Wetlands
permit from the Water Control Commission prior to returning to the Planning Board. The
Waterfront Advisory Committee will be reviewing the application the following day.
Chairman Greenbaum noted that there was a May 21, 2020 memo to the Village Attorney from
the Planning Board. The Planning Board cited several reasons to install asphalt and not field
stones. Chairman Greenbaum stated that he had the opportunity to walk on the field stones
and, as the PB suggested, the field stones were unsafe for walkers, runners, and disabled
persons; asphalt would provide a safer and smoother surface. The fieldstones discourage
people from walking on this surface. Chairman Greenbaum noted that different ADA
requirements are now in place and now that the field stones have been removed, there should
be a discussion about what can be installed that is more handicap accessible.

Other attendees at the meeting were Mr. Domingo Ramirez, property manager for HMB, Ms.
Lynn Harmonay, Half Moon Bay resident, Ed Dougherty, Half Moon Bay resident, and Brian
Plotkin, HOA Board member. All spoke of their concerns about the erosion of the waterfront
and also expressed support for keeping the field stones, rather than using asphalt.
After a lengthy discussion (see memo attached), the Water Control Commission members
present agreed that it was up to the Planning Board to decide on whether the field stones or
asphalt would be used for the promenade, but the revetment needed to be repaired to prevent
further damage and erosion.
Mr. Wiegman made a motion that a wetlands permit should be granted with the condition that
sediment and erosion control measures are in place, seconded by Chairman Greenbaum. The
motion carried, all in favor 3-0 (Dr. Besvinick and Ms. Sasso were absent).
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Greenbaum made a motion to approve the minutes of June 17, 2020 seconded by Mr.
Goldfarb, and the motion carried, all present in favor by a vote of 3-0 (Dr. Besvinick and Ms.
Sasso absent).
4. ADJOURNMENT
Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Mr. Goldfarb, and
the motion carried by a vote of 3-0 (all present in favor).

Chairman
STUART GREENBAUM
Members
LEO WIEGMAN
MARK GOLDFARB
MERRILY BESVINICK
GAIL SASSO

WATER CONTROL COMMISSION
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Date:
To:

July 16, 2020
Robert Luntz, Planning Board Chairman

From:

Stuart Greenbaum, Water Control Commission Chairman

Subject:

Recommendation to PB regarding Wetlands Permit for
Half Moon Bay Promenade and Revetment Repair

Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.

At its meeting on July 15, 2020, the Water Control Commission reviewed the referral from the
Planning Board for a Wetland Activity Permit for the Half Moon Bay Promenade and Revetment Repair.
There was a lengthy discussion on the merits of replacing the field stones in this portion of the promenade
with asphalt or an equally smooth and safe walking surface. The Water Control Commission members
also heard supporting reports on the rapidly deteriorating condition of the revetment near the Hudson
River that has occurred over the past year. Chairman Greenbaum agreed having visited the site with the
Assistant Village Engineer on July 9, 2020.
The Water Control Commission members concurred that the field stones were an uneven walking surface
and also discussed the possibility that the previously existing field stones in this portion of the promenade
were installed in such a way as to increase further erosion of the revetment (unevenly placed on the
surface and too far apart).
There was some discussion, should the field stones be re-installed, on the importance of annual
maintenance for field stones and a more skilled approach to installing field stones so that they remain a
smooth and level walking surface. The Water Control Commission members agreed that the decision
about what type of surface installed or materials used on this portion of the promenade was not in the
purview of the Water Control Commission, but rather for the Planning Board to decide.
At the same time, Water Control Commission members present at the meeting acknowledged the
immediacy of the need for a Wetland Activity permit in order to address the ongoing rapid deterioration of
the revetment.
Therefore, the Water Control Commission unanimously (3 to 0) recommends that the Planning Board
issue the Wetlands Permit for the Revetment repair. The recommendation is as follows:
1. That, erosion and sediment control measures must be utilized to ensure that
no further deterioration of the revetment occurs and that remediation of the
revetment take place as soon as possible.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

