WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, July 28, 2021
4:30 p.m.
PRESENT: Ms. Ann Gallelli, Acting Chairman
Dr. Merrily Besvinick
Mr. Len Simon
ABSENT:

Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Bruce Kauderer

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
1) Ms. Gallelli, in Chairman Kauderer’s absence, is serving as Acting Chairman and called
the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of July 28, 2021 to order at 4:30 p.m.
2) REFERRALS
a) Referral from Planning Board for a recommendation of consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program for review of a two-lot
subdivision creating one new building lot at 6 Loconto Street.
Mr. Ralph Mastromonaco, P.E., consulting engineer on behalf of the applicant was present.
This is a two lot subdivision application. At present, there is no construction involved with this
application.
The WAC reviewed the CAF and the changes recommended to update are noted on the memo
attached.
The Planning Board reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as
noted in the memo attached.
MOTION: Dr. Besvinick made a motion to recommend the two-lot subdivision application as
consistent with the LWRP, seconded by Mr. Simon, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of
3-0 (Mr. Greenbaum and Chairman Kauderer absent).
b) Referral from Village Board for a recommendation of consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) on Hudson National
Golf Club (HNGC) amended special permit and site plan approval for
modifications to their ancillary storage area.
Mr. Ralph Mastromonaco, P.E. a consulting engineer on behalf of the HNGC was present to
answer any questions regarding this application.

The WAC reviewed the CAF and the changes recommended are identified in the attached
memo.
The 44 LWRP policies were reviewed and discussed as noted in the attached memo.
MOTION: Mr. Simon made a motion to make a recommendation of consistency, seconded by
Dr. Besvinick, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Greenbaum and Chairman
Kauderer absent).
c) Referral from Village Board for a recommendation of consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization (LWRP) on Introductory Local Law 8 of
2021, to amend Chapter 230 of the Village Code, Zoning, to eliminate the
prohibition against video game and arcade machines, update notification
procedure for sheds and update penalties for offenses.
Ms. Gallelli noted that these are housekeeping changes to the code. The WAC reviewed the
CAF and the 44 Policies of the LWRP.
There were no changes noted on the CAF. The WAC identified one policy that is applicable and
consistent with the LWRP as noted on the attached memo.
MOTION: Dr. Besvinick made a motion to make a recommendation of consistency, seconded
by Mr. Simon, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Greenbaum and Chairman
Kauderer absent).
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Simon made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting on May 5, 2021,
seconded by Dr. Besvinick, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Greenbaum
and Mr. Kauderer absent).
4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:20 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

2

Chairman
BRUCE KAUDERER
Members
LEN SIMON
MERRILY BESVINICK
ANN GALLELLI
STUART GREENBAUM

Waterfront Advisory Committee

Attorney

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

To:

Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

From:

Ann Gallelli, Acting Chairman of Waterfront Advisory Committee

Subject:

Referral from Village Board on Introductory Local Law 8 of 2021, to amend
Chapter 230 of the Village Code, Zoning, to eliminate the prohibition against video
game and arcade machines, update notification procedures for sheds and update
penalties for offenses

Date:

July 30, 2021

On July 28, 2021, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced referral for
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP). Based on the review of
the Coastal Assessment Form (CAF) and the proposed code changes, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 3-0 (Mr. Kauderer and Mr. Greenbaum were absent).
There are no changes that were noted in the Coastal Assessment Form.
The WAC evaluated this referral for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy standards and
conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further explained and described in
Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies in the LWRP and believe that the
following policy is applicable to this referral.
Policy 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and policies.
The WAC believes this policy is applicable and consistent. The proposed changes will ensure that
development within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is consistent with the growth of new businesses (i.e.
video games and arcades) as encouraged in the comprehensive plan. The notification for the modifications
for sheds will make the variance notification process more efficient and more cost effective to the Village
while still providing appropriate notification to owners of adjancent properties.
The WAC believes that the proposed application will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts
on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards and conditions. Because there are
no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider alternative actions or
mitigation measures.
It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

Chairman
BRUCE KAUDERER

Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Members
ANN GALLELLI
STUART GREENBAUM
LEN SIMON
MERRILY BESVINICK
Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
To:

Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees

From:

Ann Gallelli, Acting Chairman of Waterfront Advisory Committee

Subject:

Referral from Village Board on application from HNGC for an amended special
permit and site plan approval for modifications to their ancillary storage area

Date:

July 30, 2021

On July 28, 2021, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced referral for
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP). Based on the review of
the Coastal Assessment Form (CAF) dated February 4, 2021, and documents submitted on the behalf of the
Hudson National Golf Club the WAC made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote
was 3-0 in favor (Mr. Kauderer and Mr. Greenbaum were absent).
In a review of the CAF, the following changes were noted:
Page 1:
B. 1.c) Permit, approval, license, certification: Remove “Site Plan Approval”
Page 2:
B.7: List and describe any unique or unusual land forms within or contiguous to the project site (i.e. bluffs,
dunes, swales, ground depressions, other geological ormations): Include the Jane E. Lytle Arboretum which
is contiguous to Hudson National Golf Club.
B9: “List and describe streams, lakes, ponds or wetlands existing within or contiguous to the project area.”
Give name and size of each if available: Include the Jane E. Lytle Arboretum which is contiguous to Hudson
National Golf Club.
C. COASTAL ASSESSMENT:
Page 2: C 1. Will the proposed action be located in…”NO” should be changed to “YES”
Page 3:
3(j): Will the proposed action involve or result in any of the following: “Construction or
reconstruction of erosion protective structures?” “NO” should be changed to “YES” and described in
more detail in Remarks (Section D) to include that ponds, rip-rap, and levelheaders will be constructed for
erosion control.
3(l): “removal of ground cover from the site”: “NO” should be changed to “YES” and described
in Remarks (Section D) to include that there will a small amount of removal of ground cover (grass) to
create detention basin, but the grass will be replanted.
Page 5: As noted above, D: Remarks or additional information: Remarks should include responses to items
checked as YES (3j, 3l, 4o and 4p)

1

The WAC evaluated this referral for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy standards and
conditions which are further explained and described in Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members
reviewed the policies in the LWRP and believe that the following policies are applicable to this referral and
that the proposed action is consistent with the policies except as as noted in specific policies:
POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological system of
the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the Haverstraw Bay significant fish
and wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of
influence in the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or Haverstraw Bay significant
fish and wildlife habitat shall not be permitted within the area of influence of the habitat unless best
available technology is ued to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
These policies are applicable and consistent. Mr. Mastronomonico, P.E. the consulting engineer
representing the applicant, stated that all chemicals and pesticides used for the golf course are not stored
in or near this ancillary storage area. The Hudson National Golf Club has a specific Environmental
Management Plan that regulates the storage and usage of the pesticides used for the maintenance of the
golf course’s turf and these chemicals are stored in a separate location specifically designed for the
pesticides.
POLICY 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants from polluting surface and
ground water and impact the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
This policy is applicable and consistent. This ancillary storage area includes a private parking lot for
maintenance vehicles. The Hudson National Golf Club is required to provide a list of maintenance
vehicles that will be parked in this area and any oil or grease will be properly disposed of so as to prevent
such contaminants from polluting the surface and ground water. The proposed trench drains with sumps
for sediment storage will remove sediment and other contaminants from storm water.
POLICY 8:
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area from the introduction of hazardous wastes and
other pollutants which bio-accumulate in the food chain or which cause significant sub lethal or lethal
effect on those resources.
This policy is applicable and consistent in that no hazardous materials or pesticides are to be stored in this
ancillary storage area.
POLICY 11: Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to minimize damage
to property and the endangering of human lives caused by flooding and erosion.
This policy is applicable and consistent insofar that the building in this storage area is existing and it is
not located in a floodplain nor is it located on steep slopes.
POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by
guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development
or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.

2

POLICY 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activities or development or at lother locations.

These policies are applicable and consistent. The applicant will be constructing an asphalt swale and
other drainage improvements which will improve drainage conditions by reducing runoff into adjacent
properties and directing flow to the drainage system on Prickly Pear Hill Road; various components of the
drainage improvements will also provide treatment of stormwater to improve quality.
The applicant is proposing landscape buffers and drainage improvements which are intended to protect
the neighboring properties from water runoff and provide screening. The removal of the the pipe that
crosses Prickly Pear Road is intended to confine the drainage to the north side of the Prickly Pear Road
and away from the driveways on the south side.
POLICY 25: Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made resources which are not identified as
being of statewide significance, but which contribute to overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
This policy is applicable and consistent. The proposed screening improvements at this ancillary storage
site will restore some natural resources that contribute to the overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
The planting of additional screening is recommended.
POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater runoff and
combined sewer overflow draining into coastal waters.
POLICY 37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point discharge of excess
nutrients, organic and eroded soils into coastal waters.
POLICY 37A: Standards and specifications for the control of non-point source discharge as set forth in
Westchester County’s Best Management Practice Manual or other recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
POLICY 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the benefits derived from
these areas.
POLICY 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing damage from
erosion or siltation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural habitats and protecting against flood
and pollution.
These policies are consistent with and applicable to the proposed project. Best Management Practices will
be utilized to reduce any drainage impacts on and off site. Wetlands and wetland buffer areas are not
being disturbed.
The WAC believes that the issuance of a special permit to an existing ancillary storage area will not have
any potentially significant adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy
standards. Because there are no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to
consider alternative actions or mitigation measures.
It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

3

Chairman
BRUCE KAUDERER
Members
AMY ATTIAS
MERRILY BESVINCK
ANN GALLELLI
STUART GREENBAUM

Waterfront Advisory Committee

Attorney

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

JAMES STAUDT
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
To:

Robert Luntz, Planning Board Chairman

From:

Ann Gallelli, Acting Chairman of Waterfront Advisory Committee

Subject:

Referral from Planning Board regarding application for preliminary
subdivision approval for two-lot subdivision– 6 Loconto Steet consistency
review

Date:

August 4, 2021

On July 28, 2021, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced referral for
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP). Based on the review of
the Coastal Assessment Form (CAF), the Slope Map, dated June 15, 2021 and the preliminary plat site plan
proposed subdivision plan dated June 15, 2021, the WAC made a recommendation of consistency with the
LWRP. The vote was 3-0 in favor (Chairman Kauderer and Mr. Greenbaum absent).
In a review of the CAF, the following was noted:
•
•
•

On D Remarks or Additional Information: For the following questions answered “YES”, an
explanation should be included:
Page 3,3, “Will the proposed action involve or result in any of the following:”
o j) Construction or reconstruction of erosion protective structures? Explain that silt fence
protection during construction period will be utilized.
Page 5, #4 “Project”
o o) Will the project alter drainage flow, patterns or surface water runoff on or from the site?
Explain that on-site swale will alter the flow (minimally).
o p) Will best management practices be utilized to control storm water runoff into coastal
waters?
Explain that silt fencing will be utilized.

The WAC evaluated this referral for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy standards and
conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further explained and described in
Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies in the LWRP and believe that the
following policies are applicable to this referral and consistent with the LWRP.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

Policy 5:
Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and facilities essential to such
development are adequate, except when such development has special functional requirements or other
characteristics which necessitate its location in other coastal areas.
Policy 5A :
When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the current service area of existing
water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas where distribution lines currently exist.
Policies 5 and 5A are applicable and consistent. The proposed two-lot subdivision already has an
existing house on Lot 1. The existing house is connected to village water and sewer lines. The
future house on the proposed additional lot will also be connected to village water and sewer
facilities.
Policy 7B:
Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological system of the Croton River
and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the Haverstraw Bay significatnt fish and wildlife habitat
shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 33:
Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater runoff and combined sewer
overflows draining into coastal waters.
Policy 33A:
Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as to not increase flows within the
existing system or to improve existing stormwater runoff systems so that runoff from such developments
does not adversely impact coastal waters.
Policy 37B
These policies are applicable and consistent. Best management practices at the time of any house
construction will be utilized (silt fencing, swales, SWPPP plan).
The WAC believes that the proposed application will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts
on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards and conditions. Because there are
no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider alternative actions or
mitigation measures.
It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

