VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
OCTOBER 12, 2021
Present: Chairman Robert Luntz
Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Absent: John Ghegan
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to Order:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of October 12, 2021 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. REFERRALS
a) Referral by the Village Board to the Planning Board for its review and
recommendation of the Special Use Permit application from “The Dessertist” for
a wholesale bakery at 2-4 Croton Point Avenue.
Ms. Samantha Benjamin, owner of “The Dessertist”, a bakery business in Croton for the past six
years, stated that her wholesale business had grown substantially during the pandemic and she
wanted to transition from retail/wholesale to 100% wholesale. The opportunity to create a
wholesale bakery facility with a commercial kitchen in Croton presented itself when the location
at 2-4 Croton Point Avenue became available. Although she will no longer have a retail
business, she will continue to distribute her baked products for sale at local Croton businesses
in addition to stores in Manhattan.
She is applying to the Village Board for a Special Use Permit and, if approved, she will return to
the Planning Board for a Change of Use permit.
The proposed site is below the Green Growler on the lower level of the building.
When asked about delivery trucks, she stated that she does not have any delivery trucks; all the
ingredients and finished products are transported by her and her husband in their car.
She stated that because she is planning to do only wholesale, she is eliminating all walk-in
traffic. She is considering not having any signage because she does not want to give the
impression to pedestrians/commuters that the Dessertist is a walk-in bakery.

She stated that she will park in the building’s private parking lot, and the hours of her business
are completely different from the Green Growler business hours, so there should not be any
parking issues.
The Planning Board reviewed the objectives, as stipulated in §230-58 of the Village Code:
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection:
This proposed wholesale bakery is located in the building at 2-4 Croton Point Avenue, adjacent
to the Croton Harmon Train Station parking lot, and accessible to fire and police protection. The
Harmon firehouse is nearby down the street off of South Riverside Avenue. Hydrants are
located nearby on Croton Point Avenue and Veterans Plaza. The building also has a fire
sprinkler system.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in
conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties:
The proposed location for the wholesale bakery is in the Light Industrial Zoning District and the
proposed wholesale bakery is compatible with the other businesses in this district. The
proposed wholesale bakery will be located in an existing building and is also compatible with the
other businesses in the building.
C. The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the
pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account
the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or
conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets:
The Planning Board agreed that the hours and use will not impact parking or traffic in this
location. The daytime hours of the wholesale bakery will not interfere with the later hours of the
Green Growler located upstairs, and because the bakery’s business is entirely wholesale with
no retail sales offered, there will be no retail vehicle and pedestrian traffic. There will also be no
delivery trucks utilized because the owners deliver the baked goods themselves with their car.
The owners will have at the most two cars parked in the existing parking lot of this building.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of
walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and
buildings and their appropriate development:
The Planning Board agreed that nothing is changing regarding the location and height of the
building as the bakery will be located in an existing building and there are no proposed additions
or changes to the exterior of the building.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands:
2

The Planning Board agreed that this does not apply to the proposed application.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to recommend to the Village Board that the Special Use
Permit be granted, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0
(Mr. Ghegan absent).
3. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
●

●

●
●

●

●

●
●

●
●

●

The Village Engineer gave a follow-up on the discussion with Sol Systems regarding the
solar canopies at the train station. The Village Engineer and the Superintendent of
Public Works are still working with the company to discuss the drainage design and a
cost effective guttering system.
Croton Commons: To date there has been no progress because of other village projects
such as the police station renovations, upgrade of municipal building’s bathrooms, and
other sidewalk maintenance applications which have required a lot of DPW’s time. Due
to the demands on DPW, there has been a sidewalk moratorium issued by the Village
Manager’s Office.
Half Moon Bay: The revetment work has been completed.
Pathway behind Half Moon Bay: There has been some discussion about taking over
some water and sewer easements; there was a meeting with the new president of the
HMB HOA.
Shoprite: The Village Engineer stated that the crosswalk was restriped and the stop bar
installed. Mr. Krisky noted that it might be helpful if the stop signs were more
permanently installed than what exists currently.
Piney Point: The Village Engineer updated the Planning Board on the status of these
two houses: the parking areas have been filled, the retaining walls installed, the piers
tested, and a revised pier plan has been submitted; the telephone poles have been
moved, and a permit has been granted for water services.
23 Nordica Drive: The Village Engineer stated that Dan Ciarcia, P.E, has been working
on the steep slopes aspect of the project.
Abby’s Deli, 370 South Riverside Avenue: To date, there has been no progress towards
obtaining a Certificate of Occupancy. The owner has stated that he is waiting for Con
Ed.
1360 Albany Post Road: A temporary Certificate of Occupancy was issued and they are
working with the NYSDOT on the wall that is in the NYS ROW.
Municipal Place DPW Fueling Station: The Planning Board agreed that the site is very
unsightly. Mr. Kauderer offered as a possible option that perhaps Parking Lot A instead
could be used for the DPW fueling station, and that the Municipal Place location could
be developed for an office or residential building.
Solar array for HNGC: This application will be back on the Village Board agenda on
Monday and the Village Board will call for a public hearing on Monday night. Once the
Village Board issues a Special Permit, the applicant will come back to the Planning
Board for amended site plan approval.
3

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of September 28, 2021, and
seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan absent).
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the Planning Board meeting was
duly adjourned at 8:50 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

4

