WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ZOOM VIDEOCONFERENCE ON
May 5, 2021 AT 4:30 p.m.
PRESENT:

Chairman Kauderer
Mr. Stuart Greenbaum absent
Mr. Len Simon
Ms. Ann Gallelli
Dr. Merrily Besvinick

1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Kauderer opened the meeting at 4:30 p.m.
2. REFERRAL
a) Historic Hudson Valley—525 South Riverside Avenue --Referral from Water
Control Commission for recommendation of consistency with the LWRP on an
application for Wetlands Permit for site improvements including construction of
concrete sidewalks, maintenance of historic brick walkway and stormwater
management, landscape improvements, utility improvements, and roof
replacements, some of which will occur in the 120 ft. wetland/watercourse buffer.
Mr. Ray Darling, of Historic Hudson Valley, stated that this project is an opportunity to bring Van
Cortlandt Manor into the 21st century as there have not been infrastructure improvements since
1960. The goals include completing restorative work such as restoration of the landscape to
colonial landscaping, removal of big damaged trees, restoration of retaining walls, improving
pathways to improve access to the site and improving surfaces to lessen tripping hazards. The
project will include construction of concrete pads for temporary tents, restoration of the driveway
throughout the site, and replacement of the emergency access gate.
Dr. Besvinick stated for the record that she had concerns about the location of the proposed
concrete slabs for the tent because they create more impervious surfaces near a wetland area.
She expressed concerns for the runoff to the river.
The Waterfront Advisory Committee reviewed the CAF and the LWRP Policies as noted in the
attached memo. Dr. Besvinick stated that she did not believe the application was consistent in
Policy 11 because of her concerns about the concrete pads, and noted for the record, her
dissent for consistency on this specific policy.
Ms. Gallelli made a motion to make a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP,
seconded by Mr. Simon, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0 (Greenbaum absent).

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the minutes of April 14, 2021, seconded by Mr. Simon
and the motion was carried by a vote of 4-0 (Greenbaum absent), all in favor.
4. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was adjourned at 5:20 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

Chairman
BRUCE KAUDERER
Members
LEN SIMON
MERRILY BESVINICK
ANN GALLELLI
STUART GREENBAUM

Waterfront Advisory Committee

Attorney

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O’CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
RONNIE ROSE

MEMO TO: Stuart Greenbaum, Chairman of Water Control Commission
FROM:

Bruce Kauderer, Chairman of Waterfront Advisory Committee

DATE:

May 11, 2021

RE:

Historic Hudson Valley Application for Wetlands Permit—Consistency Review

On May 5, 2021, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral from the Water Control
Commission on an application from Historic Hudson Valley for a Wetlands Activity Permit for
site improvements inlcuding construction of concrete sidewalks, maintenance of historic brick
walkway and stormwater management, landscape improvements, utility improvements, and roof
replacements, some of which will occur in the 120 ft. wetland/watercourse buffer located at 525
South Riverside Avenue (Historic Hudson Valley). Based on the Committee’s review of the the
Coastal Assessment Form (CAF) dated March 2, 2021 and the review of the 44 LWRP policies,
the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.
The vote was 5-0 all in favor.
In a review of the Coastal Assessment Form, the following change is recommended:
• Page 2: Will the proposed action be located in, or contiguous to, or have a potentially
adverse effect upon any of the resource areas identified on the coastal area map: The
answer should be YES not NO, because the entire village is located in the coastal area
map.
The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies were
relevant:
POLICY 1: Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and underutilized waterfront areas
for commercial, industrial, cultural, recreational and other compatible uses.
This policy is applicable to and the proposed improvement project is consistent with this policy.
The proposed improvements will help restore and revitalize the Historic Hudson Valley’s historic
site area for its recreational and cultural uses, such as the Blaze event and educational school
visits. Historic Hudson Valley views this proposed project as an “opportunity to make urgentlyneeded improvements that will ensure the safety, comfort, access, and enjoyment of visitors to
Van Cortlandt Manor, as well as restore the Colonial Revival landscape.” Proposed
improvements such as historic landscaping and path restoration of the Long Walk and driveway
improvements will restore and revitalize Van Cortlandt Manor’s deterioriating site.

POLICY 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved, and,
where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.
POLICY 7A: The quality of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall be protected and improved for
conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and other public uses and values. Its
resources shall be protected from the threat of pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.
POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the Haverstraw
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on
land within, the area of influence in the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be permitted within the area of
influence of the habitat unless best available technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to
the habitat.
POLICY 7D: Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitats and shore lands shall be included in any
programs for cleanup of any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
POLICY 7E: Runoff from public and private parkings lots and from storm sewer overflows
shall be effectively channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and impact the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measureable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity
shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely
affected.
POLICY 7G: Such activities must not cause degradation of water quality or impact identified
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
These policies are applicable to and the proposed site improvements project is consistent with
these policies. The use of Best Management Practices will control stormwater runoff into coastal
waters and prevent adverse impacts to the habitat. The existing sedimentation basin outside the
wetland will continue to be utilized.
POLICY 11: Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering of human lives caused by flooding and erosion.
POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to
safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the
public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or
results in earth movement.
2

POLICY 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no measurable increase
in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities or development, or at other locations.
These policies are applicable to and the proposed project is consistent with these policies. The
goal of the proposed site improvement project is make urgently needed improvements that will
ensure the safety and access to Van Cortlandt Manor. Improvements to the pathways will
“ensure that they conform to universal access requirements, reduce trip hazards, and contribute
to overall visitor safety.” The concrete pads for the Visitor Center and Tent complex will ensure
safety and stability of the structures. The gravel drive is to be re-graded to drain to swales to
reduce flooding and erosion. The runoff from the concrete pads will be directed to a grass swale
and then to existing sedimentation basin. Dr. Besvinick expressed concerns about the concrete
pads creating new impervious surfaces in the buffer zone.
POLICY 23: Protect, enhance and restore structures, districts, areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the stae, its community or
the nation.
This policy is applicable to the proposed site improvements and the proposed project is
consistent with this policy. The purpose of this improvement project is to make “urgentlyneeded improvements that will ensure the safety, comfort, access, and enjoyment of visitors to
Van Cortlandt Manor, as well as restore the Colonial Revivial landscape that is central to the
integrity of the National Historic Landmark site.”
POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater
runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.
POLICY 33A: Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing system or to improve existing stormwater runoff systems so
that runoff from such developments does not adversely impact coastal waters.
POLICY 37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point discharge
of excess nutrients, organics and eroded soils into coastal waters.
POLICY 37A: Standards and specifications for the control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County’s Best Management Practice Manual or other recognized
reference shall be utilized during development of any site.
POLICY 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
POLICY 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing
damage from erosion or siltation, minimizing distrubance, preserving natural habitats and
protecting against flood and pollution.
These policies are consistent with and applicable to the proposed project. Best Management
Practices will be utilized to reduce any impacts to the site. The existing sedimentation basin
outside the wetland will continue to be utilized. The drainage swales will direct stormwater
3

runoff to the existing sedimentation basin, thereby reducing erosion into coastal waters. The
existing drainage pattersn are being maintained and the stormwater drainage velocity is being
reduced via the use of erosion control measures.
The WAC believes that the proposed development will not have any potentially significant
adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards. Because
there are no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider
alternative actions or mitigation measures.
It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

4

