VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2021
Present: Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
John Ghegan
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order
Chairman Luntz called the meeting to order at 8:00 p.m. The Planning Board then left the room
for an Advice of Counsel meeting with Village Attorney Whitehead. At 8:30 p.m. the Planning
Board returned to the public meeting room; Chairman Luntz apologized for the delay and the
meeting resumed.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a. Moore -- 6 Loconto Street (Sec. 68.17 Block 3 Lot 31) --Application for final
subdivision approval for two-lot subdivision creating one new building lot.
Mr. Ralph Mastromonaco, P.E., engineer for the applicant, stated that the survey of the
property had been completed, and it showed that the stone wall was almost 99% on the
neighbor’s property.
Ms. Anne-Marie Reynolds, 174 Maple Street (neighbor), was present at the meeting and stated
that she and her husband would be happy to sign an agreement to commit to doing any repairs
on the small portion of the stone wall that was not on their property.
There was a discussion about whether to have a condition in the resolution about not disturbing
the stone wall, and the Planning Board concluded that this issue should be a site plan condition
when an applicant returns to the Planning Board for site plan approval. The Planning Board
agreed that the maintenance agreement would also be addressed during the site plan approval
process. The Village Engineer noted that a building permit cannot be issued until there is site
plan approval.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the final subdivision resolution, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Krisky, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.

3. NEW BUSINESS
a. Rossoff, Fred-- 80 Morningside Drive (Sec. 79.09 Block 6 Lot 5) --Application for
approval of an existing accessory apartment due to change in ownership.
There was no one to represent this application at the meeting, and Chairman Luntz adjourned
this application to the next Planning Board meeting.
b. HELPSY (Thrift Land Acquisition) --425 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 79.13
Block 2 Lot 66)--Application for amended site plan approval for clothing donation
bins on commercial parking lot.
Mr. Dan Green, owner of HELPSY, explained that HELPSY is a B-corporation whose mission is
to keep clothes out of trash and create living wage jobs. He stated that the Croton is one of the
organization’s busiest locations, and in the last six months, they have collected approximately
160,000 pounds of clothing.
He stated that he had submitted an application for amended site plan approval because the
Engineering Department had ordered them to remove the bins because they do not have proper
site plan approval for the clothing bins.
Mr. Green explained that they pay the landlord for the use of the location. He acknowledged
that there had been some bin issues due to prior storms which had led to complaints. He agreed
that there are inappropriate items and litter sometimes left on the ground near the bins. The
company schedules a daily pickup of items in the bins but during the recent hurricanes, the
drivers could not finish their routes.
The Planning Board asked about whether there was a possibility of moving the bins farther back
on the parking lot in order to reduce the visual impact of the bins. Mr. Green stated he was
happy to install a fence but expressed concern that a fence would reduce visibility to people
driving by. When asked about improved signage, Mr. Green stated that he would be happy to do
that.
Chairman Luntz stated that although this was not a public hearing, the Planning Board
traditionally entertains comments from the public.
Mr. Jim Picciano, owner of Straddles Gymnastics and tenant at 425 South Riverside Avenue,
distributed photos of the site to the Planning Board. He pointed out the debris and overflow of
items from the bins, and noted how unsightly these bins appear. He stated that people are
dropping off inappropriate items such as tires and furniture.
Mr. Picciiano stated that his main concern is for the safety of the children and parents who are
trying to navigate the traffic flow in the parking lot to get to Straddles. He pointed out that there
is traffic not only from the trucks going to the automotive repair shop but from the HELPSY
2

trucks who collect the clothing. He stated that the trucks stop in the middle of the thoroughfare.
He reiterated that this location was inappropriate and created unsafe conditions for the children
attending Straddles.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing on November 9, 2021, seconded
by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approved the minutes of October 12, 2021, seconded by Mr.
Haynes, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.:
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:18 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

