Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee
September 28, 2021
Video Conference
MINUTES
***ZOOM DETAILS***
to be sent in separate email!!

Diversity & Inclusion page on Village website: https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversityand-inclusion-committee
MEMBERS:
Temporary Co-Chair: Maria Modica-Snow
Tsui Pappas
Lisa Stefanoff
Michael Mui

Jessica Ganus
Amy Melman
Justin Johnson

VILLAGE TRUSTEES:
Sherry Horowitz

1.
a.
b.
c.

Introduction and Opening Business (5min)
Health and Welfare check of members
Introduction of Guests, if any
Leadership Transition
-Leo has resigned & Maria has agreed to serve through the end of this year. Discussion
is needed as to the future of the Committee - how to continue it and whether it should
be continued. Discussion will take place under Old Business.
d. Approval of minutes of April 2021 and June 2021 – unanimously approved.
2. Administration (5-10 min)
a. Recognition of Sept 15-Oct 15 as National Hispanic-Latino Heritage Month and October
as National Italian-American Heritage Month and National Disability Employment
Awareness Month.
b. Committee Membership: Required Training – every one needs to take the classes
annually, and everyone should have received an emai from Paula DiSanto about live
classes on Oct. 13 or on-line. Word is that it is easier in person than taking the course
on-line.
c. Review of received email communications (Lisa) None to report.

3. Committee Reports
a. Discussion Group (Lisa, Maria 5min) Next Discussion Group is Oct 27 th and it will be
about Italian-Americans, Christopher Columbus and the history of Columbus Day.
b. Housing (Jessica 5min) Emergency Rental Assistance Program (ERAP) is 16 pg
application, very difficult for most people to fill out on their own. Her office (Peekskill
Section 8) stays open late every Tue & Th to assist tenants in applying; they send a
check list for info needed, and will assist anyone, even those not living in Peekskill. If
you know anyone who needs rental assistance or is a landlord, they can call 914 7344216 or on line CityofPeekskill.com (look under Departments, Section 8) to make an
appointment. The tenant does NOT have to be a Section 8 participant and immigration
status is not required as part of the application. We discussed how we could help and
spread the word to reach out to Crotonites who might be in that situation. Sherry will
approach the village board to make sure we can post resources on our webpage and
spread flyers, send the flyers to our Discussion Group email list, etc. ERAP is a NYS
program, and different agencies throughout the County are assisting in filling out the
applications.
4. Old Business (10-15 min)
a. Committee members’ bios for webpage: no status report
b. Call for members (see 5a); future of committee/sub-committees (see 5d)
c. Lorraine Hansberry initiative: We will host/sponsor an organizational meeting
for any community member who is interested in working on this. The meeting will
tentatively be held Oct 28, 2021, via zoom from 730-8:30PM. We will first email those
people who have expressed an interest since Feb 2021 to make sure this date will work
for them. Once a final date is chosen, we will ask the Village to send out an e-blast and
publicize it.
d. Discussion continued on how to get new members, and a consensus was reached
that perhaps we need to take the initiative for a program, like the Lorraine Hansberry
project, and allow non-members to work with at least one member (or alternating
members) as a Task Force/ad hoc committee/Project Team, etc. In that way not only
will we get some of our ideas completed, but we will have a presence and attract
members/co-workers. There are likely many people who will be interested in
something, but may not want the responsibility of being member, ie meetings, required
classes, etc.
e. Regarding the future of the committee, Lisa and Maria have committed to
continuing in their roles until the end of the year. After that, hopefully there will be
someone in leadership and IT, and it was suggested that the Discussion Group take
place every other month and the same with D&I meetings, or they can be held as
needed when a sub-committee has a report to make.

f. Social note: Jessica suggested that we meet in person at Senasqua Park, possibly
sometime on Sunday Oct 17. We decided on Sunday Oct 17th at noon at Senasqua
Park, rain or shine. Bring whatever you like-your family, your lunch, a snack, whatever.
5. New Business - held off until next meeting.
a. Jessica Ganus-flyers in store windows, push for membership.
b. anyone have contacts with HS to get some HS members, even just as liaison
between us and HS; other ideas?
c. New initiatives-Sherry Horowitz, “Let’s Break Bread Together”
d. past suggestions: Diversity Fair; Diversity Crawl, diverse businesses/owners; 4
major events a year; D&I Book Club; research history of different cultures in Croton,
history of Asians, was there a community of Black families before the highway was built
and if so, what happened to those families; flags for Veterans, how about for other
notable people who have/had ties to Croton?
e. Tsui’s suggestion that most of the “Groups, Liaisons and Other Roles” be
eliminated as they were created to bring structure, but with such a small group, the
goals are not achievable. (Discuss during meeting or hopefully one or 2 members will
offer to review them and make recommendations of what to keep, eliminate, modify or
add.)

GROUPS, LIAISONS, AND OTHER ROLES


Discussion Group: Maria, Lisa, Sherry, Michael
Mission/Purpose: To engage the community in expansive discussions on matters of anti-racism
and other forms of bias, inequality, and injustices.



School Liaisons Group: Michael, Maria, Sherry
Mission/Purpose: To ensure connectedness of ideas, attitudes, and actions between the school
bodies and the D&I Committee



Book Recommendations Group: Amy, Tsui, Justin,
Mission/Purpose: To provide thoughtful and provocative reading materials in connection with
promoting diversity, equity and inclusion – often in relation to the celebration of the month



Supervision/Strategy: Leo, Maria
Mission/Purpose:



Communications/Public Relations: Lisa, Sherry (?), other?

Mission/Purpose: To invite participation and promote D&I activities including Discussion
groups, Letters to the Editor, other PR, flyers, email lists, etc.


Charities and Non-Profits Liaison: Tsui
Mission/Purpose:



Website Liaison: Lisa Stefanoff
Mission/Purpose: Single point of contact for Bryan Healy relating to website updates- including
book lists, discussion group materials, statements, etc.



Police Reform Liaison: Michael Mui
Mission/Purpose:



New Member Recruitment and Onboarding: Maria;
Mission/Purpose:



Member Training and Education: Michael, Jessica
Mission/Purpose:
Housing: Jessica
Mission/Purpose



Houses of Faith Liaison: Justin
Mission/Purpose:

