APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 31st, 2021

Roll Call: P. Dinkler (150), J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), A. Roosa Jr. (256), J. Streany
(275), B. Powers (474), D. Vlad (318), R. Cusano (141), W. Skiba (267), K. Goldstein (576), G.
Tucci (284)
EXCUSED: None
Department Members: J. Ghegan (183), F. Streany (274), D. Kempter (484), J. Delaney
(350), W. Cerrato (128)
Others in Attendance: Mayor Brian Pugh, Village Manager Bryan Healy, Trustee Len Simon
Meeting Called to Order by: J. Munson with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of
Silence for Deceased Members at 20:00.
Special Orders of Business: Manager Healy thanked department for all that it does, looks
forward to working with us. Mayor Pugh thanked the membership for the dedication and
service to Croton.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes: Not done.
Bills and Communications:
•

•
•
•

•
•
•

Letter from Fire Patrol reporting John Duffy has gone from Active to Social status.
Questions from J. Munson if all department property has been returned, Fire Patrol
Wardens answered yes. Motion A. Roosa Jr./2nd J. Karpoff to approve – CARRIED.
Application for Active Membership in Fire Patrol received from Nora Regis. Motion J.
Karpoff/2nd A. Roosa Jr. to approve pending favorable background check – CARRIED.
Application for Active Membership in Fire Patrol received from Dan Andreescu. Motion J.
Karpoff/2nd A. Roosa Jr. to approve pending favorable background check – CARRIED.
Letter received from Fire Patrol nominating Josh KArpoff for the position of 1st Assistant
Chief in the December 2021 elections. Motion A. Roosa Jr./2nd G. Tucci to send to
Investigation Committee – CARRIED.
Invoice received from Municipal Marketing for $81.34 outstanding balance. Motion J.
Streany/2nd D. Vlad to pay – CARRIED.
P. Dinkler took over meeting at 20:11.
Letter received from Chemical Engine stating a dozen members have resigned or are
requesting to go Social, and that C. Sarcone is acting Captain, M. Mansfield acting
President and Warden and T. Dinkler acting Engineer. A discussion followed, the Chiefs
will discuss with the company and village related to ongoing issues and concerns.

Reports of the Chiefs
P. Dinkler (2081)

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 31st, 2021

•

•

All equipment was moved from old E118 to the new E118 today with anticipation it
would pass pump test and go into service, however it failed it’s test. Dealer to be
contacted to arrange repairs ASAP.
Due to mold issues at the Croton EMS house, CEMS will have to occupy the “Ready
Room” area of Harmon Firehouse starting soon for an unknown amount of time. A
discussion followed with members and Village Admin in attendance.

J. Munson (2082)
•
•
•
•
•
•

Thanks to everyone for their continued support and commitment to the department.
Thank you to those that helped with annual rig/equipment testing, especially Frank
Streany.
Apparatus repairs needed for new E118, a leak has been found in E119’s pump. M12
requires two new motors, so we are looking into options. New Car is on order.
Live Fire Training in New Haven set for Sunday 10/10/2021.
Inspection is Sunday 9/12, need members to RSVP so we can arrange caterers.
J. Streany questioned if we can do a joint venture with Croton PD for a boat, discussion
followed.

J. Karpoff (2083)
Thanks to the members for answering calls.
Working with MNRR to resolve issues with their alarm systems.
New sign-up procedure in place for all NYS training, local (county) courses using old system
still. Members must set up their log-ins.
Awaiting engineering report of E118’s bay floor so we can work with village to make needed
repairs.
IT project underway which will replace wifi hotspots, tablets, firehouse PCs and more.
Working on new phone systems at all firehouse, will do WECO first as it is smaller and we can
work out issues before doing larger buildings.
Reminded all to email his CFD email for all CFD related issues.
R. Cusano reports elevator at Grand Street Firehouse is inoperable, again. Also reports a
number of lights out around the firehouse.
J. Streany reports he is working with village’s sustainability committee on WECO upgrades.
Reports of Committees
BY-LAWS Proposal from Harmon Engine to modify article 4.3 of By-Laws (attached). Motion B.
Powers/2nd W. Skiba to send to By-Law committee. J. Streany reports changes to out-of-town
Chief proposal is almost ready and should be available at next Council meeting.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 31st, 2021

BIG BUCKS Tickets have not been ordered yet. Motion J. Karpoff/2nd J. Munson to cancel Big
Bucks raffle and to have companies vote whether to host a Holiday Raffle instead at the
suggestion of D. Vlad – CARRIED.
FIRE PREVENTION – J. Karpoff asked if doing Fire Fair with uptick of COVID cases is feasible.
Motion J. Munson/2nd A. Roosa Jr. to cancel Fire Fair this year – CARRIED. J. Streany requests
public information to be shared for Fire Prevention Week via Social Media, local newspaper, etc.
Unfinished Business:
1. B. Powers asked about bailout recertification. J. Munson stated the law has not
changed, and the department’s way of recertifying members is not changing this year,
but options being explored for future.
2. B. Powers stated Harmon Engine has not seen a Chief since their 3/18/21 company
meeting. J. Munson stated he apologizes but also doesn’t see the point since most
meetings of the companies are short and rarely ever have any questions for the chiefs
not answerable at Council or by email/text/phone calls.
3. B. Powers asked why nobody has done fire reports all year. P. Dinkler reports J.
Munson quit this position and we are looking for anyone interested to take it over. A
discussion followed. Motion J. Streany/2nd D. Vlad for Council to help pay someone to
do this task if needed – CARRIED.
4. Question from K. Russell-Goldstein as to whom is seeking out a new fire reporting
system since ours is becoming obsolete. P. Dinkler reports it is the 3 Chiefs, F. Streany
and T. Dinkler. Motion J. Munson/2nd A. Roosa Jr. that Chiefs have a choice made by
next Council meeting – CARRIED.
5. J. Munson asked status of By-Law proposal from Chemical Engine related to out-of-town
Chiefs and why the delay. J. Streany reports committee met last night and is working
out some details as it affects other parts of the By-Laws.
6. R. Cusano asked what happened to the village giving some incentives to our
membership such as park passes/free parking. Mayor/Manager will look into it.
New Business:
1. J. Streany asked what is going on with new E118 and how this has become such an
issue. Discussion followed indicating ongoing concerns with village-required consultant,
lack of communication from committee to chiefs and lack of communication of Chief with
Council. Motion J.Streany/2nd R. Cusano for the Chiefs to be the sole parties responsible
for the apparatus issues and for interaction with village and vendor – CARRIED.
2. J. Munson would like help of interested members in forming a recruitment committee
and potentially hosting an open house recruitment night.
3. P. Dinkler reports fireworks scheduled on 9/4/21 at Hudson National Golf Course –
members needed for standby detail.
4. P. Dinkler reports WCVFA Convention parade in Ossining on 9/18/21 – all members
encouraged to attend.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 31st, 2021

5. Inspection will be held on 9/12/2021 per P. Dinkler.
6. Fireworks at Boy Scouts event scheduled for October per P. Dinkler.
7. FD assistance will be needed for annual Harry Chapin Run on 10/17/21 per P. Dinkler.
8. Rotary Club Car Show on 9/26/21 – for any apparatus interested per P. Dinkler.
9. 9/11 ceremony on 9/11/21 at Croton Landing per P. Dinkler.
Treasurer’s Report:
$87,294.02 in account.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad/2nd J. Streany – CARRIED.

Meeting Adjourned at 22:23.
Minutes Respectfully Submitted By John Munson, Council Secretary on 9/12/21.

