MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Nov 21, 2021 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
BernieYozwiak
Niall Kelleher
Dan Columbini
Jon Katz
Brian Pugh

Absent:
Joel Gingold (on family trip)

[Bracketed] text mean subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a
commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: None
Reminder: All members must take online PERMA classes on “RISE Up Against
Workplace Bullying” (HV 16) and “Harassment Prevention for NY Employees” (HV 20).
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants
On 10/29, the second $5K check was received by the Village. The first came 9/21/21.
On 11/4, NYSERDA accepted our application for the ASHP controls job. Jon and
Lindsay attended the 11/12 kickoff meeting with its project manager (Gwyneth Widrick)
and others from NYSERDA and HVRC. Next steps involve the contract to be signed
between Croton and NYSERDA to nail down details for the grant. Based on NYSERDA
comments, such should occur by the end of this year or early January 2022.
The same has not yet occurred for the solar rooftop job, though (based on a recent call
from NYSERDA) we expect it to occur soon. Once completed, we can start actual work,
e.g., RFP for the solar job, refreshing solar and ASHP vendor proposals, etc. Payments
to Croton for 25% of each grant will be paid after we provide each contractor’s bid.
On 11/18, NYSERDA issued the long-awaited revised Guidance Document for the CEC
program. As per our request/complaint, the Stretch Code option has been extended 6
months (to 7/31/22), giving us breathing room to approach the Village to adopt it. Doing
so would get us another $5K grant and 1,200 CEC points, tying us with the largest CEC
point leader (Hastings). Jon and Len agreed to work together on getting it adopted.
Lindsay will send them both the NYSERDA docs needed for that process.
We presently participate in two Community Campaigns in the CEC program:
GridRewards and Community Solar 2.0. Each got us 200 CEC points and $5K grants.
Revisions to two others (“Clean Heating and Cooling [CH&C] and Energy Efficiency”,
and “Electric Vehicles [EV]”) now make them both easier and more lucrative. Success
1

with CH&C would get us 500 CEC points and a $5K grant. Success with EV would get
us 200 CEC points and another $5K grant. Each is now easier because the minimum
number of participants (each of whom would need to actually buy a heat pump or EV)
was reduced to 5 from the prior 10.
Each campaign would need to include the usual promotional efforts (e.g., zooms,
events, flyers, LtEs, eblasts). The purchases would be assumed to be related to those
efforts if they occurred after filing appropriate Scoping Docs with NYSERDA. No causal
proof is needed. We discussed various ways to learn who had bought what and when,
e.g., ad in the Gazette, LtEs, contacts with vendors, etc. Lindsay will draft the docs and
a plan for review at our next meeting.
Unlike the speed of our first two campaigns (each done in weeks) the new campaigns
may stretch across 2022 to find and log the needed purchases. Depending on the
rollout of Pres. Biden’s climate incentive programs, such purchases (especially EVs)
may be accelerated.
- Other grant-supported projects
After the holidays, Lindsay will set up a walk-through with Dan and the DPW so we can
start the design work for a HPWH in the Municipal Bldg. First steps involve siting and
installation of water and electric meters on its existing electric resistance DHW heater.
- Other Solar Projects
On the SolSystems’ train station canopies, Sol and Village staff continue to work on an
acceptable water management system. Several ways to cut the cost are under review,
e.g., eliminating water management at a few canopies at the far south end of the
parking lot. The Village Manager made it clear that the Village will not absorb all of Sol’s
proposed costs, which could cut the annual lease value by $75K or more.
On the Croton Landing Park canopy, efforts continue to overcome the present “park
alienation” problem. Several developers have offered to provide comments on how it is
blocking solar growth in the State. Various amendments to A.6838 are being drafted to
accommodate concerns expressed by an Assembly member and others. Joel and
Lindsay will continue to seek passage of the bill in the 2022 session.
Pursuant to seeking leverage to assist passage of A.6838, Len reported on his research
concerning restrictions on the use of parks in NJ and CT to compare them to those in
NY. Bottom line: their rules are also restrictive on use of park land. He agreed to look
further into how a distinction could be made between parking lots and park land.
At present, NYPA’s Clean Energy Solutions group is managing 23 solar projects for
Westchester municipalities. We agreed to ask NYPA to provide either a letter indicating
that “alienation” is a block to proceeding with Croton Landing canopies, or else that
NYPA would be willing to handle that site’s alienation exemption process for us.
2

- EV/EVSE
Nothing new was reported on the local EV school bus venture. Further details may be
learned at the Dec. 21 meeting of the school district’s Environmental Sustainability
Committee (which Lindsay will attend).
On 11/30/21, Frank Balbi, Dan O’Connor, and Lindsay are scheduled to scope out the
location of the ten dual-port EV chargers at the train station. Conduits for their power will
then be designed into SolSystems’ power wiring layout. There may be existing spare
conduits under the blacktop from prior work at the station.
[On 11/22, Gov. Hochul’s office announced procedures for utilities to support installation
of 50,000 new public EV chargers across the State via the EV Make Ready program.
There are presently 4,571 public chargers in NY. Utilities will now cover the costs of
infrastructure to bring power to the new charger sites. Incentives for the actual chargers
are under another program. Lindsay will raise the option to SolSystems for getting a
grant to cover costs to feed power to chargers being planned for the train station.]
- Food Scrap Recycling Program
Lindsay updated possible use of Marcus DaSilva (Ossining’s manager for its food scrap
recycling program) to run our stalled 6-month pilot program. Marcus has provided his job
description and detailed how Ossining’s program is managed. He is developing a
proposal to do the same for our program, to be funded by our $11K DEC grant.
While a drop-off site had been considered at Lot A at the train station, Brian reported that
space may be sold in the near future. Others suggested the parking lot at Silver Lake
Park. It is presently used by the Village as a depository for wood chips from pruned and
removed trees. One of Croton’s Community Gardens is next to it, making it a site familiar
to many who may wish to participate in food scrap recycling. Lindsay will review its
viability with the DPW and (if OK) include in DaSilva’s proposal.
- Reports

We discussed who had gotten GridRewards and how much. Two members got ~$19, but
others were told they were not sufficiently successful at controlling their electrical
demand to get any payments. All should, however, eventually get their signup bonuses,
which will be between $100 and $200.
Community Solar 2.0 is still pending start of consolidated billing by the end of this year.
- Communications/Public Relations
Adlin Hadad is prepping news releases but was delayed due to a death in her family.
- Recruitment/Outreach

3

Hearing of growing concerns by youths over climate change, Joel recently contacted
several youth-based climate action groups/leaders to see if they would work with us.
None responded. His efforts with a local psychologist working with kids concerned about
climate change also failed to produce any useful results. Joel’s memo on the matter was
distributed to committee members.
Our interns secured contact data for Croton residents that recently attended local zooms
related to climate change. While some might have been considered as possible
Committee members or associates, none returned emails or phone calls to them.
Via Teatown’s Environmental Leaders Learning Alliance (ELLA), Lindsay presented on
Nov. 9 and 16 his “Mechanics of Local Carbon Reduction” show to climate activists in the
County.
- New business / other issues
Jon described an Urban Green webinar that updated status on two developing
renewable power sources (called “Tier 4”) for the NYC area: the Champlain Express
(CHPE) powerline from Quebec and the Clean Path powerline and solar/wind sources to
originate from Delaware County in central NY. The webinar is available at:
https://www.urbangreencouncil.org/content/events/new-green-power-nyc-conversationtier-4-winners
Presenters at the event stated that CHPE is presently set to come on line in Q4 2025
while Clean Path expects to start delivering its power in 2027.
Bernie told us of a new local environmental group, the Westchester Alliance for
Sustainable Solutions (WASS) at https://wasspeekskill.org/ Its present focus is on
retiring the Charles Point Waste-To-Energy (WTE) incinerator that handles most of our
County’s solid waste. Courtney Williams is spearheading the effort. WASS has a
recurring meeting accessible on Sundays at 7:30 PM at:
https://us06web.zoom.us/j/81171688427?pwd=bUJxeXlqTVEwN295SFVER0xSdXcyQT09

Meeting ID: 811 7168 8427
Passcode: green914
We briefly discussed the status of the proposed ground-mounted 1.8 kWp solar project at
the National Golf Course. Len detailed some of the outstanding issues. Brian indicated
that Village proceedings and data gathering continue regarding it.
Len agreed to monitor the status of climate incentives in the two Biden bills to ensure we
know how to access them. He detailed his efforts in 2009 with prior federal block grants
for energy efficiency programs accessible to small municipalities.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, December 19 at 10:30 AM via zoom.
4

