VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, November 9th, 2021
Present: Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
John Ghegan
Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. Call to order
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of November 9th to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. Public Hearing
Helpsy (Thrift Land Acquisition) 425 S. Riverside Ave. (Sec. 79.13 Block 2 Lot 66). Application
for amended site plan approval for clothing donation bins on a commercial property parking lot.
Shonda Hunter was present to represent HELPSY. She wants the bins placed back where they
were on 425 S. Riverside Ave. Ms. Hunter is committed to do whatever has to be done to
satisfy the Village Board. Ms. Hunter stated that HELPSY would commit to two daily pickups of
donated items in response to complaints of overflowing bins. When presented with pictures of
overflowing bins, Ms. Hunter said she was embarrassed by the unsightliness of both the
overflow of clothing and inappropriate, large items being dumped. Ms. Hunter offered to
address the problem by having newer bins with cameras and attempting to prosecute people
who violated conditions listed on new signage. Ms. Hunter stated that the property owner was
in favor of the bins being put back.
The Planning Board had questions regarding what happens to the clothes after they were
dropped off. The Board was satisfied with the answer that some clothes were sold and some
were recycled. Mr. Kauderer spoke of being moved by a letter read from the owner of Straddles
Gymnastics, who expressed concerns regarding the safety of the children attending his
program. The owner of Straddles believes that the increased traffic caused by people driving in
to drop-off donations presents a safety hazard. The Planning Board believes that the bins may
be better placed in another location, especially considering that there is an auto body shop also
on sharing the same driveway that was not there when the bins were originally installed.
The Board Members suggested that HELPSY look to other sites in town that may be more
suitable for their bins. A question was raised as to whether the Board could grant approval for
one year to determine if HELPSY could better maintain the bins. The Village Engineer was to

check with the Village Attorney to see if this was an option. There were enough concerns to
determine that a conversation with the Village Attorney was required. Chairman Luntz opened
the hearing to public comments but none were raised. The Public Hearing remains open and
HELPSY will be back on the agenda on November 23, 2021.
3. OLD BUSINESS
a. Rossoff, Fred-- 80 Morningside Drive (Sec. 79.09 Block 6 Lot 5) --Application for
approval of an existing accessory apartment due to change in ownership.
Mr. Rossoff and his wife just bought the home in September. Mr. Rossoff said that nothing has
changed in the accessory apartment. His in-laws live in the apartment part time. The entrance
to the apartment is through the driveway in the back of the house
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Existing Accessory Apartment, seconded by
Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5-0.
b. MAF Realty (Mark Franzoso) 74 Grand St. (Section 78.8 Block 6 Lot 59) -request
for extension of approved Minor Site Plan
Mark Franzoso was present. Mr. Franzoso says that he absolutely plans to move forward with
building on the lot. He was asked about the timeframe and he stated that he hopes to begin the
project in the middle to the end of 2022.

MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the extension of approved Minor Site Plan,
seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5-0.
c. MAF Realty (Mark Franzoso) 78 Grand St. (Section 78.8 Block 6 Lot 56) –
request for extension for approved Minor Site Plan
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the extension of approved Minor Site Plan,
seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
d. Franzoso, Mark 23 Nordica Drive (Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot 64) – Minor Site
Plan Application for construction of a new Single-Family House
Mark Franzoso and Dan Ciarcia, engineer, were present in support of this application. There
was a discussion as to whether or not a steep slope application was necessary. Mr. Ciarcia is
requesting to not have a public hearing regarding the steep slope. The Board discussed the
overall disturbance which is necessary to develop the lot. Mr. Krisky asked if building the
retaining wall could potentially impact the house behind it on Piney Point Ave and it was
determined that it would not. Chairman Luntz questioned quite a few trees and if they should be
mapped. As per Dan O’Connor, the trees need to be shown on site plans. There was
2

discussion as to whether or not there should be a public hearing. It was noted that neighbors
were upset about the project on Piney Point Ave. Stating that neighbors should have a voice,
Mr. Kauderer and Mr. Krisky believe that there should be a public hearing. Mr. Ciarcia stated
that the public had an opportunity to speak about the project a year ago and Mr. Franzoso
expressed concern that the public would be hard on him on social media. Mr. Haynes was also
in favor letting the public have their say. Mr. Franzoso understood but did not want to take
verbal abuse. Chairman Luntz asked to have the trees mapped out and marked if trees are
proposed to be removed. In response to Mr. Haynes’ question, it was stated that there is not an
accessory apartment.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion for a Public Hearing for Steep Slope Permit, seconded
by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5-0.
e. Croton Riverside LLC – 25 S Riverside Ave (Section 78.8 Block 5 Lots 42, 43,
59, and 60) – Application for Final Subdivision Approval for consolidation of four
existing lots into one lot for a proposed three-story building consisting of 39
apartments
The Village Board approved a site plan for multifamily building and consolidation of the four
parcels into one property, which is also a requirement of the Westchester County Health
Department for one sewer line. Mr. O’Connor recommends that the Board approves this
application as it meets all requirements. Once they come up with a Tax ID# for the one parcel,
the other three will be abolished. This is a procedural item to provide final subdivision map.
The Village Board approved two sets of plans, which the Health Department also wanted to
see. Mr. O’Connor does not have a construction schedule. The developers now need
financing and building approval. The Department of Transportation questioned a Handicap
Ramp that needs to be redesigned and Mr. O’Connor will review.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion for Final Subdivision Approval, seconded by Mr.
Ghegan, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.
4. NEW BUSINESS
a. Benjamin, Samantha (The Dessertist, tenant) 4 Croton Point Avenue (Section
79.17 Block 1 Lot 6) Request for Change of Use to Wholesale Bakery Use\
The applicant is doing some interior alterations. A plumbing permit was issued for sinks and the
fire inspector is working on where to put exhaust. There is no change to the site, no sign and
there will be no retail use in the space.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to Approve Change of Use to Wholesale Bakery Use,
seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5-0.

5. REFERRALS
3

a. Matra Group LLC 1380 Albany Post Road (Section 67.10 Block 2 Lots 14&15)
Referral from Village Board for review and recommendation on an amendment to the
North End Gateway District Zoning Code and issuance of a special permit for a
proposed mixed-use building and response to Village Board of Trustees intent to be
Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes.

Attorney Kory Salomone was present on behalf of Matra Group. Also present are Anthony
Matra and Engineer Ralph Alfonzett.
Currently, the Subject Property is located in the Limited Office (“O-1) zoning district and is
located in the North End Gateway District along with six other parcels. In order to
accommodate the proposed mixed-use building, the petition requests certain amendments to
Village of Croton zoning code which would 1) establish mixed use buildings as a special permit
use in the North End Gateway District (NEGD), 2) permit retail stores and banks, personal
service establishments, business and professional offices, showrooms and residential to be
included in a mixed-use building and 3) establish bulk and area regulations for the NEGD. It is
actually two parcels, the first is Tax Map ID# 67.10-2-15 which is known as 1380 Albany Post
Road and is 1.1 acres. The second is Tax Map ID# 67.10-2-14 and is 0.5 acres. There are
three gateway districts in town and the other two already have zoning regulations in place. The
subject property is currently improved with an approximately 2,600 square foot structure, which
houses Estate Cabinetry and associated parking. The improvements are located on the
northern side of the subject property, while the southern portion is vacant land.
They want to demo the existing structure and replace it with an approximately 33,400 squarefoot mixed use building. Elevations and floor plans were prepared by DeMasi Architects and
were presented.
Clarification was requested that the applicants were asking to amend the zoning code. There is
a mandatory referral to the Planning Board to review and make recommendations back to the
Board of Trustees before they can act on the zoning change. It is also for a special permit for
the mixed-use building and response to Village Board of Trustees intent to be lead agency for
SWQRA purposes.
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the Village Board of Trustees intent to be
lead agency for SEQRA purposes which was seconded by Mr. Haynes and the motion carried,
by a vote of 5-0.
In response to the Zoning Change, the Planning Board asked for clarification on the parking
area, specifically how far the parking was from the entrance to the building. Mr. Salomone
showed visual clarification on the overhead screen.
Questions were raised about the wording on the zoning changes and the applicant stated that
they tried to be consistent with previous amendments and what is consistent in the Village. It
4

was noted that the Village Attorney had a copy of the proposal.
Mr. Haynes noted that in the proposal, the apartments could be studios, 1 bedroom, or twobedroom units only. In the Municipal Gateway, there are three-bedroom units. There was also
a discussion, raised by Mr. Haynes as to the maximum floor area ratio (FAR). The applicant
was requesting 0.8. The 0.8 aligns with the South Riverside Gateway, but not the Municipal
Gateway which is 0.5.
Affordable housing was discussed. Village Code 23—48 states that 10% of the residential units
should be set aside as affordable housing. It was noted that if there was a building with less
than 10 units, you would still have to have on affordable unit. Mr. Kauderer noted that this rule
was not consistent throughout the village. Mr. Kauderer asked why this building would not be
considered for all residential purposes. Mr. Salomone stated that this was something to
consider. Mr. Matra stated that his companies were committed to taking half of the first-floor
retail space for Matra Building Corporation and Estate Cabintry, which would be approximately
6,000 square feet. It was also noted that all residential is a possibility in this Overlay District. Or
a mixed use. The Board was in agreement with 0.8 on FAR. It was confirmed that the subject
property is not in the Croton Harmon School District. A question was raised if the applicant
would want to have the option of a three-bedroom unit. Mr. Alfonzett said that they could
change the unit count, but the bedroom count would have to stay the same. There are 32
bedrooms in the proposal. The septic system and FAR limit the number of bedrooms.
At present time, there are a total of 73 parking spaces included in the plans where they are
required to have 70. There are two handicapped parking spaces.
There was a question as to whether the word “Showroom” is defined in the zoning regulations.
The Planning Board reviewed Chapter 230, Zoning Article XVI Amendments and Interpretation
from the Village Code.
The Planning Board went through questions as to whether there was fire and police protection
and it was determined that yes, there was. There is a water main across the street, hydrants
are available and the building is sprinklered.
Compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in
conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties was addressed. Elevations
were shown, both three stories. Two options were proposed, language in proposal says
maximum height is 35 feet, three stories, provided that the third story is constructed through roof
line in the building. It was suggested that the line stating “within the roof line” should be
removed.
It was noted that the subject property is on a main artery and will generate more traffic. There is
not much pedestrian traffic in the area, but people may want to walk to the supermarket.
There will be a landscape plan in the future when they do a site review.
5

The septic system will handle 4,500 gallons of waste per day. The tank will be pumped out
once per year.
Mr. Kauderer questioned if there will be a substantial increase in traffic. The Board felt that the
answer to this was no. There is significant traffic there already. Mr. Kauderer stated that in
terms of hours of operation, the residential units will be open 24 hours.
The project site is within five miles of Croton Point Park, George’s Island, the Hudson River,
Brinton Brook Sanctuary and Gouveia Park.
The Planning Board will forward their comments on the zoning changes to the Village Board
with the recommendation that the Village Board proceeds with the rezoning. The Planning
Board also forwards their comments on the special permit to the Village Board.
6. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
MOTION: Mr. Kauderer made a motion to approve the Minutes which was seconded by Mr.
Haynes and the motion carried, by a vote of 5-0.
7. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
11:10 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

6

