Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
November 23, 2021
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Bruce Kauderer
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of November 23rd, 2021 to order at 8:00
p.m.
2. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
a) Franzoso, Mark 23 Nordica Drive (Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot 64) Minor Site Application
for Construction of New Home
MOTION: Mr. Luntz made a motion to open the Public Hearing and Mr. Kauderer seconded the
motion.
PRESENT: Mr. Dan Ciarcia of Ciarcia Engineering was present in support of the application.
Several neighbors from Nordica Drive were present to voice concerns on record.
Mr. Ciarcia spoke first and noted that the Zoning Board granted a variance last year to allow
building in this spot. He asked for site plan and steep slope approval. Mr. Ciarcia stated that a
tree survey was done and on new plans, the house is moved over 10 feet, 23 feet off of the
property line of the nearest neighbor. The Planning Board noted that the landscape plan is not
complete. Mr. Haynes asked the applicant to be more specific regarding the trees. Mr. Krisky
reiterated that the applicant might want to consider consulting a professional landscape
architect and present a plan vs the Planning Board making recommendations as to how many
and what type of trees should be planted. Mr. O’Connor said that the landscape plan should be
submitted before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
The meeting was now open to public comments. The first to speak was Joseph Freeman of 20
Nordica Dr. Mr. Freeman stated that the activity at the property to date has been a nightmare.
He believes that 17 trees disappeared in the middle of the night. He reported that neighbor’s
cars were blocked in due to not being made aware of street paving. He accused the applicant
of violating laws for profit.

Next to speak was Mr. Earl De Pass of 10 Nordica Dr. He was unhappy that he was not given
notice of construction on their street. He expressed frustration that the Mayor and Village
Manager were not given notice of street closures. He complained that the village is ill prepared
to handle the number of projects going on. Mr. De Pass noted that winter is coming which
would bring potential problems with storm drains. Mr. De Pass expressed concerns that
someone could get hurt.
Next to speak was Mr. Tim Robinson of 15 Nordica Dr. who opened his statement by reading a
letter from neighbor Joel Gingold (a copy of this letter is attached to the Planning Board Agenda
for 11/23/21 meeting) and noted that the neighbors echo the sentiments expressed in the letter.
Mr. Robinson complained of mud running down the street from the applicant’s site after rain and
that the applicant should be aware of weather conditions and plan accordingly. Mr. Robinson
also questioned if anyone was keeping track of how much fill and soil is brought onto the
building site and asked if the same amount was to be taken out.
Mr. O’Connor answered that a lot of the fill that is in front of the retaining wall will be brought
out. There is no record of how much fill has been brought in.
Next to speak was Victoria Anderson of 27 Nordica Dr. Ms. Anderson spoke of living next door
to the building site. She states that the project has been going on for many years, possibly back
to 2010 and she asks, “When will it end?” She does not see an endpoint. She had several
questions including, “Why are trees being cut down with no forewarning and no permit?” “Will
the stone dust from the project be bad for her and her children?” “Will the stone dust hurt the
people working there?” “How long will the port a potty that has been there for 3 years continue
to be there?” “Who is using the port a potty?” “Will the slope from above fall onto her house?”
“When it does fall, what will her insurance cover?” She spoke of feeling a sense of fear and
uncertainty. Ms. Anderson felt that she cannot move forward with her own construction as
“What will the neighbors think when her trucks start coming in?” Ms. Anderson questioned how
many more Planning Board meetings will there be with lots of rhetoric and no answers. She is
happy to hear that the house is moved a little away from her property. She asked for
confirmation of the property line and stated that she knew that there would be construction, but
this is more that she expected.
Next to speak was Russ Davies, also of 27 Nordica Dr. He questioned if the proposed building
is in fact a two-family home. He referred to the site plans and stated that the way they are
currently presented, could indicate a two-family home. He stated that if this is not the case, the
plans should be corrected. Mr. Davies stated that the project does not fit in in the area. He
stated that he was assured in previous meetings that the ground would be secured but has
many concerns about the silt fence, and possibility that silt is filtering onto his property and that
the filtration and drainage systems are no longer functional. Mr. Davies also spoke to a pin that
was on a drawing and asked if it was shifted to make it easier to run construction equipment
back and forth between this project and another one on Piney Point Avenue. Mr. Davies also

asked to confirm the property line. Mr. Davies is a trained engineer who spoke of an ethical
code for architects and engineers and stepping up when they see something wrong.
Mr. Luntz expressed sympathy to the neighbors of this project. Mr. Luntz noted that the
Planning Board does not monitor construction but is a volunteer agency that reviews
applications based on land rights with the goal being to make the plans the best they can for the
applicant and neighbors.
Mr. Haynes asked for specific clarification as to whether proposed building was a single-family
home or not and Mr. Ciarcia clarified saying that the proposed new home is a one-family home,
a modular raised ranch. The upper floor is factory constructed. Mr. Ciarcia says that
Westchester Modular gave a plan that is not consistent with what the owner wanted. Mr.
Ciarcia was reminded that this was not the first time this matter was addressed. Today marks
the third time that he was asked to submit the corrected plans, which he said that he would do.
It was reiterated that a full landscape plan is required. Mr. Ciarcia was also asked about a
reasonable end date and if there was one. Mr. Ciarcia did not have a targeted end date, but
stated that since it is a modular home, once the foundation was in place, the house could be
dropped off in one day.
Additional questions were put to the applicant via Mr. Ciarcia. “Would the Piney Point project
have to be complete before this Nordica Drive project could be completed?” “Is the path
between the two properties being used for construction machinery?” Mr. Davies noted that there
was a request for a bond at a previous meeting. Mr. Robinson asked when the existing ramp
will be removed and when the trees would be replaced.
Mr. Haynes asked about utilities and if they were in place on the Nordica Drive project. He also
had questions regarding silt and not wanting it to run off. Mr. Luntz asked if the tree removal
was done illegally and Mr. O’Connor said that it was and violations were issued. Mr. Luntz
wants the record to show that the Planning Board did not allow the removal of the trees in
question.
The Public Hearing remains open and Mr. Ciarcia was asked to present updated plans to
address the issues discussed, including the clarification that it is a single-family property and
updated landscape drawings.
b) HELPSY (Thrift Land Acquisition) 425 S Riverside Ave. (Sec. 79.13 Block 2 Lot 66)
Application for amended site plan approval for clothing donation bins on commercial
property parking lot
PRESENT: Lisa Sciannella from HELPSY is present via Zoom
MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Krisky, and
the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.

Ms. Sciannella started the hearing by responding to the unsightliness of the clothing donation
bins and proposed a plan to have two pickups per day, install security cameras and post new
“No Dumping” signage. The Planning Board asked Ms. Sciannella if HELPSY had looked into
other locations in the Village that might be better for their bins. Ms. Sciannella said that they
believed that the 425 S. Riverside Ave. location would be best location. Mr. Luntz stated that
placing the bins at this location seemed like a mismatch and that the other services offered at
this location made it a bad fit.
Mr. Krisky stated that HELPSY is a noble organization, but there are better places in town for
the bins. Mr. Haynes stated that he appreciates the service that HELPSY provided when they
were here, but the proposed site is oversubscribed and therefore not the right place. Mr.
Kauderer suggested the vacant lot across from Eataly, also on Riverside.
MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and
the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
Mr. Krisky asked if we can have the applicant withdraw the application. Mr. O’Connor
suggested that if the applicant wished to withdraw the application, they should do so in writing.
2. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
It was decided that the approval of the minutes from the November 9th, 2021 Planning Board
Meeting should be held over until the next meeting as there were several corrections.
3. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:05 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

