MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Dec. 19, 2021 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Bernie Yozwiak
Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher
Dan Columbini
Brian Pugh

Absent:
Jon Katz (traveling)

[Bracketed] text mean subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a
commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: None
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants
On 11/29, NYSERDA accepted our two grant applications (for $70K and $20K) to
bankroll the solar rooftop job. Bryan Healy and Lindsay attended the 12/6 kickoff
meeting with NYSERDA’s project manager (Gwenyth Widrick) and Eleanor Peck, our
CEC coordinator with the HVRC. We now move to the contract phase (between Croton
and NYSERDA). Based on comments, such should occur by mid-January 2022.
As detailed in our last meeting, the kickoff meeting for the ASHP controls job occurred
11/2. It too is now in the contracting phase with NYSERDA.
Work (e.g., Scoping Documents to NYSERDA) has started on two new Community
Campaigns in the CEC program: “Clean Heating and Cooling [CH&C] and Energy
Efficiency”, and “Electric Vehicles [EV]”. Together, they could get us two more $5,000
grants and 700 more CEC points. Depending on how new federal energy-related funds
are distributed, such points may better position Croton for future grants from the State.
For a recently-funded federal program, see “New Business”.
Next step is securing Village Board approval for the campaigns. [On 12/20, the Village
Board passed a resolution allowing Mayor Pugh to sign the Letter of Commitment
required by NYSERDA to show municipal support for both Campaigns. Both Scoping
Docs were submitted, along with the resolution and Letter, on 12/24/21.]
Key to each campaign is securing information on EV and HP (any type) purchases. To
get the $5K grants, we need to submit a “Customer List” for each showing purchaser
name and address, supplier/dealer name and town, and purchase date. To encourage
receipt of that data, Lindsay proposed $100 bonuses to the first 5 customers for EVs
and same for the first 5 HPs that provide the data. To avoid prior issues with
NYSERDA funds passing through Village hands, a third party would assist with getting
1

the information and would handle the bonuses, which would come from private
sources. The Village (and our Committee) would play no part in the funding. The third
party would supply the data to us for the Customer List. Since our last meeting, Lindsay
has been negotiating with C100 to be the third party. Leo Wiegman (who is on C100’s
board), emailed on 12/18 that C100 may be able to do so. As a backup, Bernie agreed
to ask C4C/HNM to see if it might do the same. Brian directed Lindsay to run this by the
Village’s attorney. Various venues will be used to promote the program and bonuses.
Unlike the speed of our first two Community Campaigns (each done in a month) these
campaigns may run through 2022 to find and log the needed purchases. However, we
have until 12/31/2025 to do so, unless program funds run out first. The federal
infrastructure bill that passed last month contains billions for EV chargers and other
energy-related programs that may encourage EV adoption. If a version of Pres. Biden’s
BBB bill gets passed, additional funds may become available.
After the holidays, Jon, Len, and Bernie agreed to work together on getting the Stretch
Code adopted. Before our next meeting, Lindsay will send them NYSERDA docs
needed for that process. [Done on 12/20/21]. Passage of the Code will get us another
$5,000 grant and 1,200 CEC points, but the Stretch Code must be made effective by
June 30, 2022. We discussed the need to inform local architects and contractors.
- Other Solar Projects
On the SolSystems’ train station canopies, a 12/7/21 revised calculation (taking into
account various increases and decreases of costs and incentives) shows projected
annual leasing rent at $450,768. The drop from the $590,000 in Sol’s original proposal
stems from a 15% kWp reduction (due to Fire Dept. and other requirements) and the
net difference in various incentives. Sol is prepping revised costs for a water
management system design that may further reduce annual rent. Deadlines on some
incentives were discussed. [Sol later provided an accounting to show it had gotten
extensions or filed paperwork that essentially “beat the clock” so that the construction
deadline is now in late 2023.] The most recent Sol meeting covered other issues, e,g.,
permit fees, bonds, siting EV chargers. For the latter, see below under “EV/EVSE”.
On the Croton Landing Park canopy, efforts continue to overcome the present “park
alienation” law issue. Several developers (including NYPA) provided input on how it is
blocking solar growth. Joel and Lindsay continue to work with Sandy Galef’s office on
possible strategies and amendments to pass A.6838.
- EV/EVSE
To get us started on our “Community Campaign for EVs”, Niall compiled a contact list of
61 Westchester car dealerships that sell new EVs. NYSERDA requires that we have
“partnerships” with them in order to demonstrate that our promotional efforts are related
to them. Niall’s list will be part of the Scoping Document required by NYSERDA prior to
starting a campaign. It will become an online article listing them for Crotonites. It will ask
2

buyers to state when they bought an EV from one of those dealers. If they do so after
NYSERDA accepts our Scoping Document, it’s assumed that we helped make that
happen. We expect approval of the Scoping Doc by late-January.
As part of that EV promo campaign, Dan compiled information on residential Level 2 EV
chargers. While not essential to getting a grant, the data may encourage potential EV
buyers toward their purchases. It too will be posted at our web page. His notes are
appended at the end of these minutes.
On 11/30, Dan O’Connor Frank Balbi, and Lindsay scoped out the location of 12 dualport EV chargers at the train station. The lowest cost way to mount them would be on
the canopy columns, but Sol later said doing so would create legal complications. With
Village staff, a pedestal-mounted layout near columns will be developed. As per Dan
O’Connor’s plan, they will be dispersed among three sections of the lot, including a pair
in the handicapped section. At the 12/2 semi-monthly planning call with SolSystems, we
reviewed covering 90% of the cost for the EV infrastructure (not the chargers) through
Con Ed’s PowerReady program, worth (roughly) $100K. The new $5K grants could pay
for up to 3 chargers at the train station, which should be sufficient for several years.
An option to install an EV charger at the DPW parking lot is being reviewed with Bryan
Healy and Frank Balbi. To avoid parking capacity issues (there are only 35 spaces), it
would be installed but not enabled until two employees wish to park EVs in that lot. One
$5K grant could cover the cost of the charger (incentives for chargers ran out in July).
Con Ed’s PowerReady program could be tapped to cover 50% of the infrastructure cost.
In early December, the school district won a $120,000 grant for one EV school bus. On
12/14, Transportation Director Joe Bernardi stated:
Yes, the district received notification from the Governor's office that we have been awarded $120,000
in NYSERDA grant funding for a 66-passenger electric bus. Also, in our proposition that was passed
last May, there is funding for an EV charger. We are beginning to look at our options and welcome any
suggestions or connections you may have. We have met with a few companies, but most of the
funding requires public usage which we are not considering at this time.

The bus is expected to be in service by September. Further details may be provided at
the school district’s Environmental Sustainability Committee January meeting.
- Food Scrap Recycling Program
Work on a proposal from Ossining’s food scrap program manager (Marcus DaSilva)
continues. We are waiting for a response from NY DEC regarding how we may be
allowed to change our $11K grant to match present realities. As a site, the parking lot at
Silver Lake Park looks good and has a water connection needed for cleaning scrap bins.
Brian raised several possible issues and asked if the northern end of Lot H of the train
station parking lot (on the east side of Veterans Plaza) might be better. He also
suggested Lot A (the raised part of the parking lot), which had previously been
discussed and dropped because that property may be sold. Both sites lack water
connections, but Lindsay will look into it.
- Reports

3

Bernie took a series of NYSERDA-sponsored webinars on Battery Energy Storage
Systems (BESS). He described the main technologies involved (lithium-ion and lithiumiron-phosphate), how the batteries are constructed for residential, commercial, and
utility-grade systems, and showed us some of the slides containing photos and data. He
covered a wide range of BESS issues, including fire safety/control, taxes, and other
issues affecting installed cost. He is now our designated BESS Maven/Expert.
- Communications/Public Relations
Adlin Hadad edited a draft press release about NYSERDA’s confirmation of grants for
the two Washington firehouse projects. We requested Village staff acceptance of
content and an OK to post it to 6 media outlets. We are awaiting that OK. As per grant
rules, a NYSERDA quote and its content approval are then needed prior to publication.
- Recruitment/Outreach
Joel reported on the 12/9 creation of a new group (Purchase Sustainability Coalition)
based at SUNY Purchase. The Coalition will provide a venue to review and promote best
practices. It will replace the existing Green Business Partnership, whose activities are
being transferred to the Westchester Business Council at the end of 2021. Joel agreed to
participate and will attend its first formal meeting after the holidays. When Joel asked
attendees about internships, personnel from both Purchase and WCC indicated they had
such programs, and could offer them to help us.
One of our existing interns found contact information for a Crotonite concerned enough
about climate change to attend a webinar about it. After reviewing our recent minutes
and activities, Katrina Krasnansky is considering how she may handle tasks for us.
- New business / other issues
Len told us about the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant which is part of
the federal infrastructure bill signed into law last month. It offers $500 million toward
those ends. While 28% of the money goes to the states for their programs, 60% of that
28% is slated for small (i.e., < 35,000 pop.) communities, such as Croton. He will keep us
informed on how we may access those funds when available (probably in Q3 of 2022).
Bernie reported that C4C will on 1/9/22 have a program on the solar parking canopy
system at IBM Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights. C4C had a 1212/21
program that touched on the proposed solar installation at the Hudson National Golf
Course. Our Assby. rep, Sandy Galef was on the call.
[The Community Solar 2.0 discounted power that was to start in early fall was delayed by
Con Ed’s failure to implement consolidated billing for community solar projects. On
12/22, Ecogy provided this update:
We still have not been approved by ConEd for their net crediting [i.e., consolidated billing] having
applied nearly 2 months ago [when it supposedly became available]. I've asked PowerMarket

4

[manager of Ecogy’s billing] to send an email out to all subscribers. We have been told we should be
approved in the next week or two for credits to start flowing in late Jan/February.]

Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, January 23 at 10:30 AM via zoom.

Appendix on EV Chargers
(research submitted by Dan Colombini PE, committee member)
EV Chargers
Many electric vehicle buyers (especially plug-in hybrid models PHEV) can start with the
included cord that will plug into a normal 120 Volt electrical outlet. This may be
adequate for those driving 40-50 miles or less per day.
Level 1 and Level 2 Charger options are available, with some samples shown here.
Level 1 Chargers: 120V, typically 4 miles per hour charging
Electrical Installation Cost = $0 (assuming outlet available in garage)
Level 2 Chargers: 240V, typically 32 miles per hour charging
Electrical Installation Cost = $500-$2,500 (not including Level 2 Charger, see samples
below)
Level 3 Chargers: Require high voltage, not for residential use.
Level 2 Charger Samples:
(manufacturer/price, power/current)
Tesla - $550
Up to 11.5 kW – 48 Amps
Up to 44 Miles Range/hour charge

5

Clipper Creek
HCS-50 - $635
9.6 kW – 40 Amps
HCS-60 – $899
11.5 kW – 48 Amps

Clipper Creek
AmazingE Fast - $469
7.7 kW – 32 Amps
6

7

