                         VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
                MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
                           WEDNESDAY, October 13, 2021

PRESENT: Chairman Wagner
         Doug Olcott
         James Tuman
         Alex Morales
         Rocco Mastronardi

ALSO PRESENT: Ronald Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
              Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
              Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison

     1. Call to order
Chairman Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeal meeting to order at 8:00 p.m.
Chairman Wagner announced that Ms. Rose, Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals is
retiring and expressed her thanks and congratulations. Ms. Rose thanked the board members
and stated it had been a pleasure and a privilege to serve the Zoning Board of Appeals.

Chairman Wagner also announced that Mr. Morales will be moving out of Croton and therefore
would no longer be on the Zoning Board. She thanked Mr. Morales for his service and
congratulated him on his move to his new home. Mr. Morales stated it was his pleasure to
serve on the Zoning Board and expressed his thanks and appreciation for all the members of
the board.

   2. NEW BUSINESS

           a) Beller, Jesse & Jane—4 Munson Street—Located in the RA-25 One-Family
              Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-
              Hudson as Section 79.05 Block 1 Lot 18. Request for a height variance from
              Section 230-33(A) for a side yard fence.

Ms. Beller explained that their new neighbors residing at 179 Cleveland Drive have recently
completed work on their house and had opened up the back of their house with sliding glass
doors. Ms. Beller explained that she and her 96-year old father can see straight through the
house to Cleveland Drive. The rear of the neighbor’s house is located at the side of the Bellers’
house. Ms. Beller also noted that when a person is walking on Cleveland, he/she can see
through the Cleveland Drive house straight through to the Bellers’ house.

The Bellers are requesting a two-foot variance in order to install an 8 ft. high fence on the side
of their house in order to retain some privacy. A six-foot fence would not be high enough to
provide some privacy and they would still be able to see through from the three windows on that
side to their neighbors’ house. They were hoping to leave a two-foot gap at the bottom so
wildlife could get through, but thought that with the additional two feet on the top, it would
provide some privacy from the neighbors.

Ms. Beller explained that there is a fence in the back of their house belonging to the neighbors
on Loconto, and this proposed fence would match the style and color of the neighbors’ fence.
The portion of the fence that would be higher is only 24-30 feet of the total fence. The Zoning
Board received letters of support from both neighbors (on Loconto and on Cleveland)

The Zoning Board members asked if the Bellers had considered plantings instead of a fence,
and Ms. Beller responded that there used to be hedges but the windows from the neighbors’
house are above the existing bramble bushes. When asked about the possibility of a lattice on
top of the fence, Ms. Beller responded that one would still be able to see through the lattice and
it is on the top portion of the fence where privacy is needed. They were trying to replace only a
part of the fence to provide coverage for three windows. The elevation difference between the
two houses is minimal.

The Zoning Board stated that it would be helpful for them to make a site visit to better
understand where the fence would be situated. The members appreciated what the Bellers are
trying to accomplish but they stated that they are concerned about setting a precedent for the
village and that the new fence law is trying to limit the amount of high solid fences in order to
encourage a friendly and open community.

Staff will reach out to the applicant for a convenient date for a site visit.

            b) Misiti, Greg – 100 Morningside Drive—Located in the RA-25 One-Family
               Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-
               Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 5 Lot 1. Request for a front yard variance from
               Section 230-33(A) for a 2-story addition with 2nd story deck.

Mr. Misiti explained that he is requesting a front yard variance for a proposed addition which will
match the addition he had completed a few years ago. The addition will include a small second
floor balcony area in front of the house and a small study area on the second story and a larger
bedroom expanded above the dining room on the other side of the house.

Chairman Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the
public hearing was closed.

The Zoning Board of Review discussed and reviewed the five factors:

            1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
               nearby properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed addition would not be able to go in the back or the
sides of the property due to steep slopes in the rear of the house and the limited distance from


                                                                                                   2
the house to the property lines on the sides. The property is on a corner lot (on Morningside
Drive and Old Post Road South), and there is extra land between the house and the road.

           2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than
              the requested variance.

Mr. Misiti stated that at the back of his house are steep slopes and therefore it would be very
difficult to expand his house to the back. Not only would it be difficult to design and construct on
these steep slopes, but the approval process for building on steep slopes would take a much
longer time.

His lot is a smaller lot than what is required in the RA-25 zoning district, and he is unable to
expand at the sides because it would be too close to the property lines. Mr. Misiti stated that
they are happy in their neighborhood, and don’t want to move. They are adding on to the
existing structure which had previously been granted a variance for the front bumpout.

          3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Zoning Board of Appeals agreed that 8 feet, six inches was not a substantial amount.

           4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
              or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

The proposed addition will not impact the steep slopes in the back nor extend on the sides of
the property. There is already an existing front portion of the house that had received a
variance several years ago. The additions will not extend past the existing front bump out of the
house.
           5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Morales made a motion to grant the 8 feet 6-inch front yard variance (up to the
existing bump out), seconded by Mr. Olcott, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 5-0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairman Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes of September 8, 2021, as amended,
seconded by Mr. Tuman, and the motion carried, all in favor, by a vote of 5-0.

4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:00 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Zoning Board



                                                                                                   3
