WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, December 15, 2021
4:30 p.m.
PRESENT Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Ms. Ann Gallelli
Mr. Len Simon
ABSENT:

Dr. Merrily Besvinick

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
1) Acting Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of December
15, 2021 to order at 4:25 p.m.
2) REFERRALS
a) Matra Group LLC 1380 Albany Post Road (Section 67.10 Block 2 Lots 14 & 15).
Referral from Village Board for a recommendation of consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).
Kory Salomone, attorney, Ralph Alfonzetti, Engineer and Mr. Matra were present to represent
Matra Group.
Mr Salomone opened by stating that the Subject Property, located at 1380 Albany Post Road is
located in the Limited Office “0-1” zoning district and Northend Gateway District. Unlike the two
other Gateway Districts in town, the North End Gateway District does not have specific use and
bulk/area regulations. The proposed development will consist of an approximately 33,000
square foot building with the first floor containing retail and office space and the second and
third floors consisting of one- and two-bedroom apartments. There would be a total of 20
apartment units, with 32 bedrooms in total and two affordable housing units.
Mr. Alfonzetti shows existing plans and talks of proposed septic area to accommodate flow from
building. The subject property cannot tie into the sewar line on block, but they can tie into water
line. The North End Gateway district is 8 parcels. The Matra group has 3 of them. The
amendment would apply to all 8 parcels (house, 2 residential lots) all in 01 District. No special
uses, no FAR at this time. Ms. Galelli says it’s pretty straightforward. Mr. Greenbaum asked
why they can’t connect to sewer lines. They are outside of district. Mr. Matra does not pay
sewer tax. Mr. Greenbaum asked if this size of project usually has septic. Mr. Alfonzetti says it
is not traditional residential sewer system. The applicants did a lot of testing, witnessed by
Westchester County board of health which will review it. Right behind the building is Route 9,
then Briggs Lane. Mr. Simon asked about drinking water. The water demand is trending down.
They building size was determined by what the septic system could accommodate. The septic
was designed first and that determined how many units they would have. Mr. Matra says that if
they do not have to have retail, then they will not have retail. He originally thought that they
were required to do so. They also have the building to the north that is currently vacant. Mr

Greenbaum asked if they would consider more affordable housing. There is a county program
that determines eligibility for the affordable housing units. The county would determine what
percentage of going rate should be charged for affordable housing.
Mr. Salamone asks if he has to wait for zoning plan to be adopted before he submits his
application. Chairman Galelli says she believes so, but he should speak to Village Attorney.
The WAC evaluated the application for consistency in accordance with the Village’s Local
Waterfront Revitalization Program policy standards and conditions set forth in section 225-6(J)
of the Village Code. The WAC members reviewed the policies in the Coastal Assessment Form
and believe that the following policies are applicable to this application:
Policy 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with
adopted goals and policies.
Policy 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and sewer facilities orin close proximity to areas
where distribution lines currently exist.
Policy 5C: Limit proposed development within those portions of the coastal zone
boundary area where traffic impacts such as site distance and carrying capacity of the
roadways are restrected, particularly along Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route 129.
MOTION: Ms. Gallelli made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Mr.
Greenbaum, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0. Dr. Besvinick was absent).
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Simon
made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of September 1st,
2021, seconded by Ms. Galelli, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0 (Dr. Besvinick
absent).
4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:56 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

