MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Jan. 23, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Bernie Yozwiak
Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher
Dan Columbini
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:

[Bracketed] text mean subsequent actions or clarifications. Underlining indicates a
commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: We again thank the Village for sponsoring our zooms.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants and campaigns
We await arrival of NYSERDA’s contracts with the Village. Its PM (Gwenyth Widrick)
stated 1/11/22 that she expects to get them to us by the end of January.
On 12/20/21, the Village Board passed a resolution allowing Mayor Pugh to sign the
Letter of Commitment required by NYSERDA for our two new Community Campaigns
to promote EVs and HPs. The resolution and letter were submitted to NYSERDA with
both programs’ Scoping Docs on 12/24/21. They were then approved 1/4/22.
On 12/20/21, Lindsay sent Jon, Len, and Bernie NYSERDA docs needed to start the
Stretch Code adoption process. On 1/5/22, they zoomed together to start the effort.
Their report appears below. Passage of the Code could get us another $5,000 grant
and 1,200 CEC points. The deadline to make the Code effective is 6/30/22.
On 1/11/22, Lindsay emailed the Village attorney regarding the plan to offer $100
bonuses to secure information on EV and HP purchases in Croton. [On 1/24/22, she
responded “I believe there is no issue with this as proposed”.] On 1/13/22, C100
agreed to assist with handling the money and getting us the purchasing data. We
agreed to delay offering the bonus for 2 months to see if it’s really necessary.
Regarding the solar rooftop for the Washington Engine firehouse, a draft RFP (required
by the Village for projects costing over $20K) was sent to Village staff for review on
12/30/21 and 1/10/22. Once approved, it will be issued to seek proposals. We await
comments from Dan O’Connor and Frank Balbi. Bernie asked to see it, so it was
subsequently sent to Committee members for INTERNAL REVIEW ONLY.
- Two New Funding Sources

1

Research by Len and Niall found that the Biden infrastructure bill passed in November
contains a program similar to PowerReady, Con Ed’s funding for EV infrastructure. Len
reported that, under its “community grant” section, Croton could directly seek funding to
cover 80% of it, including EV chargers. PowerReady does not fund chargers. Len said
Croton would also be eligible for other work under the new law’s Energy Efficiency and
Conservation Grant program. Money is also available to assist adoption of stricter
energy efficiency codes and electric school buses. Half the money is from existing
programs. Some of it may find its way into Gov. Hochul’s energy program budgeting.
The other new source is a solar incentive requested by Gov. Hochul from the PSC.
Lindsay reported that it would be a one-time upfront payment of $1.30/W, plus an
additional $.10/W for community solar projects. If OKed, it would provide 60-70% of the
now-expired Community Credit, and may help kick-start some stalled solar projects.
NESEA (solar industry group) is pushing to distribute the money so that small projects
get more (it’s pushing for $2/W) with larger ones getting less (good for our projects).
On 1/3/22, NYSERDA said that, if PSC OKs the request, we could access that funding
for the Washington firehouse solar job by “piggy backing” the new incentive on our
present CEC solar grants. Doing so could free up ~$48K for other (possibly non-solar)
projects. New solar projects (e.g., a canopy at DPW’s parking lot) would also be
eligible. Timing is crucial: if the incentive doesn’t take effect soon, we’ll need to proceed
without it, losing out on that ~$48K. Since this involves electric rates, a decision is
unlikely before April. By then, work on the solar rooftop may already be in progress.
- Other Solar Projects
Bernie reported on C4C’s 1/9/22 webinar on three solar canopy sites, with a focus on
IBM’s Yorktown Heights research center, Its engineer, Arnie Vimba, described a 5 MW
installation with a 1 MW battery and many EV charging stations. Also presenting was
Father Breen of Maryknoll on its completed 800 kW system. Lindsay did a short status
update on our 4 MW train station system. A YouTube of the event may be viewed at
https://fordham.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=ecd3d727-3b2842b9-b3ee-ae1901863d2f
Brian reviewed a 1/10/22 report to the Village Board on the 1.8 MW Hudson National
Golf Course solar project. The Stage 3 Environmental Assessment Form (EAF) has not
yet been completed. A public hearing is scheduled for 1/24/22.
On the Croton Landing Park canopy, Lindsay forwarded (12/22/21) materials to Sandy
Galef’s staff (including a letter from Ecogy) regarding problems with the present “park
alienation” law. Joel reported on his latest discussion with her and her staff. Neither
Galef nor Joel were optimistic on legislation to break the alienation logjam.
However, NYPA responded (1/14/22) to our queries on the problem with an offer to
assist with that law’s process, noting that "a number of [Westchester munis] are also
running into the alienation issue". Lindsay sent (1/20/22) a draft plan to NYPA for
simultaneously processing individual exemption laws for Croton Landing Park and
Croton Point Park, with NYPA and the State Parks Dept. handling the paperwork,
2

surveying, etc. On 1/17/22, Ecogy said that – if NYPA handled the alienation exemption
process – it was open to re-starting development of the Croton Landing canopy job.
- EV/EVSE
During the 1/6/22 bi-weekly call-in with Sol Systems, we discussed running conduits for
EV chargers on the underside of the canopies to cut installation costs. Sol cited legal
issues with owning or maintaining anything related to EV chargers, so it would instead
handle installation under the blacktop. They were open to submitting a PowerReady
application to Con Ed to cover part of the cost.
On 1/12/22, Frank, Dan, and Lindsay met again at the station to review possible
pathways for underground conduits to the chargers. We decided to wait for Sol’s 30%
drawings to review the paths of its trenches for use with EV charger conduits.
The option to install a dual-port charger at the DPW parking lot was reviewed and OKed
by Bryan Healy. Frank Balbi subsequently approved, if it was combined with other
planned work at the site. To avoid parking capacity issues (there are only 35 spaces),
parking would be unlimited in the EV spaces until employees owning EVs wanted to use
them. Because it is not a public parking lot, PowerReady, would cover only 50% of the
infrastructure cost. The other 50% and charger could come from federal funding. We
discussed other sites, but would need other personnel to manage such installations.
On the EV Community Campaign, two towns (Queensbury and Philipstown) have
already completed them. Both were queried on how they handled securing purchasing
information. In Queensbury, nearly all were the Toyota RAV 4 Prime SUV PHEV. [When
Sustainable Westchester (SW) was asked how it could assist us, its director (Nina
Orville) informed Lindsay that its EV expert had left SW and it could not help.]
Niall provided data on EV purchases across the State. Croton EVs have doubled in the
last 2 years, to 162. [Subsequent study found ~79% were Teslas, Chevy Bolts/Volts,
Nissan Leafs, or Toyota Priuses. It would make sense to focus on those 4 brands for our
required dealer “partnerships”.] Bernie announced his purchase of a plug-in Prius.
Niall, Len, and Lindsay reviewed an opportunity to submit comments on how federal
funding will be distributed to cover the costs of EV infrastructure. Len determined that no
Board resolution was needed to authorize that submission. Draft comments were
submitted 1/21/22 (deadline was 1/28/22). Len described the content. He expects
federal DOT to respond with details on program implementation by the fall of 2022.
Regarding the EV school bus, no new details are available. The school district’s January
Environmental Sustainability Committee meeting was again postponed due to COVID.
- Stretch Code Report

Jon outlined the work he, Len, and Bernie are planning to get the Stretch Code adopted
in Croton. His key takeaway is to push for adoption of Code in its entirety. Any exception
could entail lengthy negotiations with the State. Jon is creating a supplemental FAQ doc
tailored to Croton’s needs/issues, focusing on the residential part of Stretch. It will also
address expected increases in construction costs. Bernie will do the same for
3

commercial installations (retail, etc.). When completed, they will push to meet with Dan
O’Connor. Their general timeline is:
- meet with O’Connor in February
- March 14 - Village Board work session
- late March / early April - the required public hearing
- May 16 - Board final approval
Jon reviewed the State forms that must be submitted and found no major issues. He will
look into how other Westchester munis have adopted the code. As of 1/23/22, 9 had
done so (and 15 others elsewhere in NY). Len will review implementation, e.g., what
Village staff actually make the code changes. Joel reported that Yorktown 100 sees
Stretch as trivial. It wants a code featuring “carbon neutrality” in new buildings.
- Pilot Food Scrap Recycling Program
After 7 weeks, NY DEC responded with directions on how we could modify our program.
The Work Plan was altered to eliminate human interactions, as per COVID. We also
requested a two-year extension (to 9/30/2024) for the grant (we await its OK). For
various reasons, Municipal Place is now the only viable drop-off site in the Village.
- Communications/Public Relations
Drafts of a press release and social media posting regarding our NYSERDA grants and
projects were approved by Village staff on 1/11/22. The release was then forwarded to
NYSERDA to insert a quote. [It sent us its changes on 1/25/22, and that version was
forwarded to staff the same day for public release.] Village staff will do social media and
Facebook postings in February.
- Recruitment/Outreach
As part of its initial offering, SolSystems will give $10,000 in scholarships to the local high
school. Sol’s Claire Siwulec spoke with Mark Maxam, the high school’s assistant
principal. Joel suggested to C100 that, if it had suggestions on projects or awards, it
should contact Maxam directly. Joel suggested our three interns that have helped us
over the last year. Bernie suggested Mothers Out Front be apprised as it may also have
useful suggestions. [Joel subsequently did so.] We do not otherwise envision other
involvement on our part. [Update 1/27/22: Sol has connected with the Croton-Harmon
High School which will be administering scholarships through its existing scholarship
fund. Three (3) $2,000 scholarships will be awarded in 2022, and two in 2023.]
Joel reported on his efforts to interest C100 in working with us on some of our programs.
It appears that it will limit its assistance to promoting our EV and HP campaigns, and
perhaps offering ideas for how to utilize the scholarships offered by Sol.
The Croton resident that initially expressed interest in assisting our committee has not
responded to multiple follow-up emails and will not be contacted again.
4

- New business / other issues
Due to time constraints, we didn’t discuss our Clean Heating & Cooling Community
Campaign (hereafter called CH&C) but will do so in February. We need 5 Crotonites to
install GSHP, ASHP, HPWH, or some form of home energy efficiency project (e.g.,
insulation, sealing). It’s not yet clear if the latter can include lighting conversions. We
await NYSERDA guidance thereof. Our Scoping Doc was OKed 1/4/22, so any of the
above done in Croton after that date will count toward the 5.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, February 27 at 10:30 AM via zoom.

5

