Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
December 15, 2021
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Schuerman (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Matthew Arnold,
Dan Castner, Erik Ferguson, Edward Hadad, Robert Olson
Ex officio: Westchester County Executive George Lattimer, Mayor Brian Pugh, Trustee Len
Simon,
1. Prior to the official start of the meeting County Executive George Lattimer joined the
group to give some updates on related County issues. The budget passed with a
decrease in taxes. There are approved projects related to the work of the BPC
throughout the County: Rebuilding the beach facilities at Croton Point, connecting the
North County Trailway with the South County Trailway, EV charging stations, and
electrifying the bus fleet.
2. Also included is an engineering study to connect bike/running trails from Lyndhurst up to
Sleepy Hollow. The Committee discussed with him extending the bike path in Croton
north of Senasqua past the 9/11 Memorial. Executive Lattimer suggested sending a
letter from the Village government to his office and arranging a tour of the area to
visualize a possible project.
3. Chair Schuerman raised the issue of the dangerous situation at Croton Dam Park where
visitors walk along Rt 129 between the road on top of the dam and the official park
entrance/parking lot below. Robert Olson shared that he believes he saw work being
performed to create a staircase that would alleviate this issue. We can revisit it.

I.

Reviewed Minutes from November Meeting - Approved

II.

Reports
A. There is new “no parking” signage along Grand St and along Croton Point
Avenue in front of the deli. Members were satisfied this was approved by the
Village.

III.

Funding Opportunities from Federal Infrastructure Bill - Trustee Len Simon has studied
the various programs of the bill and has identified numerous programs Croton may apply
for: Some funds may go to the State DOT, some to the County, but there are also
opportunities with the Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP), Safe Streets and
Roads for All, and Active Transportation Program. In some cases, it may be
advantageous to partner with other municipalities to apply together for projects. Marc
Albrecht will work with Len Simon to further review the programs and identify grants we
may apply for.

IV.

Village Budget Priorities -

A. The Village/Trustees will start reviewing the next capital budget in February
2022. The BPC may submit priorities at that time. If a project is deemed worthy
and necessary, accessing the capital markets may be an option.
B. Sidewalk Repairs - the DPW has communicated in the past that using outside
contractors would be twice the cost for the Village. Mayor Pugh is in favor,
however, of hiring a contractor to wipe out the backlog of residents who had
already signed up for the cost-share program. The BPC should also create a doc
to highlight the areas that are the most urgent need of repair.
V.

Croton Point Avenue - there was a complaint made to the Village about a cyclist cutting
through the BP Station and almost colliding with a pedestrian. Manager Healey asked if
there are possible solutions the BPC could offer. Marc Albrecht will write a letter for the
Gazette reminding/educating residents of the proper laws and protocols.

VI.

Committee Positions/Chair - Matthew Schuerman completed two years of service in the
role of Chair of the Committee. Matthew Arnold was nominated to replace him and was
voted in unanimously. All members thanked Matthew Scherman for his leadership and
dedication to the work of the BPC.

