Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
January 25, 2022
8:00 p.m. Via Zoom
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Eva Thaddeus
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of January 25, 2022 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Franzoso, Mark 23 Nordica Drive (Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot 64) Minor Site Application
for Construction of New Home

PRESENT: Mr. Dan Ciarcia of Ciarcia Engineering was present in support of the application.
Mr. Ciarcia addressed questions over previous plans and stated that the updated plans revised
on January 21st, 2022 should clearly indicate that there is no accessory apartment.
Regarding landscaping, Mr. Ciarcia stated that there are a number of constraints with this site.
In front of the home, Mr. Ciarcia proposed no new trees, but maybe some shrubs as there is
limited area. Mr. Ciarcia spoke of various areas around the site; and laid out specific problems,
such as geo grid constraints, utility easement, and shading. Steve Krisky asked about planting.
Mr. Krisky stated that he visited the site and noted that it looked barren and in need of
landscaping. Mr. Krisky asked if a landscape architect had been consulted as this was
suggested at prior Planning Board meetings, and Mr. Ciarcia said that they had not consulted
with a landscape architect. Mr. Krisky stated that the presented plans had shortcomings and
were not acceptable. Mr. Ciarcia felt that it was a modest ask not to have too many trees.
Geoffrey Haynes reiterated that the Planning Board would like to see the site reviewed by a
landscape architect. Mr. Haynes went on to say that a landscape architect could determine
what could be planted to meet the various need and challenges presented, but also because the
planning board approves the removal of any trees.
Robert Luntz agreed that the site is sloped. Mr. Luntz wondered if there was something more
appropriate to this sloped site to hold the soil and help with potential erosion and to stabilize the
1

hillside. Mr. Luntz stated that he understood the applicant wanting to have some backyard
openness, but there will be sloping on both sides of the house and there is potential for
beautification and ensuring slope stabilization and a ground cover that really works. Mr. Krisky
said that the applicant may need something more varied than what was presented in the plans.
Mr. Ciarcia asked to recap and wondered if the left side of the plans was acceptable. Mr.
Ciarcia questioned if new trees would thrive given the tree canopy that is in place and wondered
if screening was the objective. Mr. Krisky stated that screening is a component, but they need a
landscape architect. Ms. Thaddeus suggested that the applicant consider something that looks
like it belongs and enhances the neighborhood. Mr. Ciarcia understood that this application
would not be approved without consultation from a landscape architect and would let the owner,
Mark Franzoso know and decide what he wants to do.
Mr. Krisky asked about the square footage of the site to determine if the current application’s
approval would include the basement space being finished and Dan O’Connor said that it would
and that this is standard.
Mr. Haynes, in response to feedback from neighbors during the public hearing, asked about the
silt fences. Dan O’Connor said that Ron Wegner, Asst. Village Engineer, inspected the site and
would go out to inspect if the need arose. Mr. Wegner will let Mr. Franzoso know if the silt fence
on Piney Point Ave. needed to be cleaned out. Mr. Luntz observed that there had been no
activity at the Piney Point site for quite some time. Dan O’Connor noted that there was no
building permit. Mr. Haynes asked about the timeline for when the project would be finished, as
the neighbors would like to know. Mr. Ciarcia estimated that it would be months as he believed
that they planned to build on spec. Mr. Haynes asked if the Nordica Dr. site would be
dependent in any way on the Piney Point project, or could this get going right away. Dan
O’Connor said that there may be some construction that would require use of the easement
over 23 Nordica Dr. Mr. Haynes also asked about the Port-a-Potty and Mr. Krisky stated that he
did not notice it when he visited the site. No one could say for sure if the Port-a-Potty was still
there.
As this public hearing remained open, neighbor Mr. Russ Davies of 27 Nordica Dr. spoke. Mr.
Davies expressed concerns about modesty, specifically screening on the right side of the site as
that faces his property. Mr. Davies does not want the neighbors looking in each other’s
windows. Regarding the other side of the site, Mr. Davies does not want the applicant to use
pipes as an excuse to not add foliage, and states that it is important that geo textiles are
maintained. Mr. Davies remarked that certain trees do have shorter roots that would not cause
disruption and noted that a landscape architect would know this. Mr. Davies also stated that
almost 20 loads of soil have been placed on the site and this would be for Piney Point. Mr.
Davies asked if this soil could be instead kept at the supplier. Lastly, Mr. Davies stated that a
cursory visit to check the silt fencing is not enough and he asks that the Village take another
look at these and enforce the law.

2

Next to speak was Mr. Earl De Pass of 10 Nordica Dr. Mr. De Pass has concerns about the rain
and all of the debris collected. Mr. De Pass also stated that the street is in bad shape. The
asphalt is falling apart. Mr. De Pass questioned “Who is responsible for the storm drains?” Dan
O’Connor answered that the contractor is responsible for the storm drains.
Chairman Luntz asked Mr. Ciarcia to speak with his client, Mr. Franzoso and look into hiring a
landscape architect to develop a plan beyond what was presented at this meeting, including
what could be done across the back of the site to fit in with the surrounding nature.
The Public Hearing remains open.
2. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of December 14, 2021, seconded by Mr.
Ghegan and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0. Ms. Thaddeus, being a new member,
abstained from the vote as she was not present at the December 14th meeting.
3. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:09 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

