Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Minutes of Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
Wednesday, December 8, 2021

Present: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
James Tuman
Rocco Mastronardi
Daron Weber
Absent: Doug Olcott
Also Present: Ronald Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer P.E.
1. Call to Order
Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting to order at 8:09 p.m. Chairperson Wagner
announced and welcomed a new member, Daron Weber to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
2. Old Business
a) Beller, Jesse & Jane-4 Munson Street-Located in the RA-25 One-Family Residential
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
79.05 Block 1 Lot 18. Request for a 2 foot height variance from Section 230-33(A) for a
side yard fence.
PRESENT: Ms. Jane Beller, homeowner
Chairperson Wagner asked Ms. Beller to give a brief overview of her application for new Zoning
Board member, Mr. Weber, who was not present at the October 13, 2021 meeting. Ms. Beller explained that
her neighbors residing at 179 Cleveland Drive are lovely people and that her home is located on a side street to
Cleveland Drive (behind the neighbor’s house). The applicant explained how the neighbors recently completed
a renovation that opened up the back and front of their home as well as removed a large tree in their front yard
which had previously helped to block the view to and from Cleveland Drive. Ms. Beller explained that by
removing the large tree in front of the house, she can now see from her bedroom through the neighbor’s house,
straight through to Cleveland Drive. Ms. Beller added that the neighbor’s renovations also allows others to see
into her bedrooms and bathroom. To help block the view, Ms. Beller is seeking to install a 6ft solid privacy
fence on one side of her property that will be raised 2ft off the ground on posts. Ms. Beller is asking for a
height variance to raise the fence to a total of 8ft in height in order to create privacy and to block the sight line
through her neighbor’s house.
Chairperson Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the public
hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Review discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by granting the variance.

1

The Zoning Board agreed that the site visit conducted on November 19, 2021 was very helpful in
understanding what the applicant was seeking to do. Ms. Beller explained that the fence would only be located
on one side of her property and would occupy approximately only ⅓ of the property line, estimating the fence
would be 24ft in length and would not exceed 30ft in length. It was also noted that a survey of the property
had been marked to show the location of the fence which is set in the middle of the property (not towards the
front or rear of the property). Additionally, Ms. Beller reaffirmed as in the previous Zoning Board of Appeals
meeting on October 10, 2021 that her neighbors are in support of the raised fence height. Further noting that
no one in the area will see the fence except the neighbors themselves. The Zoning Board concurred that there
will be no undesirable change to the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties will be produced by the
proposed variance.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible for
the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board discussed various options other than a solid fence to provide privacy. However, it was
agreed that a previously suggested lattice fence top would not provide adequate privacy. A second option
discussed was foliage but due to the need for immediate privacy as well as the shady nature of the side yard,
the Zoning Board agreed that the privacy sought by applicant cannot be immediately and fully achieved by any
other way than a privacy fence raised to be 8ft in height.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
The Zoning Board agreed that the 2ft variance requested is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
Ms. Beller shared with the Zoning Board that she will install the same type of fence (6’ stockade panels) as her
neighbors. Ms. Beller expressed her intention to have the new fence match the existing neighbor’s fence
located at the rear of her property (neighbor on Loconto St.) so that it blends with what already is present in the
neighborhood. The Zoning Board discussed and agreed that a 6ft solid fence raised up 2ft off the ground is a
much better option than a solid 8ft fence. The Zoning Board also agreed that the proposed variance will not
have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.
Due to the neighbors altering their home, which then increased the visibility and view to and from the Beller’s
home, the Zoning Board agreed that the difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.
MOTION: Chairperson Wagner made a motion to grant a height variance of 2 feet, seconded by Mr.
Mastronardi. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Olcott Absent). Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner,
yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, and Mr. Weber, yes.

2

3. New Business
a) Hildago, Dayana-380 South Riverside Ave-Located in a C-2 Commercial District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block
2 Lot 25. Request for a side yard variance and rear yard variance from Section 230-35
for a shed.
Chairperson Wagner called Ms. Hidalgo forward but learned the applicant was not present and moved
the application to the side.

b) Rotholz, Anna- 6 Mountain Trail- Located in the RA-25 One-Family Residential
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 68.13 Block 2 Lot 17. Request for a front yard variance and side yard variance
from Section 230-33(A) for a proposed 2nd story addition and a front, 1st floor
addition.
PRESENT: John Power, Architect
Ms. Rotholz was present (in the audience) at the meeting but Mr. Power presented the application. Mr. Power
began by stating that this is a project on Mountain Trail where many homes, as they exist and were built, do
not comply with zoning regulations. Mr. Power explained to the Zoning Board that as seen on his initial plot
plan for the property, there is a small triangle that is the buildable area and the existing house occupies much of
that triangle but the footprint also goes beyond the triangle on the front and side yard. The applicants are
seeking a side yard variance and front yard variance for an addition that would make the house more
conducive to a growing family. Mr. Power explained the proposed project will add 2 bedrooms providing 1 ½
stories. The addition would provide an owner bedroom suite upstairs and reconfiguration of two small
bedrooms on the 1st floor to be more equitable in size. Mr. Power also discussed that there is no proper entry
space to the home. Therefore, an extension of the front of the home will allow for an entryway with a door
facing the front of the property. Mr. Power noted that the entry addition would be added under an existing
structure to the home. Mr. Power showed the Zoning Board (referencing the photos provided with the
application) that the home as it exists has a very low profile due to the slope the home is located on. Mr.
Power shared that by his calculations the new, proposed ridge of the house would be approximately 8.8ft
higher than the previous ridge. The raised ridge would allow for a small attic. Mr. Power explained that all the
new windows and all exterior work would match the existing design of the home.
Chairperson Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the public
hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Review discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1.No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties
will be produced by granting the variance.
The Zoning Board discussed that the only home that may be impacted by the addition is the neighbor located
across the street on Mountain trail. Homeowner and applicant, Ms. Rotholz spoke to this concern, stating that
she has discussed their project with the neighbors (who are currently renovating their home helping to improve
3

the neighborhood) and they are very supportive of the proposed work. The Zoning Board noted that the other
homes surrounding 6 Mountain Trail are a great distance away from the property and therefore the proposed
addition would have no negative impact on nearby properties.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible for the
applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Mr. Power stated that the only way one could possibly expand the footprint of the home and add the desired
space would require a variance. Mr. Power explained that it is a steep site, so the living area is below grade
entirely and under the deck is where the kitchen is located and on the other side, the structure is fully
underground and only open on one side. The Zoning Board discussed and agreed that there are not many
options on how to expand the footprint of the home and the proposed plan is the most feasible design to
achieve the desired outcome.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
It was discussed and agreed that the requested variance is substantial

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental
conditions in the neighborhood or district.
The Zoning Board discussed and agreed that the proposed project would be an improvement to the home and
that the neighbors are in support of the project. It was also agreed that the proposed plan is reasonable and
thoughtful. The Zoning Board also noted that the foyer will exist where there is an already an overhang. It
was also agreed upon that because of the home's location down a slope, the addition will not stand out as much
as if it were located on street level.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
The Zoning Board discussed and agreed that the applicant’s alleged difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 10 feet and a front yard variance of 16
feet, seconded by Mr. Mastronardi. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Olcott Absent). Roll Call:
Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, and Mr. Weber, yes.

c) Knaggs, Michael-71 Mount Airy Road-Located in the RA-25 One-Family Residential
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
68.13 Block 1 Lot 26. Request for a side yard variance from Section 230-33(A) for a
proposed 2nd story addition and a rear 1st story addition.
PRESENT: Michael Knaggs, Homeowner
John Power, Architect
Mr. Power opened by sharing the home located at 71 Mount Airy Rd. was built in 1888. Ron Wegner,
Assistant Village Engineer confirmed the home predates zoning law. Mr. Power speculated that the home was

4

built with the neighboring lot because of its close proximity to the property line and that it was later
subdivided. Mr. Power stated that the previous owners (who were his clients) never lived in the home and in
2003 gutted the house, did some renovations but didn’t complete the work started prior to selling the property.
Mr. Power shared that the current homeowner, Michael Knaggs is seeking to renovate the home and that the
proposed work will help rectify deficiencies of the property. The home was described as being a small house
with the footprint totaling about 1,400 sqft but that it is “impressive and charming.” Mr. Power explained that
the whole foundation of the back northwest corner is not level (but not necessarily unstable) where the
proposed work is to be done. Mr. Power stated that there is an approximate step up of 4 inches in that area of
the house. Furthermore, Mr. Power explained that, in this back corner is where the proposed 1-story addition
will be located. Mr. Power stated that the rear perimeter of the home is in need of a new foundation and the
proposed work will help to fix such issues. Mr. Power also shared that the proposed work will not go any
closer to the front of the property line; the work is to go back and up.
Chairperson Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the public
hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Review discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by granting the variance.

The Zoning Board asked the applicant about the proximity to the neighboring house. Mr. Knaggs explained
that the way the homes are situated, the neighbor’s house sits lower than theirs therefore making their
viewpoints very different and do not impede on each other. Mr. Knaggs shared that he spoke with the
neighbors, they are in support of the project. They are friendly but don’t really see each other considering the
proximity of the homes. Mr. Knaggs stated the property is quite private and the construction will not block
views and the new windows will not affect the neighbors (they will not be able to look into their home). The
Zoning Board agreed it is a nice plan and there will be no undesirable change in the character of the
neighborhood.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible for the
applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Zoning Board asked the applicant if they considered other options. Mr. Knaggs explained to the Zoning
Board that their house is small and that they have lived there for 12 years. Mr. Knaggs further explained that
they had to make a decision if they were going to stay in the house or move because the space is not adequate
enough for his family but that they like the town, their home, and their neighbors. Mr. Knaggs shared that he
feels strongly that an addition is their best option. Mr. Knaggs also explained that they looked into other design
options for the addition but it would negatively impact the patio where they spend a lot of time and it would
also negatively impact the view/look of the home. Mr. Knaggs shared that altering it a different way would be
very disruptive and costly.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
The Board discussed and agreed that the requested variance is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

5

The Zoning Board discussed and agreed the proposed plan maintains the aesthetics of the home, that the design
blends nicely with the existing home making it difficult to even identify an addition. Furthermore, it was
agreed there would be no noticeable change from the street, maintaining the integrity of the original farmhouse
design.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.

MOTION: Chairperson Wagner made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 17.6 feet. The motion was
carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Olcott Absent). Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr.
Tuman, yes, and Mr. Weber, yes.

d) Raskob, Elke and Casey-34 Lounsbury Road-Located in the RA-40 One-Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 67.20 Block 2 Lot 38. Request for a height variance from Section 23040A(1)(a) for a proposed new detached garage
PRESENT: Casey Raskob, Homeowners
Julie Evans, Architect
Julie Evans, architect for Casey and Elke Raskob began by sharing that some of the Board members may be
familiar with the application as they presented the plans in December of 2020. It was noted that the Zoning
Board had granted the variance at the December 9, 2020 meeting, but due to challenges with the pandemic and
in difficulty finding a builder, the work never commenced and therefore the variance granted lapsed. Ms.
Evans explained that the documents being presented have remained the same and that the height variance
request is also the same. But, the Zoning Board asked for a brief review of the application and variance request
because there are two new board members that will be voting on the application who were not present for last
year’s meeting.
Ms. Evans explained the project is a new 3-car, detached garage on Lounsbury. The applicant is asking for a
height variance of 5ft 4in. The purpose of the new, detached garage is to build it deep enough to house cars
and create a workshop. The outside of the structure measures 28ft deep, the 3rd bay is slightly less deep at
22ft. The overall length of the enclosed space is 35ft with an additional area that has a covered shelter for a
boat or accessory vehicles. Ms. Evans stated that she will be reworking some retaining walls, but not the new
structure. Ms. Evans shared that they have tried to find the least obtrusive approach to use the topography of
the lot. Ms. Evans explained that there is a present parking area on a slight plateau which takes advantage of
an already existing area and that the garage will extend downhill where it will be about 4ft below street level.
The Zoning Board noted that the shed from the previous variance application in December 2020 was granted
and is not on the current application.
Chairperson Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the public
hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Review discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by granting the variance.

6

Ms. Evans explained that the design of the structure works to compliment the house. Ms. Evans took the roof
lines of the house to match the roof lines of the garage which helps to explain the higher ridge. It was noted
that to flatten or lower the roof would not be a desirable design aesthetic specifically in the neighborhood.
The Board discussed and agreed that the proposed structure and design would be an enhancement to the
streetscape.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible for the
applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
Mr. Raskob explained to the board that not having a garage has been extremely difficult and that the garage is
something they have been in need of for a long time. The board discussed and agreed that the garage could
have been designed differently but not with the same aesthetic result.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The board discussed and agreed the requested variance is not substantial due to the sloping grade of the
property and the proposed garage being located below grade/street level.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental
conditions in the neighborhood or district.
In a discussion about how far below the street level the garage will be, Mr. Roskob explained that his
house is approximately 10-15ft below the grade of Lounsbury Road. Mr. Raskob described the sloping,
private nature of his property sharing that there are no neighbors in the rear of his property as it is
common open land and noting that there is a good distance between his house and the neighbors on either
side. Mr. Raskob explained that the presented plan follows the slope of the land. The Zoning Board
noted that while asking for a 5ft height variance, the structure is located below grade so in effect the
garage will not be towering over the street.
5. The alleged difficulty was self-created.
It was agreed that the difficulty was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman makes a motion to grant a height variance of 5 feet 4 inches. Seconded by Chairperson
Wagner. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0 (Mr. Olcott Absent). Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes,
Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Weber, yes.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes of the October 13, 2021, seconded by Mr.
Mastronardi and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Olcott absent; Mr. Weber abstained). Roll Call:
Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes.

4. ADJOURNMENT

7

There being no further business to come before the Zoning Board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:21p.m.

Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie DeMattia, Secretary to the Zoning Board

8

