Present:

THE VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE PLANNING BOARD MEETING
TUESDAY, December 8, 2020
Zoom Video Conference
Chairman Luntz
Mr. Haynes
Mr. Kauderer
Mr. Ghegan
Mr. Krisky

Also Present: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. Call to Order
Chairman Luntz called the Zoom Videoconference of Tuesday, December 8, 2020 at
7:05 p.m. The Village Hall is closed to the public due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) MAF Realty -- 74 Grand Street (Sec. 78.8 Block 6 Lot 59) -- Request for one-year
extension of approved minor site plan for single-family dwelling.
b) MAF Realty -- 78 Grand Street (Sec. 78.8 Block 6 Lot 56) -- Request for one-year
extension of approved minor site plan for single-family dwelling.
PRESENT: Mr. Mark Franzoso, applicant
Mr. Franzoso stated that he is requesting a one-year extension because he is not prepared to
build at this time; he did not think he will be building in 2021 either.
Chairman Luntz noted that given the pandemic, it is not an optimal time to be building, and he
was inclined to grant an extension. The other Planning Board members agreed.
Mr. Kauderer made a motion to grant a one-year extension of the approved minor site plans for
74 and 78 Grand Street, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote
of 4-0 (Mr. Ghegan had not yet arrived at the meeting) (ROLL CALL: Chairman Luntz, yes, Mr.
Kauderer, yes, Mr. Haynes, yes, Mr. Krisky, yes)
3. REFERRALS
a) Hudson National Golf Club--40 Arrowcrest Drive (Sec. 67.15 Block 1 Lot 4) -Consent for Village Board to be Lead Agency and review and recommend to the Village
Board for special permit application for Matrix Solar Array Project.
PRESENT: Robert Davis, attorney, Ralph Mastromonaco, P.E., Stuart Meisinger (Chazen),
Alan Milton (HNGC and resident), Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney, Mike Doud, Solar Matrix
The Planning Board reviewed the letter dated December 4, 2020 submitted by Mr.
Mastromonaco, P.E. in response to the site plan comments from Chazen Companies. Items
addressed included the concrete pad on the plan, tree plan, screening and landscaping, and
SWPPP.
1

There was a discussion about the EAF and the Mapper which indicates an archaeological site
near the golf course. Mr. Mastromonaco explained that work had been done on this issue when
the club first got approved. The mapper brings up anything in proximity of the site, and the
Village Attorney added that most of the time it has nothing to do with the project. Mr.
Mastromonaco stated he will clarify this on the EAF and the prior archeological study will be
entered in the record for SEQR purposes.
The side yard setback issue that had been raised was actually a discrepancy in the Zoning
Code in which there was a typo in the General Code. This typo has since been corrected. The
application proposes a 30-foot setback from the property line which is code compliant.
There was also discussion about the truck turning diagram on Prickly Pear, drainage issues with
water coming down the driveway onto neighboring private properties, and the maintenance area
which has accumulated materials and impacted the water flow path. When asked about
improvements that had taken place at the golf course and its impact on the drainage, Mr.
Mastromonaco stated that there had been an added shed and there was a stockpiling of
materials that diverted water over the driveway, however this will improve because the drainage
is being restored to its original path. Mr. Mastromonaco noted that the neighbors do live in an
area of streams that run through their property and they will still see water but it won’t be a
result of the maintenance yard. The Planning Board requested that the site plan be modified to
include the added shed.
Mr. Kauderer stated that the letter dated October 19, 2020 from Mr. Mastromonaco addresses
the most critical aspect of this application-- whether or not the applicant has the right to clear
trees in a non-disturbance area.
Mr. Kauderer agreed that the solar matrix is certainly good for the planet; however, for the
village, with approximately 150 families saving approximately $10 dollars/month on an electrical
bill, it is a loss. Mr. Kauderer stated that this deal needs to be a win-win-win: a win for the golf
course, a win for the developer and a win for the Village.
He noted that given the golf course cannot remediate all the damage done by removing so
many trees, there should be a negotiated mitigation fund which might cover items that would
reduce the carbon imprint of the village, e.g. electrical cars for village fleets or more electrical
charging stations. The fund should be used for solely reducing carbon footprint, not for the
general coffers of the village. Mr. Kauderer suggested that negotiation should take place
between the Village Board, the Planning Board, and the applicant.
Mr. Davis stated that the applicant was not claiming that they had the right to develop the solar
matrix anywhere on the property (in a non-disturbance area), and it is intended to be
environmentally beneficial project in accordance with state law and with solar law. He stated
that they share the view that this should be a win-win-win situation to see how the golf club can
benefit the village.
Mr. Doud noted that the value of carbon sequestered is significant. Mr. Milton added that it is
very significant that 150 households would be fossil free, and although not sufficient, it is
something the village community can be proud of.
Ms. Whitehead noted that the Village Board must complete the SEQR process and that the
2

habitat report will be needed for SEQR review.
Mr. Bring, Prickly Pear, asked when there would be a chance for public comment.
Chairman Luntz stated that this is a referral from the Village Board and not a public hearing.
The Planning board has allowed public comment but there will be an opportunity for a public
hearing when the special permit application is before the Village Board.
Mr. Grant, 4 Prickly Pear, stated that there were no line of site surveys and asked if there
existed violations for changing the watercourse direction. He hopes any water issues are fixed
before anything moves ahead. Ms. Whitehead noted that violations are not in the purview of the
Planning Board.
After some discussion, the Planning board agreed that they would hold off on a
recommendation for a special permit until they received the Habitat report.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes, as amended, of November
10, 2020, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9 p.m.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

