Planning Board Meeting
December 22, 2020
Via Zoom Video Conference

DRAFT (handwritten notes: SK, BK, 5-0, as amended)

PRESENT:    Bruce Kauderer
            Steve Krisky
            Geoff Haynes
            John Ghegan (arrived late)
            Chairman Luntz (will arrive late)

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, Village Engineer
              Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
              Len Simon, Alternate Village Board Liaison
              Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney

1. Call to Order:
Deputy Chairman Kauderer called the Planning Board meeting of December 22, 2020 to order. Chairman Luntz was delayed in traffic and had not yet arrived at the meeting.

2. NEW BUSINESS

a) M & A Real Estate Development --1216 Albany Post Road (Sec. 67.19 Block 1 Lot 4.03) -- Application to modify the architectural design of the house.

Ms. Cipriano, of M & A Real Estate Development, explained that they are only changing the look of the house in order to make it more contemporary. They are adding more windows because of the river view. There is no change to the square footage, and no change to the footprint of the house (the foundation is already in). The colors will be light and dark gray and the stone will be a mix of light and dark grays.

The Planning Board agreed that nothing is impacted by the proposed change, and there is no impact to the fire access, shared driveway, or change to the footprint.

MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the minor architectural change, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Kauderer AYE, Ghegan AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE). Chairman Luntz had not yet arrived at the meeting.

b) 1926 83rd Realty Corp --104 Maple Street (Sec. 79.5 Block 5 Lot 25) -- Application for preliminary subdivision approval for a two-family home on a single lot into two individual single-family lots. Planning Board to declare itself as Lead Agency for the purposes of SEQR.

The Planning Board noted that the Zoning Board had granted a variance to create two individual single-family lots and although the Planning Board expressed concern about setting a precedent and expressed surprise that the ZBA had in fact granted such a variance, they acknowledged that there were several situations in the village where a two-family home on one lot has been divided into two single-family lots. The Planning Board discussed the need for a legal agreement that will separate the two homes, common maintenance agreement, separation of water meters, sewer lines, and a fire wall.

MOTION: Mr. Krisky made a motion to declare the Planning Board as the Lead Agency, call for a public hearing, and refer the application to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for review and recommendation of consistency with the LWRP, seconded by Mr. Kauderer, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 4-0 (ROLL CALL: Kauderer AYE, Ghegan AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE). Chairman Luntz had not yet arrived at the meeting.

3. REFERRALS
a) Hudson National Golf Club--40 Arrowcrest Drive (Sec. 67.15 Blk 1 Lot 4)-- Referral from Village Board for review and recommendation on special permit application for Matrix Solar Array Project

PRESENT: Mr. Robert Davis, Attorney, Mr. Stuart Mesinger, Mr. Alan Milton, Mr. Mike Doud, Mr. Scott Sabbagh, and Mr. Ralph Mastromonaco, P.E.

The Planning Board reviewed the letter from Mr. Mesinger which stated that all requests have been responded to and that it is anticipated that a technical review will take place in the next phase.

The Planning Board reviewed and discussed the Decommissioning Report and the Biodiversity Report, and after resolving some minor language changes, agreed that the reports were satisfactory.

With no further comments, the Planning Board reviewed the five objectives as part of the goals set forth in Section 230-58 regarding the special permit for the solar matrix project:

A. Accessibility of structure to fire and police protection:
The proposed solar matrix project is accessible to fire and police protection. There are a few fire hydrants on Prickly Pear Road and one at the golf course's maintenance yard. The hydrant at the end of the maintenance yard needs to be made accessible. The applicant will reach out to the Chief of the Fire Department since the Croton Fire Department would respond to a fire at HNGC and discuss the emergency response plan as well as provide training on responding to emergencies at the Community Solar System to address any potential hazards.

B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The proposed Tier 3 solar energy system is an allowable principal use in the RA-60 Zoning District. The Planning Board agreed that in order for the application to satisfy this goal, a number of items will need to be addressed at the site plan approval process. These items include subdivision, steep slopes, tree removal, stormwater management, maintenance area details, screening from neighbors, and any other matters that come before the Planning Board during site plan review. The Planning Board also received letters concerning this proposal from residents on Prickly Pear Hill Road.

C. The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access street.
The Planning Board noted that the safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighbors comes into play only during the construction process. The applicant's attorney stated that flag men were required to direct traffic during the construction of the golf course (as specified in the Amended Site Plan resolution dated 1999), and therefore, this requirement would be similarly adopted during the construction process of the Community Solar System. The Planning Board recommends that Prickly Pear Hill Road be repaved after construction is complete.

D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and buildings and their appropriate development.
The Planning Board noted that during the site plan process, issues regarding the height of fencing, landscaping, neighbor screening, and stormwater management will need to be addressed. The Planning Board also noted that the Village Board might want to address this as a condition in any Special Permit resolution.

E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board noted that the applicant intends to clearcut approximately 7 acres in what is designated as a no-disturbance area in the original special permit for the golf course and the Environmental Management Plan; the Planning Board believes that both the Village Board and the Planning Board have the clear right to deny essential components of this application which comes before them. The Planning Board further noted that on the approximately 7 clearcut acres where the solar panels or access/maintenance roads are to be located, there would be no trees left to preserve; the areas under panels would be replanted with a grass seed mix. The remaining approximately 5.1 acres will not be disturbed.

The Planning Board unanimously recommends the special permit use for the proposed solar matrix project provided that (1) the items noted above are to be addressed in more detail at the site site plan process, and that (2) the Village Board, Planning Board, and the applicant can agree on a mitigation fund due to the fact that seven acres are being disturbed in a "no-disturbance" area. This mitigation fund should be used solely for carbon offset purposes of the Village (for example, village electrical hybrid vehicles, charging stations, planting trees and making village-owned buildings more efficient).

The Planning Board also recommends that if a subdivision is approved as part of the application, it may be necessary or appropriate to place a new "no-disturbance" area on the remaining portion of the 12.085 acres not directly used for the Community Solar System.

MOTION: Mr. Ghegan made a motion to recommend the special permit for the solar matrix project at HNGC as specified above, seconded by Chairman Luntz, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0. (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Kauderer AYE, Ghegan AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE).

The Planning Board then reviewed the five objectives as part of the goals set forth in Section 230-58 as it concerns the amendment to the HNGC's special permit:

A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The proposed solar matrix project is accessible to fire and police protection. There are a few fire hydrants on Prickly Pear Road and one at the golf course's maintenance yard. The hydrant at the end of the maintenance yard needs to be made accessible. The applicant will reach out to the Chief of the Fire Department since the Croton Fire Department would respond to a fire at HNGC and discuss the emergency response plan as well as provide training on responding to emergencies at the Community Solar System to address any potential hazards.

B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The proposed Tier 3 solar energy system is an allowable principal use in the RA-60 Zoning District. The Planning Board agreed that in order for the application to satisfy this goal, a number of items will need to be addressed at the site plan approval process. These items include subdivision, steep slopes, tree removal, stormwater management, maintenance area details, screening from neighbors, and any other matters that come before the Planning Board during site plan review.

C. The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access street.
The Planning Board noted that the safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighbors comes into play only during the construction process. The applicant's attorney stated that flag men were required to direct traffic during the construction of the golf course (as specified in the Amended Site Plan resolution dated 1999), and therefore, this requirement would be similarly adopted during the construction process. The Planning Board recommends that Prickly Pear Hill Road be repaved after construction is complete.

D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and buildings and their appropriate development.
The Planning Board noted that during the site plan process, issues regarding the height of fencing, landscaping, neighbor screening, and stormwater management will need to be addressed. The Planning Board also noted that the Village Board might want to address this as a condition in any Special Permit resolution.

E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The Planning Board noted that the applicant intends to clearcut approximately 7 acres in what is designated as a no-disturbance area in the original special permit for the golf course and the Environmental Management Plan thereunder; and, accordingly the Planning Board believes that both the Village Board and the Planning Board have the clear right to deny essential components of this application respectively coming before them. The Planning Board further noted that on the approximately 7 clearcut acres where the solar panels or access/maintenance roads are to be located, there would be no trees left to preserve; the areas under panels would be replanted with a grass seed mix. The remaining approximately 5.1 acres will not be disturbed.

Based on its review and discussion, the Planning Board unanimously recommends the amendment to the special permit provided that all other approvals are given for the solar matrix and the recommendations in the Planning Board's memorandum on the issuance of a special permit for the Community Solar System be satisfactorily addressed.

MOTION: Mr. Haynes made a motion to recommend the amendment of the HNGC special permit as specified above, seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0. (ROLL CALL: Luntz AYE, Kauderer AYE, Ghegan AYE, Haynes AYE, Krisky AYE)

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approved the Planning Board minutes of December 9, 2020, as amended, seconded by Chairman Luntz, and the motion carried all in favor by a vote of 5-0.

5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:36 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Planning Board
