Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
February 8th, 2022
8:00 p.m. Via Zoom
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Eva Thaddeus
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 8, 2022 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Doran, Barnard 80 Olcott Ave (Section 79.9 Block 2 Lot 78) – request for extension of
approved Minor Site Plan
PRESENT: Butch Doran is present in support of the application. Robert Luntz confirmed that
Minor Site Plan approval was granted in July, 2019 for a new single-family dwelling. Mr. Doran
reported that no changes were made to the original application. Geoff Haynes asked about the
status of the project and Mr. Doran replied that the project had not yet started, but he is ready to
submit an application for building permit including completed survey and house plans. Dan
O’Connor remarked that the proposed home had an unusual footprint and Mr. Doran confirmed
that it was designed for the easement that runs through the property. Steve Krisky asked what
size of a home it would be and Mr. Doran reported that it is 2,277 square feet. Geoff Haynes
asked about the FAR, which is 0.36, well below the threshold. Chairman Luntz stated that this
application for an extension is relatively administrative. It was confirmed by Mr. Doran that he is
requesting only a one-year extension, with the plan to begin construction this spring.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan extension for one year, seconded
by Eva Thaddeus and the motion carried unanimously, 5-0.
b) Moeller, Riley (North County E-Bikes LLC; DBA: Pedego Croton) 362 S Riverside Ave
(Section 79.13 Block 1 Lot 72) Request FOR Change of Use from Office to Retail
PRESENT: Riley Moeller is present in support of his application. Mr. Moeller wants to open a
Pedago electric bike store on S Riverside Ave. Mr. Moeller stated that he traveled around
Westchester County looking for the right spot for his shop and thought Croton would be a good
fit considering the number of local parks and trails. Mr. Moeller hopes to open this spring.
Robert Luntz asked for clarification regarding services offered and Mr. Moeller reported that his
1

shop would sell, rent and repair electric bicycles and repair all types of bicycles. Mr. Moeller
described his hopes for a community bike shop with a bicycle air pump outside. Mr. Haynes
asked about plans to use the sidewalk area in front of the shop. Mr. Moeller hopes to have
bikes outside. Mr. Haynes asked about village rules regarding sidewalk use, and Dan O’Connor
cited a special permit issued by the Village on June 8th, 2020 that permitted outdoor displays for
all business owners from 7:00 a.m.- 10:00 p.m. Steve Krisky asked how many employees Mr.
Moeller intended to have in the shop and Mr. Moeller replied that it he would be the sole
employee initially, but he may hire two or three additional people, depending on how business is
going. The Planning Board next spoke about parking. Right now, at the back of the site, there is
an area that is approved as an existing garage that Mr. Moeller plans to use as retail space. Mr.
Moeller did not see this as a problem as the garage area is currently being used as office space,
so no actual parking spots will be lost. The Planning Board waived two-onsite parking spots
located in the garage on the condition that store employees use the two designated parking
spots in the rear of the building. Any additional employees shall park, with a Village provided
permit either on South Riverside Avenue near ShopRite, or in the municipal lot at the end of
Benedict Blvd. Mr. Moeller did not expect this to be an issue as he plans to ride his bike to work
and future employees could potentially do the same.
When asked about the signage, Mr. Moeller said there were a few options, but they were
leaning towards a black and teal image that he presented. The pictures that Mr. Moeller
brought were only mock ups, and not drawn to scale. The Planning Board referred the applicant
to the Visual Environment Board to approve the signage. Mr. Luntz asked for clear signage with
exact dimensions, as there are guidelines to follow. Mr. Krisky asked where the applicant would
receive deliveries and Mr. Moeller said that he believed behind the shop, on Wayne Street
would be the best place to receive deliveries. Mr. Krisky agreed that this would be the least
invasive to other businesses. Trustee Len Simon wished Mr. Moeller well and stated that he
had a Pedego bike.
The Planning Board felt that impact from the change of use would be minimal on the
community. Mr. Luntz believes this is an ideal retail space for Croton and could bring more
visitors to town. After VEB review, this application will come back to the Planning Board for final
approval.
Mr. Krisky made a motion to approve the Change of Use Application, with changes to parking,
and on the condition that the signage, after Visual Environment Board review, come back to the
Planning Board for final approval, seconded by Mr. Haynes, and the motion carried 5-0.
3. CORRESPONDENCE
a) Letter from Environmental & Turf Services, Inc. recommending the cessation of
monitoring at the Hudson National Golf Course
The Village Engineer received a letter from Environmental & Turf Services recommending
cessation of monitoring for total phosphorus (TP) and cessation of all monitoring at SW-5 at the
Hudson National Golf Course. Dan O’Connor stated that this is more for Planning Board
2

information as Mr. O’Connor agrees that this monitoring can be terminated. Pesticide sampling
has already stopped. Written into the Environmental Management Plan is that if there is a
pattern of testing that is successful, it would eventually shut down. Environmental & Turf
Services, Inc. are the village’s consultants. For several years, LaJan Barnes of Environmental
& Turf Services would come up and present her findings.
There was a change in pesticides used that the Planning Board approved. Ms. Galelli stated
that at some point there was a change in the pesticide program and the testing restarted for
another period of five years. Pesticides have to be registered with the EPA and the EPA will
sometimes remove pesticides from their registries as new ones become available. Mr. Haynes
asked for clarification as to whom this request is on behalf of. Mr. O’Connor explained that
Environmental & Turf Services work for the village but are paid from an escrow account.
Steve Krisky asked if this information was shared with Karen Jescavage at the Arboretum, and
Dan O’Connor replied that she was recently sent some other information and that he would also
forward her this request to stop monitoring. Mr. O’Connor believes that this is good news that
the sampling is below the threshold. Mr. Haynes asks if the area which will no longer be
monitored is near the Prickly Pear solar panel area and Mr. O’Connor answered that the
sampling areas are scattered around the golf course. Environmental and Turf Services stressed
that this sampling was supposed to stop years ago, but was carried forward because
phosphorus is easy to collect. Mr. Krisky recalled that some years there was not enough rain to
get a sampling. The levels of nitrate and total phosphorus are very low. There is no indication
of nitrate pollution on site. Mr. Luntz believes that this is Dan O’Connor’s call. Mr. O’Connor
stated that he would speak with Karen Jescavage at the Arboretum before replying to
Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.’s letter.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from January 25th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Ms. Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 8th, 2022,as
amended, seconded by Mr. Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
5. NON AGENDA DISCSSION ITEMS
Robert Luntz confirmed that he sent a letter to Board of Trustees on behalf of the Planning
Board regarding Matrix/HNGC solar array. Village Manager Bryan Healy confirmed receipt of
the letter.
Geoff Haynes asked for a follow up on the donation bins at ShopRite. Mr. Haynes expressed
concern as it looks as if the donations are no longer being picked up. Dan O’Connor reported
that Peter Anfiteatro issued a Notice of Violation and that the owner/management company
would have 10 days to respond, or be issued an appearance ticket. The owner reported that he
did not give permission for the bins to be placed on the property so Mr. O’Connor suggested
that he hire a company to tow them away.
3

Steve Krisky asked for an update regarding Half Moon Bay. Dan O’Connor stated that the
promenade has to be paved, but the weather has to improve in order to complete that project.
Mr. O’Connor reported that another issue came up at Half Moon Bay which had high priority and
that was that the Master Water Meter that measures the amount of water going into HMB broke
and is not registering. Options regarding replacing the master meter versus putting water
meters in every building in Half Moon Bay are being discussed and a decision will be made at
an upcoming Half Moon Bay Board Meeting.
Steve Krisky asked if Peter Schuyler filed an appeal on behalf of his client. Neither Dan
O’Connor nor Ann Galelli had an update regarding this.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:28p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

4

