MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Feb. 27, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Bernie Yozwiak
Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:
Dan Columbini (on vacation)

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: We again thank the Village for sponsoring our zooms.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants and projects
The NYSERDA contract with the Village for the firehouse solar job arrived 2/18/22 but
our requested changes were not made. Village staff and the attorney asked NYSERDA
to clarify. We await the contract for the ASHP controls. No contract is required for the
HPWH job. [On 2/28/22, the Village Board authorized signing the solar contract.]
On the firehouse solar RFP, comments were received from Frank Balbi (Dan O’Connor
had no additional comments). As per direction from Bryan Healy, the RFP was
distributed to 10 local solar contractors 2/25/22, with proposals due April 4. A
mandatory site meeting is set for 3/8/22. Dan O’Connor and Frank Balbi were invited.
- EV and HP Campaigns
Lindsay reported on interviews with 5 other municipal CEC managers regarding their
EV and HP campaigns (2 for EV, 3 for HP) to see how each pursued them. EV
campaigns were either quick (4 weeks) or prolonged (7 months) but not difficult. Most
purchasing data was obtained via word-of-mouth, with very little from dealerships. HP
campaigns were more involved (e.g., webinars, mailings, eblasts). They started under a
prior NYSERDA effort (EnergySmart Homes) and finished via the present CEC
program. SW did most of the work, with municipal staff minimally assisting.
Regarding “energy efficiency retrofits” as a CEC alternative to heat pump installations,
NYSERDA said (1/26/22) they would be acceptable if they followed the EnergySmart
Homes process, i.e., an energy assessment (a/k/a audit) by a contractor, and
installation of some of its fossil-fuel reducing recommendations, e.g., space/DHW
heating. To qualify for a $5K grant and CEC points 3 of the 5 required installations must
still be heat pumps. Due to development work required for EnergySmart Homes (like
the Energize NY campaigns done years ago), we will focus only on HP installations.

1

Drafts for web page postings for both campaigns were distributed for comments.
Requested edits were done, and a revised content was accepted. They were sent to
Village staff for posting on 2/25/22 [and were posted on 2/28/22].
In the EV blurb, the Village attorney would only allow dealership info to be given via
emailed request to info@sustain-croton.org. While a tad cumbersome, that will give us
an idea of how many people are actually interested in buying an EV right now.
To drive viewing of those postings, eblasts will be requested from the Village, our own
email list, C4C, and C100, plus via social media (e.g., Croton Community FB page). In
all cases, the goal is to find purchases since Jan 4, 2022 that we can count under the
EV and HP campaigns. [Members received draft text of the eblasts for input 2/28/22].
At this time, 4 of the 10 grants for EV campaigns (for small communities Statewide)
have been captured by others. SW told us it cannot provide assistance on the EV
campaign. Of the 45 grants for HP campaigns, 13 are already taken.
Our first confirmed EV purchase (a Tesla) was on Jan. 31, by a friend of Patty
Buchanan at C100. NYSERDA said we cannot count the EV school bus as a local
purchase. Even though the school is not an “applying jurisdiction” under CEC, it’s still a
governmental entity. CEC is instead pushing EV buying by residents and businesses.
An issue arose with the official dates that 5 EVs would be considered “purchased”. With
all the supply chain and computer chip issues, it’s unlikely that we’ll see timely
completed purchases. Teslas bought in January won’t be delivered until November.
After some discussion, NYSERDA accepted the date that a purchase contract was
signed, regardless of delivery or payment dates.
- New Funding Sources
Len reported on recent postings on securing infrastructure funding for Village EV
chargers and infrastructure, esp. at the train station. Rules, etc. for both new sources
(the Biden infrastructure bill and Hochul’s request to the PSC) are still being developed
and unlikely to be known until late spring or early fall. It’s possible they may not be
available in time to cover train station EV chargers but may help on future projects.
Federal funds are being distributed by US DOT to focus on interstate highways. Under
a separate “community” pot of money, we may get a shot at an EV charger grant. NYS
will get $29.5M of the $615M in this program for its EV charging network. The State
must submit its plan by August 1. This is not to be confused with Con Ed’s PowerReady
program that covers EV conduits (but not chargers) which is presently available.
- Other Solar Projects
Train station canopies – The 30% drawings (needed for permits, charger siting, etc.)
will be available by end of March (incl. a new water management proposal). Timeline
and supply chain issues have arisen (e.g., transformer availability). Work should start
this summer but may extend into early 2023.

2

Croton Landing Park canopies – On 2/22, a Village Board work session reviewed ways
to secure a special park alienation exemption that could move the project forward. In a
2/23 zoom with Lindsay, NYPA laid out how it would assist securing the exemption not
only for Croton Landing, but for a dozen other Westchester park sites. Under that deal,
solar developers (incl. Ecogy), agreed to move ahead with development at parks, with a
proviso that failure to secure an exemption would result in reimbursement from NYPA
for development costs incurred up to that point. Bi-monthly zooms are now scheduled
with NYPA to push ahead to get the exemptions by June.
Hudson Golf course ground-mount – The 1/24/22 hearing did not raise any new issues.
The Stage 3 Environmental Assessment Form (EAF) has not yet been completed.
Brian told us the SEQRA process had to be re-started, which will push the review
process into the future, so the ball in back in the developer’s (Matrix’s) court.
- EV/EVSE
During the 2/24/22 bi-weekly call-in with Sol Systems, we were reminded that the cost of
the EV charger conduits were part of Sol’s bid. Any funding received to cover such EV
infrastructure costs might then help defer some of the extra cost for water management.
Regarding EV school buses, the school’s Transportation Supervisor said (2/15) that
purchasing of one 66-passenger bus is in-progress, with hoped-for delivery in time for
the Fall 2022 school term.
- Stretch Code

Jon/Bernie/Len finished the Stretch PPt. show for Village staff and the Board. [Members
were copied on 3/1/22.]. A kick-off meeting with Dan O’Connor and Bryan Healy is
scheduled for 3/1/2022. Thereafter, next steps would be VB review and a hearing.
- Pilot Food Scrap Recycling Program
On 2/22/22, NY DEC OKed our request for a two-year extension (to 9/30/2024) for our
grant. Work on the program has been suspended until early 2023 when (hopefully)
COVID will no longer be an issue.
- Communications/Public Relations
Our press release on our NYSERDA grants and projects was featured in the 1/26/22
issue of the Gazette and (in the following week) the online version of the River Journal.
A shorter version appeared in the February Village newsletter.
A brief mention of the EV campaign appeared in C100’s February newsletter.
Due to programmatic and technical changes, Lindsay had Village staff remove the
following links at our web page:
- Sign Up Now for Community Solar 2.0
- Get Paid to Cut Your Electric Load
3

- Drive An EV And Kiss Your Gas Goodbye
- Update on Community Choice Aggregation
- Gas Survey Update
- Living LED Lighting Lab PowerPoint and its video link
- all links to Energize NY videos (program was shut down years ago).
They will be replaced with content for the EV and HP campaigns, and other items not
related to them (e.g., report on the train station canopy project).
- Other Reports
Joel updated us on Gov. Hochul’s $1.5B Solar Roadmap (essentially a funding request
to the PSC) update and “community-led solar” (a new PSC classification for
disadvantaged communities). In ConEdLand, 150 MW of non-residential projects <1
MW would be eligible for up to $1.40/W if community solar. Larger projects would be
funded up to $.85/W. A new draft of the Roadmap will be provided to PSC after 3/7/22. It
may be several months before we learn what will actually be available at our end.
Lindsay summarized a 2/17 zoom with Bryan Healy and NYPA on the pricing of its
“100% renewable” power offering. Bottom line: it’s too expensive and can’t help us win
more grants. We should “call back in 2023” to see if a better deal may develop.
- Recruitment/Outreach
The $10,000 scholarship offering by SolSystems was accepted by the school district. It
was merged into the high school’s existing scholarship program. Three scholarships at
$2,000 each will be provided this term, and two others at the end of the 2023-24 term.
The work schedule under the school’s Energy Performance Contract (EPC) was sent to
committee members on 2/18/22. The LED lighting upgrade at the high school is done,
with similar work scheduled at the other sites by the end of the term. Other work
(envelope, steam traps, pipe insulation) is noted as "complete". Solar rooftop work
totaling 381.5 kWp) at the 3 schools is scheduled for completion by the end of October.
The person that initially offered assistance with a community GHG inventory is
recovering from COVID. In March, he will re-assess his ability to do so.
- New Business / Other Issues
NYPA recently issued its new tariff. Croton’s municipal electric bill will rise 10-15% this
year. That may add $25K - $38K to the present ~$250K/yr municipal electric bill.

Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, March 27 at 10:30 AM via zoom.
4

