APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Annual Meeting
Sunday, January 2, 2022
THIS MEETING WAS DONE VIRTUALLY USING ZOOM ONLY.
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), C. Colombo (133), R. Pappas (404), M. Mansfield
(320), J. Streany (275), D. Vlad (318), B. Powers (474), R. Cusano (141), T. Kaplan (501), G.
Tucci (284), K. Russell-Goldstein (576)
Department Members: J. Delaney (350), J. Kempter (478), J. Powers (390), F. Streany
(274), B. Farber (570), D. Kempter (484), T. Dinkler (152), C. Delaney (597), E. Conti (137), J.
Ferguson (164), C. Caterino (539), M. Mallory (479), B. Ghezelayagh (535), J. Nohai (507), W.
Vlad (292), D. Vlad (318)
Others in Attendance: None
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by J. Munson at 19:07. This meeting dedicated to all departed members, especially
John Coyne, John Oles, Richard Nagle, Robert Spatta and to Chief Munson’s father, Gerald
Munson.
Remarks from Outgoing Chief: Phil Dinkler was at work, relayed to thank the membership
for their support the past two years.
Election Results:
•
•
•
•
•

33 members attended the election on 12/9/2021
Chief – John Munson, 30 votes
1st Assistant Chief – Josh Karpoff, 28 votes
2nd Assistant Chief – Chris Colombo, 30 votes
Motion G. Tucci / 2nd K. Goldstein to approve - CARRIED

Nomination of Secretary & Treasurer
•
•

Motion C. Colombo / 2nd G. Tucci to nominate Phil Dinkler to position of Treasurer CARRIED
Motion C. Colombo / 2nd J. Streany to nominate John Munson to position of Secretary CARRIED

Swearing-In of Newly Elected & Appointed Officers
•
•

J. Munson swore in all Assistant Chiefs, Deputy Chiefs, Captains, Lieutenants, Engineers
and Safety Officers in attendance.
J. Streany swore in Chief Munson.

Remarks by Newly Elected Chiefs
•

•

2nd Assistant Chief C. Colombo thanked all for their support to him, the department and
the community. He is looking forward to the years ahead. Encouraged all members to
be safe, smart and to guide one another.
1st Assistant Chief J. Karpoff thanked all for their support the past two years as 2nd
Assistant Chief, is hopeful life without COVID will happen sooner than later, reminded all

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Annual Meeting
Sunday, January 2, 2022
•

that we are here for the same reason – to help the public and to make it a better and
safer community – so we shouldn’t overlook the mission.
Chief Munson stated the following;

“First, I want to take this opportunity to thank our outgoing Chief, Phil Dinkler,
for stepping up and becoming a Chief Officer once again when the department had an
unexpected vacancy to fulfill. You have served the past four plus years during what will
go down as one of the craziest times not only for us as a department, but as an entire
nation and beyond. I don’t think everyone truly appreciates just how much you do for
so many people. In addition to your commitment to our department, you are one of the
most active members and officers of Croton EMS, your work full time as a nurse at
Phelps Hospital and work almost another full time job as a Paramedic at Ossining EMS.
You truly embody the “service above self” saying and are an example of what a decent
human being is to all of us. Thank you for your leadership, commitment and most
importantly our friendship which spans 30 something years.
With that said, I would like to thank the membership for once again entrusting
me to lead such an incredible organization. It has not always been a smooth ride to the
top, but life is about the journey, not the destination. We have faced some rough
patches on this road together, often tugging at our heartstrings and making many of us
contemplate whether we want to stay the course or abandon ship – and based on the
fact nobody has left in the past year or so, I know we all feel the same way and we care
too much about what we do, and more importantly, who we are. I would also be remiss
if I didn’t take a moment to thank my wife, Maureen, and my two amazing kids Sean
and Mackenzie, for their never-ending support of whatever crazy endeavors I ever take
on.
We are faced with a changing community amongst a changing society. Gone are
the many generational families that made Croton what it was and what many of us grew
up knowing it to be. But that shouldn’t take away from the fact that there is new blood
here and with that, perhaps a breath of fresh air and untapped potential for us as a
department. With open arms I hope you all join me and welcome our newest members,
many of whom have been working to be the most productive members they can be.
Without a doubt, over the past few years we lost a lot of our mentors, our
friends and our family. Their everlasting impression upon us and the roads they helped
pave for us as a department will never be forgotten, and I plan to make it my mission to
honor their legacy.
As we head into 2022, there are a number of goals and bigger items that Josh,
Chris and I have to address. Seeking out new members and retaining our best
members is our primary goal. As a department we need to look at different avenues to
help recruit new blood and to keep our members as involved as possible – even if this
means changing how we do things. We are already working with the Village to seek
grants to replace our fireboat, to upgrade our turnout gear washing machine and dryer
and to better outfit our members and fleet with SCBA equipment and equipment to aid
in firefighter rescues. We will be seeking out a new replacement for Tower Ladder 44,
look at upgrading and improving our three firehouses and laying down both a five year

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Annual Meeting
Sunday, January 2, 2022
and a ten year plan for us as a department. We have always been a progressive and
aggressive department – and this is not going to change anytime soon. We will
continue to train to be the best prepared fire department in the area, and we will
constantly look at way to best improve how we provide services to our community and
beyond. This is a department full of talent and passion, and together we will continue
to be “Simply the best.” I look forward to working with Josh, Chris, all of our Officers
and all of our members as we head into our 130th year as the Croton-on-Hudson
Volunteer Fire Department!
Thank you, stay safe and God bless all of you. “
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad/2nd G. Tucci – CARRIED.

M eeting Adjourned at 19:31
M inutes Respectfully Subm itted By John M unson, Council Secretary on 1/ 3/ 22.

