APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, September 28th, 2021
Roll Call: P. Dinkler (150), J. Munson (221), D. Bennett (506), R. Pappas (404), M. Feminella
(162), J. Streany (275), B. Powers (474), D. Vlad (318), R. Cusano (141), W. Skiba (267), K.
Goldstein (576), G. Tucci (284)
EXCUSED: J. Karpoff (487)
Department Members: D. Altamura (327), R. Cappelazzi (126), F. Streany (274), C. Sarcone
(259), E. Conti (137), L. Scalzo (262), J. Delaney (350), C. Angstadt (597), T. Kaplan (501), W.
Cerrato (128)
Others in Attendance: Manager B. Healy, Trustee L. Simon
Meeting Called to Order by: J. Munson with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of
Silence for Deceased Members and for those lost on 9/11/2001 at 20:00.
Special Orders of Business: Manager Healy introduced himself and thanked membership for
their commitment, he looks forward to working with us. Trustee Simon thanked Manager for all
he has done in new role so far, states he looks forward to continuing to work with the
department.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes: Motion D. Bennett/2nd G. Tucci to
approve May, July & August 2021 Minutes – CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
•

•

•
•
•
•

•
•

Application for Active Membership in Chemical Engine Company received for Micaela
Longman-Perez. Motion W. Skiba/2nd M.Feminella to approve pending favorable Criminal
Background Check – CARRIED.
Application for Active Membership in Chemical Engine Company received for Timothy
Fanelli. Motion D. Bennett/2nd G. Tucci to approve pending favorable Criminal
Background Check – CARRIED.
Letter received from Verplanck FD thanking the CFD for their assistance at a recent 3rd
Alarm fire.
Request for #363.38 for new picture frame by A. Gagliotti for Municipal Building ExChiefs display. Motion J. Streany/2nd G. Tucci to approve – CARRIED.
A. Gagliotti also provided receipt for recent plaque updates which were approved at
previous meeting.
Letter received from Chemical Engine Company indicating that none of the members
contemplating resignation a month ago have resigned and will continue to remain as
active members.
Bill for Municipal Marketing for annual Fund Drive Reminder letters in the amount of
$1,061.26. Motion J. Streany/2nd J. Munson to approve – CARRIED.
Email received from J. Ferguson related to officer requirements – tabled to new
business.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, September 28th, 2021
•
•

Letter from Hook & Ladder indicating Anita Dominello went from active to social status
7/7/2021.
Letter from Hook & Ladder reporting applications received for Micaela Longman-Perez &
Robert Perez, however there was some confusion and Micaela is applying to Chemical
Engine and Robert is withdrawing his application due to other commitments.

Reports of the Chiefs
P. Dinkler (2081)
•
•
•

•
•
•
•

•

The new Engine 118 is back at dealer for repairs.
Department is awaiting results of floor study at Grand Street/E118 Bay.
Croton EMS will soon be moving into Harmon Firehouse “temporarily” to allow for mold
removal and remediation at CEMS House. J. Streany commented that house is in the
current state it is due to village’s lack of preventative maintenance, an ongoing issue
related to all facilities for a number of years.
Entry of Fire Reports is going slow, April’s are completed finally.
Question from B. Powers – where will all furniture in Ready Room go during CEMS
move-in. P. Dinkler/B. Healy will discuss.
Question from T. Kaplan – where will Fire Prevention supplies stored in Ready Room go
when CEMS moves into Ready Room. P. Dinkler reports FD will still have access to it.
Question from J. Streany to B. Healy – Is this actually temporary or part of a permanent
solution. B. Healy states it depends on total cost and how the Village Board decides to
proceed.
J. Streany also commented that FD needs to weigh in on all work at Harmon Firehouse
and be in the loop as to what is going on.

J. Munson (2082)
•
•

•

•

Thanks to everyone for their continued commitment to the department.
Apparatus repairs recently made to E118 (1993), E119, E120. New E118 at dealer for
long list of issues. M12 is out of service with 2 blown motors, committee working on
replacement boat. New Chief’s Car is on order.
Live Fire Training in New Haven set for Sunday 10/10/2021. Advanced Extrication
training being held first weekend of November in Dover, NJ, up to 10 CFD members to
attend. Bailout recerts in progress – about half of membership has completed it.
Croton Point Fireworks detail (Boy Scouts) on 10/16. Request for TL44 during day and
Engine at night for fireworks.

J. Karpoff (2083) via email
•

Reminder to all members to register for new NYS Learning Management System website
to register for courses and to see training history.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, September 28th, 2021
•
•

•
•

Reminder to all taking classes to let him know well in advance to ensure paperwork and
equipment is allocated on time.
Grand Street Firehouse ice machine repaired on 9/28, elevator repaired again, new LED
exterior lighting has been installed, awaiting engineer’s report on E118 bay floor, lights
in upstairs areas awaiting parts, DPW working on issues with shower in 2nd floor
bathroom.
Washington Firehouse water leak from recent Ida rains has been addressed.
Harmon Firehouse ice machine fixed on 9/27, flag pole area repairs underway.

Reports of Committees
BY-LAWS Harmon Engine approved new wording of By-Laws related to drivers/driver training.
P. Dinkler appointed J. Ferguson to head sub-committee to revamp officer requirements.
Interested members should contact J. Ferguson.
LOSAP T. Dinkler reports NYS approved service credit for participants up to 50 years of
service. Current CFD program only allows for 20 years. Under recommendation of J. Streany,
Council will work to change current system to allow new credit permissions which has to be put
to public referendum by 11/2023. B. Healy noted it would need to be sent to county Board of
Elections by 7/2023.
BIG BUCKS D. Vlad asked if we will be doing a raffle. The consensus of Wardens based on
company feedback was to not do it this year.
INVESTIGATION – D. Bennett reports they will be starting to check nominees soon.
HOLIDAYS – J. Munson reports we will hold a holiday parade on 12/18 at 1800.
FUND DRIVE – T. Dinkler reports $20,424 in account and reminder mailers going out soon.
FIRE PREVENTION – T. Kaplan reports since Fire Fair is cancelled, we will be working to get
fire prevention message out via website/social media/local press and are awaiting information
from schools about visits or otherwise getting prevention information to the children.
Unfinished Business:
1. R. Capellazzi asked to have ventilation system at Harmon Firehouse checked.
2. J. Streany asked what the issues are with new E118 and what issues have arisen since
apparatus contract was signed. P. Dinkler provided a summary. B. Powers asked if
apparatus is built to their specifications, D. Altamura said no, P. Dinkler reports he is not
sure. J. Streany asked who signed off on acceptance of apparatus, P. Dinkler reports he
believes it was the consultant, Jeff Gaskin. J. Streany also asked whom authorized all of
the change orders in village board meeting minutes, P. Dinkler reports he believes it was
also the consultant.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, September 28th, 2021
New Business:
1. J. Streany proposes a letter be drafted to indicate department’s lack of content with
county training center not allowing us to host a course in-house.
2. J. Streany proposes a letter be written to village to endorse the department’s stance that
proposed NYS Fire Officers laws/requirements are too much for a volunteer fire officer.
3. R. Pappas reports scanner is missing from E118 Bay, asks it be returned.
4. J. Streany states Council needs to be more involved and better represented on future
apparatus committees.
5. B. Powers asked about status of fire reports. P. Dinkler reports we are in middle of
signing contract with Zoll, and we are currently catching up on reports. It is not feasible
to train someone now on the system we are replacing in a few months.
6. Motion J. Streany/2nd G. Tucci to close nominations for the position of Chief, 1st Assistant
Chief and 2nd Assistant Chief – CARRIED.
7. Motion J. Munson/2nd D. Bennett to being all future Council meetings at 7pm instead of
8pm – CARRIED (D. Vlad voted “Nay.).
8. B. Powers congratulated TL44 & R18 on trophy wins at WCVFA Convention Parade and
stated it was a shame attendance was so low.
9. Motion J. Streany to give each company $10,000 from Council account – question J.
Munson – why and for what purpose? J. Streany reports he believes it will better assist
the companies and this will reimburse companies when extra funds were held at council
in 2018 to correct missing fund issue. Motion J. Streany/2nd G. Tucci to approve –
CARRIED (J. Munson voted “Nay.”)
Treasurer’s Report: $76,892.94 in account. Motion J. Streany/2nd G. Tucci to accept –
CARRIED.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad/2nd B. Powers – CARRIED at 22:03.

M inutes Respectfully Subm itted By John M unson, Council Secretary on 10/ 1/ 21.
Approved 10/ 26/ 2021.

