       APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
                            Tuesday, October26th, 2021
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), D. Bennett (506), R. Pappas (404/late), J. Streany (275), M .
Feminella (162), D. Vlad (318), B. Powers (474), R. Cusano (141), W. Cerrato (128), G. Tucci
(284), K. Russell-Goldstein (576)

EXCUSED: P. Dinkler, W. Skiba

Department Members: B. Powers (474), T. Dinkler (152), J. Delaney (350), R. Capellazzi
(126), E. Conti (137), G. Ingalls (557), F. Streany (274), M. Mansfield (320)

Others in Attendance: Mayor B. Pugh, Manager B. Healy, Trustee L. Simon

Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by J. Munson at 19:02.

Special Orders of Business: None. Mayor Pugh reports village is reviewing options for
housing of CEMS. Manager Healy had nothing to report. Trustee Simon states it is good to be
discussing options to assist CEMS with facility issues.

Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes: Motion D. Bennett/2nd K. Goldstein to
approve Minutes of 9/28/2021 Council meeting – APPROVED.

Bills and Communications:

   •    Applications for Active Membership with Chemical Engine from Michael “Mickey” Slevin,
        Bryan “Fabrizio” Garaicoa and Matthew Stewart received – Motion M. Feminella/2nd G.
        Tucci to approve Slevin and Garaicoa applications pending background checks and to
        table Stewart due to question about status when left as Active Member of Washington
        Engine – CARRIED.
   •    Letter from Chemical Engine Company listing nominations for 2022 Officers. Question
        as to R. Pappas as 2nd Lieutenant and time in department – Investigation Committee to
        report back on all candidates.
   •    Email received from Washington Engine asking to resume use of Zoom/equivalent for
        future Council meetings. Discussion held, will likely attempt to start this method again
        next year using WECO firehouse.

Reports of the Chiefs

J. Munson (2082)

   •    A Department Meeting will be this Thursday at 19:30 at Harmon for all members.
   •    New E118 at Hendrickson and being repaired, should be back end of this week. TL44
        has some minor issues to be addressed, M12 remains OOS and all other vehicles in good
        shape.
   •    Last two bailout refresher classes being held on 11/8 and 11/13. Failure to keep current
        will place members on Exterior status. About a dozen members attending advanced
        extrication class on weekend of 11/6 in NJ.
   •    New county radio project going well, likely switchover to new system in November.
       APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
                            Tuesday, October26th, 2021
   •    FD and EMS participated in a Work Session of Village this past Monday related to
        potential relocation of CEMS operations. A discussion followed.

Reports of Committees

Fund Drive – T. Dinkler reports our contract will end next year and recommends signing up for
another three year extension. Discussion followed. T. Dinkler also asked for members
interested in helping him to please contact him, as he is away in January. T. Dinkler reports
issue related to Tax Exempt # and PayPal account, working on it.

LOSAP – T. Dinkler asked that all reports be turned in in a timely manner. Also states we need
to best clarify what a member in Good Standing actually means.

Explorers – K. Goldstein reports 4 new members interested, however our charter is no longer
active so we need to address that and membership with village to know how to proceed. J.
Munson asked any members interested in helping Explorers to contact K. Goldstein.

Unfinished Business:

   •    D. Bennett asked on status of $10,000 checks to each Company that were approved, J.
        Munson reports P. Dinkler was planning to distribute tonight, however he fell ill.
   •    B. Powers asked to move forward with proposed change to Article 4.3 of By-Laws,
        motion J. Streany/2nd G. Tucci to approve – CARRIED.

New Business:

   •    D. Bennett suggested we formulate a Social Media Policy and handed copies out.
        Discussion followed, Council to work on something in alignment with Village’s policy.
   •    Letter from WECO with proposed changes to Article 1.0 of the By-Laws. Motion J.
        Streany/2nd M. Feminella to send to By-Law Committee – CARRIED.
   •    J. Streany questioned workplace violence policy of the village with Village Manager –
        discussion followed.
   •    R. Cappellazzi asked on status of cleaning air duct system at Harmon, J. Munson will
        check with J. Karpoff and/or DPW.

Treasurer’s Report: None

Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad/2nd G. Tucci – CARRIED.



M eeting Adjourned at 20:57


M inutes Respectfully Subm itted By John M unson, Council Secretary on 10/ 29/ 21.
