Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Minutes of Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
Wednesday, February 9, 2022

Present: Christine Wagner, Chair
Doug Olcott
James Tuman
Daron Weber
Also Present: Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Absent: Rocco Mastronardi

1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on February 9, 2022 to order at
8:04 P.M.
2.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Hidalgo, Dayana, Tenant—380 South Riverside Ave—Located in a C-2
Commercial District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 79.13 Block 2 Lot 25. Request for a side yard variance and rear yard variance from
Section 230-35 for a shed.
PRESENT: Dayana Hidalgo, Tenant
This application was held over from the December Zoning Board meeting due to the applicant's
absence.
Ms. Hidalgo began by stating that the shed already exists on the property. Ms. Hidalgo explained
they did not apply for a permit prior to erecting the shed because her and her husband were not
aware of the Village rules. Ms. Hidalgo stated that the owner of the station (their landlord)
granted permission for her husband to build the shed on the property. The applicant stated that
there is no additional rent being paid for the shed because her husband maintains the property for
the landlord. Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer (as the ZOOM host) displayed the plot
plan on the shared screen to show the property setbacks. It was noted that the setback to the rear
of the property is 8.8’ft. It was seen on the property survey that there is an existing fence on one
side of the property, as well as to the rear of the property. Mr. Wegner then displayed the
overhead aerial picture of the property. The aerial view showed the fence in relation to where the
shed is located as well as the proximity of the shed to the property line.
The Zoning Board inquired about what the shed was built on, as well as the size and contents of
the shed. Ms. Hidalgo explained that the shed sits on the grass and stated that it cannot be moved.
It was stated that the shed is 8’ftx12’ft in size and the items stored inside the shed include leaf
1

blowers, shovels, and other landscaping materials. Ms. Hidalgo confirmed there are no chemicals
being stored in the shed. The applicant explained that the area where the shed is located is sloped
and that the back of the shed is resting on the ground and there are small piers in the front. The
Board asked for an explanation of the height of the shed. Ms. Hidalgo responded the height is so
that her husband can access and enter the shed and be able to stand up-right while inside. There
was continued discussion about the existing fence on the property line as well as with the access
point of the shed as it is elevated off of the ground in the front. The applicant noted that the shed
being raised off the ground helps to keep the wood from rotting.
The Board inquired if there had been any complaints by the neighbors. It was noted that there
were no written complaints and Mr. Wegner confirmed there had been no neighbor complaints
made to the Village Engineering Office.
Chairperson Wagner opened the meeting to the public. There was no public comment.
It was decided by the Zoning Board of Appeals that a site visit would be helpful in determining
the impact the shed may have on the neighboring property. Chairperson Wagner set the case to
the side and asked the Secretary to the Zoning Board to reach out to Ms. Hidalgo to organize a
time for a site visit.

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Ozhuthul, Cyril, Homeowner —47 Olcott Avenue—Located in the RA-5 One
Family Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 79.9 Block 9 Lot 7. Request for a height variance from Section 23040(H)(2) for a 6’ ft fence on top of a 10’ retaining wall.

PRESENT: Cyril Ozhuthual and Neela Metgud, Homeowners
The Board welcomed Mr. Ozhuthual to the meeting. Mr. Ozhuthual thanked the Board and
requested that his wife, Neela Metgud be unmuted so that she could join the meeting. Ms.
Metgud shared that her friend and real estate agent, Michelle Turetta was joining her in the
meeting. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer assisted with the Zoom webinar by displaying
the application attachments including Mr.Ozhuthual's letter of explanation to the Board and a
neighbor’s letter of support. Mr. Wegner also displayed pictures of the existing (approved)
retaining wall with the fence. The site plan from Mr. Ozhuthual’s previous variance application
was used to show the layout of the property and where the installed fence is located.
Mr. Ozhuthual stated he is seeking a height variance for the fence from Village Code Section
230-40(H)(2). The applicant explained that the side of the property (where the stairs are located)
was to originally have a 4’ft handrail installed, but the contractor accidentally ordered and
installed a 6’ft fence (which is 2’ft taller than what is on the original plans). Mr. Ozhuthual
shared that this became a welcomed mistake because the fence is much safer than a handrail
would have been on top of the tall retaining wall. The applicant asked that the pictures of his son
standing on the chair in front of the fence be displayed. The applicant noted that his son standing
on the chair, brings him to about 5’ft. Ms. Metgud added that their son is 4’ft tall himself and
that if a 4’ft handrail was installed, their children would easily be able to climb over it. Mr.
2

Ozhuthual stated that the handrail would have been a major concern because if their son got over
it, it would be a significant fall. Mr. Ozhuthual expressed that the safety of his family and visitors
is of great concern. Mr. Ozuthual then referenced a conversation he had with realtor, Ms. Turetta,
sharing that from a real estate aspect, in her opinion, lowering the height of the fence would be
dangerous and would be a negative selling point for the property.
Chairperson Wagner explained to the applicant that new Zoning Board member, Mr. Weber was
not present for his previous variance application for the retaining wall and asked Mr. Ozhuthual
to provide Mr. Weber with some context as to what led up to the fence installation. Mr.
Ozhuthual explained that approximately 8 trees were removed and that the property was
completely sloped downwards. The applicant further explained there had been a deck but it was
hard to walk from the backyard to the side of the yard. Mr. Ozhuthual stated the retaining wall
(completed in 2021) leveled the property and now allows them to use both the side and back yard
and created a much safer area for his children to play. It was also noted that the issue with the
height of the fence arose during a final inspection, to close out the building permit pertaining to
the retaining wall.
Mr. Wegner then displayed the site plans from the retaining wall project, showing where the
significant grading was on the property. It was again noted how the wall helped to level and
flatten out the whole yard. Mr. Wegner then showed an aerial picture. It was used to reference
where the fence is in relation to the neighbor’s yard. It was noted that Mr. Ozhuthual’s side yard
fence runs along the rear of the neighbor’s yard at 16 Radnor Ave (the neighbor who provided the
letter of support). The Zoning Board asked for clarification on the specifics of the requested
variance. It was noted that the requested variance is only for one section of the side yard fence,
not for the steps as that was granted in a resolution dated March 10, 2021.
Chairperson Wagner opened the public hearing. There was no public comment.
The Board discussed and agreed a site visit would be helpful before making a decision. The
Board asked the Secretary to the ZBA to coordinate with the applicants to schedule a site visit.
Chairperson Wagner summarized that there were no resolutions to be made at that time and
moved to the approval of minutes.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes from the December 8, 2021 meeting.
Mr. Tuman seconded. Roll call: Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Olcott abstained, Mr. Mastronardi, absent.

4. ADJOURNMENT 8:52p.m
Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals
3

