Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, March 7, 2022, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Whitehead

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz – VIA ZOOM
Trustee Rosales
Trustee Simon

The following official was absent:
Village Treasurer Tucker
1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers.
The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$58,505.97
$4,654.66
$112.64
$7,364.76
$4,147.25

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none
4. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated March 4, 2022,
updating the Board on the parking situation at Croton-Harmon Train
Station.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202203/07ae2853cfcf4a22eeb1ee7170c2f79a78c6b56c.pdf
b. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated March 4, 2022,
regarding “New York Stretch Energy Code.”

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 2

Village Manager Healy explained that if the Board adopted these
codes, it would require stricter energy standards for any new
developments or significant renovations to existing structures within
the Village, the Sustainability Committee would like to see this
adopted and he has scheduled this for further discussion at our May 2 nd
Work Session.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202203/30dccebd4edd0d2eacd185902302635bc54ba594.pdf
Trustee Simon stated that anything that we adopt is very likely to be
in the next “New York State Energy Code” and is glad that we are
addressing this now.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this is voluntary but once it is adopted it
would be the standard for that municipality and looks forward to
discussing it at our May 2nd Work Session with the Sustainability
Committee.
c. Memo from Con-Edison dated March 3, 2022, regarding higher than
expected electricity bills.
4b8ea824954da4c45feeff9a08c6d6685f44c1ec.pdf (champds.com)
Village Manager Healy advised that there are programs available for
those who may be experiencing a hardship paying their bill that
include a deferred payment agreement, payment extensions, energy
affordability program discounts, and level payment plans, all these
programs can be found by going to their web-site: www.coned.com.
Trustee Gallelli stated that for those who have opted into the
“Community Choice Aggregation” (“CCA”) program, we have some
protection for at least until the next contract.
Mayor Pugh advised that we will be getting an update from
“Sustainable Westchester” on March 21st in preparation for the new
contract.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 3

5.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:

Tom Dinkler, 50 Batten Road, Croton on Hudson, Deputy Chief of the Croton
Fire Department and “LOSAP” Chairman thanked the Board for their support
of the “LOSAP” program. Mr. Dinkler advised that the current record keeping
software is being retired and the Department is looking to upgrade its
database record keeping system.
Trustee Simon thanked Mr. Dinkler for all his hard work in compiling all the
data and making sure everyone is in compliance with the program.
6.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #27 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to repeal Chapter 141 of the Village Code, Housing
Standards, as it has fallen into obsolescence, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2022 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on March 21, 2022, at 7 PM to consider Local Law Introductory
No. 4 of 2022 to repeal Chapter 141 of the Village Code, Housing Standards, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 of the Public
Officers Law to the contrary, the meeting may be conducted via virtual technology
in accordance with Chapter 1 of the Laws of 2022, or it may be conducted in person
at the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building, located at 1 Van Wyck Street,
Croton-on-Hudson, New York. The format will be dictated by public health and
safety concerns associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.
Resolution #28 of 2022

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 4

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Sections 5-504, 5-506, and 5-508 of New York State Village law set forth
certain procedures and dates for the adoption of the annual Village budget, and
WHEREAS in accordance with Section 5-504 the Village Manager, as Budget Officer,
will file the tentative budget in the office of the Village Clerk on or before the
twentieth day of March, and
WHEREAS Section 5-508.3 provides that a public hearing shall be held upon the
tentative budget, as changed, altered or revised, on or before the fifteenth day of
April,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, March 28, 2022, at 7 p.m. to consider the
2022-2023 Tentative Budget, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7 of the Public
Officers Law to the contrary, the meeting may be conducted via virtual technology
in accordance with Chapter 1 of the Laws of 2022, or it may be conducted in person
at the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building, located at 1 Van Wyck Street,
Croton-on-Hudson, New York. The format will be dictated by public health and
safety concerns associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.
Resolution #29 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with A 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Matra Group, LLC, the owner of property at 1380 Albany Post Road
consisting of approximately 1.6 acres in size located in the Limited Office (O-1)
zoning district in the North End Gateway Overlay District (the “Property”),
submitted a Petition to the Village Board of Trustees for a Zoning Amendment to
establish use and bulk/area regulations pertaining to the North End Gateway
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 5

District to allow for a mixed-use development of approximately 33,400 square feet
on the Property, and
WHEREAS on November 3, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees circulated its notice
of intent to be Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and referred the Petition to the
Village Planning Board and Westchester County Planning Board, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees received comments on the proposed Zoning
Amendment from the Village Planning Board and the Westchester County Planning
Board, and subsequently received comments from the Village Waterfront Advisory
Committee regarding a recommendation on Consistency with the LWRP, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees reviewed the comments at a work session of the
Board and requested certain revisions be made to the proposed Zoning
Amendment, and
WHEREAS on February 7, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees held a public hearing
on the proposed Zoning Amendment at which time all those wishing to be heard
had an opportunity to speak, and the Board of Trustees closed the public hearing,
and
WHEREAS on February 28, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees reviewed the EAF
Part 2 and verbally answered the questions set forth therein based upon the entire
record with specific reference to information in Part 1 as identified in the Part 2
form, and determined there were no potential impacts identified as moderate to
large, and therefore no additional analysis was required in a Part 3, and directed
the preparation of the Part 2 and Part 3 forms and a negative declaration under
SEQRA for adoption, and
WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with
respect to its SEQRA determination of significance as set forth at the February 28,
2022, meeting in written form, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has reviewed each of the 44 policies and sub-policies
thereunder set forth in the LWRP and the explanation of each policy as set forth in
the LWRP, and

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 6

WHEREAS at its meeting on February 28, 2022 the Village Board verbally made its
findings with respect to each of the policies and sub-policies and directed the
preparation of a resolution that, based upon its review of the LWRP, the EAF, the
Coastal Assessment Form, and the Waterfront Advisory Committee’s
recommendations, and the review and discussion undertaken by the Board, the
proposed action complies with the policy standards and conditions and is consistent
with the policies of the LWRP, and
WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with
respect to its determination of consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program (LWRP) as set forth at the February 28, 2022, meeting in written form,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board has considered all comments received both verbally
and in writing as part of the public hearing and throughout this process on the
proposed Zoning Amendment, together with all other documents and
correspondence which are a part of the record on this matter,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues
and adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto,
and adopts a Negative Declaration under SEQRA in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board makes the following findings
regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed
Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 1A - Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and
amended where necessary to ensure development within the community is
consistent with adopted goals and policies.
The Village Board found that this policy was applicable to the proposed action in
that it includes a zoning modification which should be reviewed pursuant to this
policy. The Board found the action is consistent with this policy as the proposed
zoning amendment will result in residential development in this area which is
consistent with the adopted goals and policies of the Village in the LWRP and
Comprehensive Plan.
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 7

Policy 5A - When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within
the current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity
to areas where distribution lines currently exist.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable and that the proposed action is
consistent and complies with this policy as it directs development within the North
End Gateway area within the service area of existing water facilities and that
although public sewer is not available, adequate septic systems can be provided
and would be appropriate.
Policy 5C - Limit proposed development within those portions of the coastal zone
boundary area, where traffic impacts such as site distance and carrying capacity of
the roadways are restricted, particularly along Route 9A, Albany Post Road and
Route 129.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable and that the proposed action
will comply with and be consistent with the proposed policy. The Property is located
along a section of Albany Post Road which has sufficient sight distance and
capacity.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above
were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, including the Zoning
Amendment and proposed development, complies with the policy standards and
conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of the Village of Croton-onHudson hereby adopts Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2022 to amend Chapter 230,
Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to establish Use and
Bulk/Area Regulations pertaining to the North End Gateway District, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 3 of 2022.
DISCUSSION:

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 8

Trustee Gallelli stated that this is one of the commercial “Gateways” that did not
have any Bulk/Area Regulations and believes that what is being adopted is very
suitable for the area.
Resolution #30 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program was
approved by referendum in 2003, and
WHEREAS Article 11-A of the New York State General Municipal Law requires that
the list of Fire Department members indicating those who earned a year of service
credit during the calendar year, those that did not earn a year of credit, and those
who waived participation must be certified under oath by the Fire Department, and
WHEREAS, once certified, this list must be approved by the Village Board and
posted for 30 days,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the list for 2021 and authorizes its posting for 30 days.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that the volunteer Fire Department has existed longer than the
Village, the LOSAP Program has existed for almost twenty years and is an important
reinforcement to help keep it strong.
Resolution #31 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with 5-0 Vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003, and
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 9

WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village fees through Board
Resolutions, and
WHEREAS the Recreation Department has recommended increasing the fees for
summer camp due to the increasing cost of supplies and minimum wage,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts the following camp fees for 2022:
Village Day Camp

Tiny Tots - Half Day

Village Resident Rates:
Session I, ~ 1st child
Session I, ~ Sibling Discount
Session II or III - 1st child
Session II or III - Sibling Discount
Full Season ~ 1st child
Full Season ~ Sibling Discount
Non-Resident Rates:
Session I ~ 1st child
Session I, ~ Sibling Discount
Session II or III - 1st child
Session II or III - Sibling Discount
Full Season ~ 1st child
Full Season ~ Sibling Discount
Village Resident Rates:
Session I, ~ 1st child
Session I, ~ Sibling Discount
Session II or III - 1st child
Session II or III - Sibling Discount
Full Season ~ 1st child
Full Season ~ Sibling Discount
Non-Resident Rates:
Session I ~ 1st child
Session I, ~ Sibling Discount
Session II or III - 1st child
Session II or III - Sibling Discount
Full Season ~ 1st child
Full Season ~ Sibling Discount

DISCUSSION:
9

$360.00
$340.00
$385.00
$365.00
$945.00
$890.00
$435.00
$425.00
$460.00
$450.00
$1,085.00
$1,045.00

$225.00
$215.00
$250.00
$240.00
$550.00
$525.00
$290.00
$270.00
$305.00
$295.00
$655.00
$620.00

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 10

Trustee Simon stated that the bulk of the increases are in the five to ten dollar
range and as indicated by the Department, it has been a while since the rates
increased and with inflation, he believes these are appropriate.
Village Manager Healy stated that we did not have camp in 2020 and last summer
we were limited in the number of children we were allowed to take, this year our
Director will need to hire a full compliment of staff and these small increases will
help cover the costs of the increases in supplies and wages for camp counselors.
Resolution #32 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Ibrahim Jamal, the property owner of 1216 Albany Post Road, Crotonon-Hudson, is desirous of connecting to the sanitary sewer system, and
WHEREAS a wastewater collection and pumping system will be installed on the
property that will connect to the Village’s sanitary sewer system force main and
then into the Ossining Sanitary Sewer system, and
WHEREAS the parties wish to set forth their agreement as to the rights and
obligations of each of the parties with respect to the wastewater collection and
pumping system on said property,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to sign the Sewer Connection Agreement with Ibrahim Jamal to
connect the property located at 1216 Albany Post Road to the Village’s sanitary
sewer system.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that one of the reasons why we need an
Agreement is because this is a forced main system with a pump and the Village has
requirements to ensure that if there are any pump failures, protocols are in place to
protect the Village’s system.
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 11

Resolution #33 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the fence surrounding the Dog Park located at Black Rock Park was
damaged during Hurricane Ida, and
WHEREAS the Village contracted Campanella Fence in Mahopac to repair the fence
in September of 2021 at a cost of $5,115.19, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2021-2022 General
Fund budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $5,115.19 from Contingency Account #A1990.4000 to
the following accounts: #A7110.4000 – Parks - Contractual: $ 5,115.19
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that this was done through an emergency process,
our insurance company had denied the claim and it was paid through the Parks
Line, we are now moving the funds to reimburse that line through our Contingency
account.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive Croton on Hudson, stated that the sign on
Albany Post Road that says “Municipal Building” should be moved and be
placed at the bottom of Brook Street. Mr. Riely also stated that he feels
the Village has too much signed and addressed other issues that do not
pertain to Village business. To hear those comments, you may log onto
the following: https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/745
8. REPORTS:

11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 12

Trustee Rosales advised that the Police Advisory Committee will be
holding a Town Meeting on March 15th; flyers have been distributed
throughout the community and is on our Facebook page as well.
Trustee Simon advised that he and Trustee Gallelli met with new Town of
Cortlandt Board member Robert Mayes and talked about our
Croton/Cortlandt partnership, members of the Westchester Municipal
Officials Association met with our area Assembly delegation on February
23rd to go over priorities for the region, on March 3 rd he attended a
meeting with the Hudson Valley Chamber in Peekskill, met with Geoff
Hamilton and Halle Clarke at the Black Rock Dog Park, they have come
up with some recommendations that he will forward to the Village
Manager.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the Police Advisory Committee meeting can be
viewed on channel 78, information regarding sending in email questions
can be found on the Village Website, the Village of Croton will be hosting
the next Westchester Municipal Officials Association meeting this
Thursday evening.
Trustee Horowitz advised that Earth Day will be returning on Saturday,
April 30th, 10:00am to 3:00pm at Senasqua Park, the next Green Living
Series will be held on March 24th via zoom; Dr. J. Stephen Gosnell will
discuss the history of oysters in New York, Bruce Laemmel will discuss
composting, Fiona Mitchell and Filippine de Haan will be explaining how
Pollinator Pathways got started, this Saturday, March 12th, the “Croton
Litter Education Advocacy Neighborhood Initiative” (C.L.E.A.N.,) will be
gathering at Croton Point Park, near Half Moon Bay to work with the
Westchester Parks Foundation for a litter and beach cleanup, the
Diversity and Inclusion Committee's discussion group presented an
introduction to the book “1619” at the March 1 st zoom meeting, the
second session will take place on April 5th. To register for the program
please go to coh.di.committee@gmail.com.
Mayor Pugh advised that at the conclusion of the Regular Meeting, the
Board will enter into an “Advice of Counsel” session.
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 13

Mayor Pugh appointed Ratna Bindra and Katherine Randel as Co-Chairs
of the Diversity and Inclusion Committee.
Village Manager Healy stated that “Summerfest” has tentatively been
scheduled for the first Sunday in June and asked the Board if they are in
support of holding “Summerfest” this year. The consensus of the Board
was to support holding “Summerfest” this year.
Village Manager Healy advised that “Vietnam Veterans Day” will be held
March 29th at 1:30pm at the Harmon Firehouse.
Village Manager Healy advised that he had a discussion with Judge
Watkins regarding the handicap sur-charge, and confirms that the
$15.00 sur-charge would come to the Village, not to the Town. Village
Manager Healy stated that they had asked for an opinion from the
Westchester County District Attorney’s Office as to the proposed
consolidation of the Court and they stated that, “in general concept, they
are supportive of all consolidations as it frees up additional time for their
limited staff to focus on victims rather than travelling to different
locations for different court sessions.”
Village Manager Healy advised that the Tax Lien Sale is scheduled for
March 17th, there are still twenty one parcels that remain unpaid, slightly
more than a third of them are “dockominiums” and the remainder are
actual pieces of land. Village Manager Healy explained that the docks at
the Half Moon Bay marina are taxable parcels, and each owner of a dock
receives a tax bill from the Village, but because it is not an actual
residence, we have had an issue reaching out to some of those owners.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Budget Hearing will be held on
March 28th, the Budget will be filed with the Village Clerk on March 18th.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Rosales and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 7:58pm.
Respectfully submitted,
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 7, 2022
Page 14

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

14

