Revised Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
February 22nd, 2022
8:00 p.m. Via Zoom
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Eva Thaddeus
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 22, 2022 to order at 8:04 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Tokke, Hans (Croton River Artisans) Application for Change of Use from Professional
Personal Services to Artisan Retail – 7 Old Post Road South (79.5-001-054)
Mr. Luntz voiced surprise that we needed a change of use as Trinkets, a former occupant of this
location, was a retail space. Once Trinkets closed, the space became a yoga studio, hence the
necessity for change of use.
Hans Tokke is present in support of the application. Mr. Tokke has a background in urban
sociology and feels that the upper village is a place with huge potential. Mr. Tokke believes that
beautification projects and engagement of the arts would benefit the community, which is why
he is proposing this permanent full-time brick and mortar facility that is a collective of local
artisans in multi-disciplinary fields. To date Mr. Tokke has commitments from 10 local artists
who will each invest $400 seed money and pay $200/month for operations and rent. The artists
themselves will mind the gallery and keep profits from sale of their art. Mr. Tokke believes this
will benefit the entire village, enhance walkability and artistic feel of our town. Mr. Tokke
showed some examples of signage for the space.
Chairman Luntz thinks it’s a terrific idea and a wonderful use of the space. Eva Thaddeus also
thinks it is an exciting idea, and is great to have a core group committed. Steve Krisky asked
about a patio. Hans Tokke stated that Mark Franzoso, who owns the building had an idea for a
patio on the 3–4-foot strip on the side of the building that could be painted with a mural. Mr.
Luntz was not sure if Planning Board would have a say so regarding the mural and also stated
that moving the trash bins that are currently there would require authorization from the building
department. Robert Luntz referred the applicant to the VEB for approval of the signage. Steve
Krisky asked about gallery openings, in terms of traffic and parking. Mr. Tokke says that things
may evolve, but that there were no plans now for artist openings. It is still a small gallery, not a
pop-up gallery. Geoff Haynes loves the ideas and the applicant’s belief in the Village. John
Ghegan thinks it’s a great idea.
1

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Change of Use application and to refer the signage
application to the VEB, on the condition that the number of on-site parking spaces is waived, as
there is available on-street parking and municipal parking lots nearby. Steve Krisky seconded
the motion and it carried, unanimously, 5-0.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from February 08, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 08, 2022, as
amended, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
4. NON-AGENDA DISCSSION ITEMS


Robert Luntz gave an update on HNGC’s application for a solar array. Mr. Luntz and Mr.
Krisky were on a conference call with the Village Board of Trustees, Bryan Healy and
Linda Whitehead and they got an update regarding the application. There are two
issues, the first is the SEQR process and the second is the potential issuance of a
special permit. The SEQR process is being “reset” and the Village Board is asking for a
long form EAF to be reviewed. Rather than it coming back to the Planning Board, the
Village Board will continue to be Lead Agency. The Planning Board is an involved
agency and can, therefore, at any time, offer comments, ask questions, and issue
recommendations. When the longer form EAF comes in, the Village Board will refer it
back to the Planning Board for review while at the same time refer it to the Village’s
consultant, LaBella Associates, formerly known as Chazen Engineering. Once the
Planning Board reviews the long form EAF, they can also get input from the Village’s
consultant and may even invite this consultant to a Planning Board Meeting as part of
the SEQR process. Geoff Haynes asked about the planning board making
recommendations, and/or comments, and both Mr. Luntz and Mr. Krisky believed, after
the conference call, that the Planning Board could weigh in anywhere they wanted, and
could even change their initial recommendations after further review. Mr. Haynes stated
that as LaBella Associates are subject matter experts, they should be part of the
Planning Board’s process. Mr. Luntz believed that it would be referred back to the
Planning Board and LaBella Associates in approximately three weeks. Mr. Luntz
believes that the Planning Board can invite the consultant to a Public Hearing for any
comments regarding the EAF or SEQR process.



Steve Krisky asked Dan O’Connor about the design Center on Albany Post Road. Mr.
Krisky was driving by and noticed some banners saying that they were open. Mr. Krisky
asked Mr. O’Connor if he issued a Certificate of Occupancy. Dan O’Connor stated that
they did get a temporary Certificate of Occupancy. There are a number of issues, the
major one is that they need to complete improvements required by the site plan. A
2

portion of their site plan is in the State’s right of way. Mr. O’Connor says that he will stop
by and speak to Pedro Silva and JB Hernandez about the banners and reinforce that
they need to be removed. Mr. Krisky also asked about the fence as he noticed that a
portion of the fence was chain link and not what the Planning Board had approved. Dan
O’Connor says that the chain link fence is temporary.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:47p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

