WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, January 12, 2022
4:30 p.m. Via Zoom
PRESENT Ms. Ann Galelli, Chairperson
Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Len Simon
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
1) Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of January 12th,
2022 to order at 4:30 pm
2) REFERRALS
a) Request by NYS Department of State for comments regarding the consistency of
NYSDOT’s pursuing federal funding to seal cracks and mastic contract to extend
the service of life and rideability of local roads throughout the region with Croton
on Hudson LWRP.
The WAC members reviewed a memo dated December 30, 2021 from the NYS Department of
State requesting written comments regarding the consistency of the proposed activities with the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) and its applicable
program policies. The area in question is on Route 9. Route 9A is not affected.
There was no CAF submitted for this application.
The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the
memo attached.
Based on the review of the application documents, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 3-0. The WAC evaluated this application for
consistency in accordance with the LW policy standards and conditions set forth in section 2256(J) of the Village Code, which are further explained and described in Section III of the LWRP.
The WAC members reviewed the policies in the LWRP and believe that the policies listed below
are applicable to this application. The policies the WAC believes are relevant are as follows:
POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on land
within, the area of influence in the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7G: Such activities must not cause degradation of water quality or impact identified
significant fish and wildlife habitats.

POLICY 8: Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants which bio-accumulate in the food chain or which cause
significant sub lethal or lethal effect on those resources.
POLICY 30B: Storage and disposal of all materials shall be monitored by the state to assure
there will be no discharge or leaching of materials into coastal waters.
POLICY 37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point discharge of
excess nutrients, organic and eroded soils into coastal waters. The NYSDOT in their
correspondence stated that no mastic work is proposed in the Village only crack sealing work
will occur. The WAC discussed that the crack sealing process will generate a minor amount of
debris from the cleaning out the pavement crack with compressed air prior to the hot asphalt
crack sealing material being applied. This debris will be blown off the pavement into the
vegetation.
MOTION: Mr. Simon made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Mr.
Greenbaum, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Greenbaum made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting December 15th,
2021, seconded by Mr. Simon, with one revision. The motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.
4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:48 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

