WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, March 29, 2022 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room
PRESENT Ms. Ann Galelli, Chairperson
Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Len Simon
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
1) Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of March 29th,
2022 to order at 4:33 pm
2) REFERRALS
a) Referral from the Village Board regarding Letter from NY State Department of
State requesting a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) Consistency
Review for a Bridge Painting Project Along Route 9
On March 29th, 2022, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced
referral for consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).
Based on the review of the application documents, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 3-0.
The WAC evaluated this application for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy
standards and conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further
explained and described in Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies
in the LWRP and believe that the policies listed below are applicable to this application.
The policy the WAC believes is relevant is:
POLICY 39: The transport, storage, treatment and disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas will be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water supplies, significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreation areas, important agricultural lands and scenic resources.
The painting of the Warren Road bridge will include preparation work that will create debris such
as paint chips, etc. The WAC discussed that best management practices must be incorporated
into the work to eliminate any debris from entering the storm water drainage system which
discharges into the Hudson River. EPA and other regulatory requirements shall be included if
lead based paint needs to be removed.
MOTION: Mr. Greenbaum made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by
Mr. Len Simon and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.

b) Referral from Village Board on Local Law Introductory 5 of 2022 to amend
Chapter 230, Zoning of the Village Code to adopt provisions regarding cannabis
shops, requesting a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency Review
On March 29th, 2022, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced
referral for consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).
Based on the review of the application documents, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 3-0.
The WAC evaluated this application for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy
standards and conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further
explained and described in Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies
in the LWRP and believe that the policies listed below are applicable to this application.
The WAC believe that no LWRP policies are relevant.
MOTION: Mr. Simon made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Mr.
Greenbaum, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Simon made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting January 12, 2022, as
amended, seconded by Ms. Gallelli and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.
4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:48 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee
*Approved 4/7/22

