MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Mar. 27, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher

Absent:
Jon Katz
Bernie Yozwiak
Dan Columbini
Brian Pugh

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: We again thank the Village for sponsoring our zooms.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants and projects
On 3/24/22, NYSERDA notified us that it would not accept 2 changes to the contracts
requested by the Village’s attorney, and that the attorney “is not willing to sign with our
standard contracting language”. In 2018, the Village signed an identical contract for our
$50K grant for LED lighting. This problem arose now because (for the CEC program)
NYSERDA entertained contractual changes. Bryan and Brian have been notified, with a
request to ignore/overrule the attorney and sign the contracts as is. [3/28/22: Bryan
Healy informs us that NYSERDA agreed to make one of the changes, and Croton
agreed to accept the other wording as is.]
On the firehouse RFP, 4 contractors came to the 3/8/22 mandatory site meeting.
Inquiries to other RFP recipients found that: the job was too small, or the vendor only
did jobs where it retained ownership (e.g., community solar, PPAs, or leased solar) or
failed to respond to follow-up communications. Two vendors were not NY-SUN
contractors and thus not acceptable. One of the other 2 indicated that prevailing wage
(because this job qualifies as a “public works” project) may be a deal breaker for him.
Prevailing wage will increase the cost by ~$5K over budget. Fortunately, the $5K grant
from the EV campaign may cover it. Contractor proposals are due April 4.
- EV and HP Campaigns
The EV campaign document was posted at our web page 3/2/22. Eblasts for the EV
campaign ran from 3/3 to 3/19/22. We thank Village staff, Bernie and C4C, Patty
Buchanan of C100, and Adlin Hadad (our PR guru) for using their email lists and/or FB
contacts (e.g., Croton Community) for their help.
By 3/7/22, we had 4 (of the necessary 5) confirmed EV purchases: a Tesla, 2 Toyotas,
and 1 Hyundai. Other responders bought their EVs before the Jan. 4 start date or only
leased them and could not be counted. After some discussions with NYSERDA, it
allowed us to count the school’s EV bus as the 5th required purchase. Paperwork for the
1

$5,000 grant and 200 CEC points was submitted to NYSERDA 3/7/22. Formal
notification of the 200 points and the associated $5K grant was received 3/24/22.
The HP campaign article was posted at our web page on 3/2/2022. Its eblasts will start
in late April. On 3/4/2022, Dan O’Connor stated that building permits are not required for
either ASHPs or HPWH, so his office cannot provide data about them. Permits are,
however, required for GSHPs. In other nearby municipalities, GSHPs accounted for
roughly half of the HP installations. Sustainable Westchester (SW) will help secure
purchase/installation data from the contractors on its list.
Another new Croton homeowner asked for to convert from oil to gas. Lindsay pitched
heat pumps, but the homeowner was not persuaded. HPs may be a tough sell.
- New Funding Sources
We await the results of Gov. Hochul’s request to the PSC for new solar incentives. Ecogy
informed us that NESEA (regional association of solar developers) is lobbying for a
higher (roughly double) incentive for projects <1 MW. It would also include extra money
for solar parking canopies. A final decision should be made by late June.
Joel reported on a 3/23/22 webinar he attended that (in its promo) claimed a $500K
NYSERDA grant was available to communities adopting a net zero carbon building code.
Because Croton’s municipal government does not pay System Benefit Charge (SBC)
since our power comes from NYPA, Croton would not be eligible for such a grant,
regardless of how it changed its building code. The program is also limited to 4
municipalities for the whole State. We concurred on not involving Croton in this program.
- Other Solar Projects
Train station canopies – The 50% drawings (needed for permits, charger siting, etc.) are
expected by 4/1/22. They will help us site the EV chargers. The drawings will include
Core Development’s proposed water management plan. On 3/24/22, Frank Balbi
proposed splitting the water management work between Core and Village staff, thereby
reducing the potential impact on the project’s lease revenue.

2

Croton Landing Park canopies –On 3/11/22, Ecogy provided docs the Village needs to
sign to move ahead. Bryan Healy signed and returned them to Ecogy for processing on

3/22/22. Ecogy will now survey the metes-and-bounds needed to get an exemption from
park alienation.
Because of pending changes to NY-SUN incentives (see chart above), the annual
leasing revenue for Croton Landing can’t be quoted at this time. By June, we may know
the value of the PSC incentives and annual leasing revenue.
NYPA is seeking our alienation exemption through the State Legislature before June, but
some filings with other State/federal agencies will be needed that may delay it. If so, we
will likely have to wait until the 2023 legislative session to get the alienation exemption.
Other work (e.g., lease negotiation) will continue during that interim period.
On Monday (3/28) at a site meeting, Lindsay and Frank will review drainage and water
management issues. [They found those issues can be easily addressed at little cost.]
On 3/9/22 NYPA indicated that a dozen park sites in Westchester will be pursued as a
package for exemptions, several of which are at County parks. It’s working with
Legislative staff and the State Parks Dept. on the requests. For those sites, NYPA
affirmed it will either work with canopy developers to perform the surveys, or else provide
grants to municipalities for them to pay for the surveying on their own.
- EV/EVSE
A relay in the dual-port charger at the train station (installed ~3 years ago) burned out.
We had a 1-year warranty on parts. On 3/15/22, ChargePoint provided a quote for
$1,075 to cover parts and labor. It was forwarded to Bryan Healy for processing. We
have ~$14K so far from the DPW rooftop lease so there should be no issue with funding
the repair. The 2 dual-port units at the Muni Bldg are still working OK.
Mark Franzoso reported that his firm will be getting its first EV truck (a Ford) by Earth
Day and asked to show it then. Lindsay asked C100 to follow-up with him for Earth Day
EV show. His firm now has 3 dual-port chargers at its Peekskill operations site.
3

- Stretch Code

Len reported that on 3/1/2022, Jon, Bernie, and he had a good zoom with Dan O’Connor
and Ron Wegman (Village engineers) and Bryan Healy. On 3/22/22, Dan and Ron took a
training class on Stretch. Based on advice from nearby towns that already adopted it,
Bernie informed Dan on the issue of extra inspections which will be done by third party
inspectors, not Village staff.
Len reviewed interactions with the Planning Board (PB), which is considering new rules
for homes regarding solar, EV chargers, etc. At the PB’s 3/22 meeting, Dan O’Connor
overviewed Stretch. At the PB’s 4/12 meeting, Bernie will review Stretch’s solar aspects.
At its 4/26 meeting, Jon will present the PowerPoint show on Stretch.
Next steps include prepping for a May 2 VB work session to review the matter. Len
asked members of the committee to attend. It will set a date for the required public
hearing (possibly May 9 or 23) and a date (possibly June 6) for final approval of the code
to ensure the June 30 deadline is met.
- Communications/Public Relations
For the EV campaign, the Village did an eblast using its cmsmailer list, and Bernie did an
eblast to C4C’s list. C100 did an eblast, an Instagram posting, and had items in its
February and March newsletters. We also eblasted our own list (157 addresses). A
letter-to-the-editor appeared in the Gazette on 3/10/22. The Village posted at its FB
page, and Adlin Hadad linked that posting to the Croton Community FB page.
- Other Reports
Ecogy tells us that consolidated billing was scheduled to start in February, but Con Ed
now says it’s having “technical difficulties” that are delaying its initiation (i.e., Community
Solar 2.0 discounts), so Ecogy lodged a formal PSC complaint against Con Ed.
DEC OKed a 2-year extension on our food scrap grant until 9/30/24. This item will be
taken off our agendas until 2023.
- Recruitment/Outreach
For Croton’s Earth Day (April 30), we agreed to staff a table under the gazebo at
Senasqua Park. Joel and Len agreed to participate. Lindsay will ask Dan and Jon to
assist. Niall will staff tables for the community gardens, and Bernie will do so for C4C.
The person that initially offered assistance with a community GHG inventory is
recovering from long COVID. He continues to re-assess his ability to do so.
- New Business / Other Issues
None was raised.
4

Dates for our next meetings were set for Sunday, April 24 and May 22 (to avoid the
Memorial Day weekend) at 10:30 AM via zoom.

5

