Revised Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
March 22nd, 2022
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Eva Thaddeus
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of March 22, 2022 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Riverside Gas, Inc.- 380 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 79.13 Block 2 Lot 25) –
Application for Amended Site Plan for existing Construction
Dayana Hidalgo was present in support of the application for an amended site plan for the
existing shed on this property. Dan O’Connor stated that the applicant received a variance from
the Zoning Board, with conditions that the shed can only be used for storage of maintenance
equipment and tools used to maintain the subject property. It cannot be used for chemical, fuel,
or other storage that could be hazardous or related to auto repair. Another condition from the
Zoning Board is that the back of the shed will be painted either white or the same color as the
rest of the existing shed.
Steve Krisky made a motion to call a public hearing, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion
carried, unanimously, 5-0. The applicant was asked if she had anything to add to her
application, and Ms. Hidalgo stated that she did not. Notifications will be sent to neighbors
regarding the public hearing.
b) Tokke, Hans (Croton River Artisans) Sign Permit Application – 7 Old Post Road South
(79.5-001-054)
Hans Tokke was present in support of the sign application. Mr. Tokke received approval for
change of use from professional services use to artisan retail use for this property at the
Planning Board Meeting on February 22, 2022. His sign permit application went to VEB, and
the VEB responded with some comments. Steve Krisky agrees with VEB that the word
“Artisans” in the sign is hard to read. Mr. Krisky would also make the word Gallery a little thicker,
1

and maybe make it a hair bigger so it is easier to read. Mr. Krisky offered these suggestions as
unsolicited advice, and noted that it was ultimately up to the applicant if he wanted to make the
suggested changes. John Ghegan asked about the mural, to which Hans Tokke responded that
it has nothing to do with this application. The building owner may want a mural at a later date.
Mr. Luntz agreed that it was up to the applicant if they wanted to keep the sign as it was.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Sign Application, seconded by John Ghegan, and
the motion carried, unanimously, 5-0.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Discussion to alter zoning code to address an additional solar requirement for
residential developers.
Chairman Luntz stated that it was brought to his attention that the Village wants to adopt the
New York State Stretch Energy Code. One of the provisions of the Stretch Code is to mandate
new homes be built solar ready. There are other aspects to the code, it is an extra few steps
and costs money, but Mr. Luntz believes that making new homes solar ready is a solid
suggestion. Mr. Luntz points out that requiring new homes to be built solar ready is smart as it
does not get any cheaper than doing it during construction and it is not too onerous. Mr. Luntz
estimated that it would cost less than $1,000.00 to make a new home solar ready. Dan
O’Connor reported that Butch Doran’s new build is solar ready and that is a sales advantage for
him. Steve Krisky says that he had solar panels installed on his home and he believes that this
added to his home’s value. Steve Krisky spoke to Steve Bluestone, a builder and former Croton
resident who is one of the authors of the stretch code, and Mr. Bluestone also stated that it was
a good thing. It will cost the builder a little more, the buyer will pick up the expense in the long
run, but they can make it back. Dan O’Connor says that there will be incremental costs in
adapting this new code, but it will mean better materials, and better quality. Steve Krisky would
like a requirement that new homes be built solar ready. The Planning Board is not advocating
for the stretch code, but Steve Krisky would like to build into the village code a requirement that
builders, both commercial and residential, review the viability of putting solar on their new
builds. Mr. Krisky realizes that this will not work for each new build, but he believes that there
should be some required process to review for viability. Mr. Luntz states that this will be a moot
point if the NY State Stretch Code is adopted by the Village, because when the plans come in
for new construction, they have to meet code. Geoff Haynes asks about implementation and
gave an example of Appendix CA 103 of the NY Stretch Energy Code 2020 which talks about
exceptions to the code. Mr. Luntz offered that he did not believe that the Planning Board would
need to make this determination. Mr. Luntz went on to say that a licensed professional engineer
or architect would determine if the building code required a builder to meet these criteria.
Regarding the Village adopting solar, Dan O’Connor states that the Stretch Code is a package
and that would be the easiest way for it to be approved. The Planning Board can make a
recommendation. Geoff Haynes is not ready to recommend adapting the Stretch Code as he
has not seen the whole thing. Adopting the Stretch Code will be on the Village Board ‘s Agenda
in May. Trustee Len Simon states that the Sustainability Committee found that New York State
2

will probably adopt the Stretch code next year but will offer incentives to communities that do it
sooner. The sustainability committee showed a power point presentation to the Village
Manager and a work session is scheduled for May 2, 2022. Steve Krisky will ask one of the
members of the sustainability committee to come to the next planning board meeting with the
power point presentation.
b) Referral from Village Board on Local Law Introductory 5 of 2022 to amend Chapter 230,
Zoning, of the Village Code to adopt provisions regarding cannabis shops, declaring the
Village as Lead Agent under SEQRA
Chairman Luntz asks to clarify the purpose of the Planning Board’s review of this proposed
amendment to Chapter 230 of the Village Code. As per Dan O’Connor, in addition to state
requirements that cannabis shops be 500 feet from schools and 200 feet from religious
institutions the proposed Village zoning code changes will require any cannabis, vape or
tobacco shops be located 500 feet from each other. It was confirmed that the NY State
Education Law includes Nursery Schools and Preschools. John Ghegan questioned if shops
that sold cigarettes, such as Shop Rite and gas stations, would count as a tobacco shop, and
after checking the Village Code, Dan O’Connor said, no, they would not as the shop would have
to primarily sell tobacco or vape products. Geoff Haynes clarified that the discussion was solely
about cannabis shops, not cannabis lounges.
Geoff Haynes made a motion that the Planning Board is in favor of Local Law 5 to amend
Chapter 230 of the Village Code, Zoning, to add provisions related to cannabis shops. Eva
Thaddeus seconded the motion, and it carried, unanimously, 5-0.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from February 22, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Chairman Luntz made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 22, 2022,
as amended, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.

5. NON-AGENDA DISCSSION ITEMS


Regarding the former hardware store on South Riverside Avenue, there is a discussion
between the Village Manager and the developer on the assessment of the property. The
town assessor gave an initial number that the developer believes should be lower.



Regarding the Katz property, the developer is waiting for the next round of financing.
The developers have agreed to 33 affordable housing units instead of the 29 affordable
units plus four market rate units originally proposed, which will give them more points
when going for funding. The developers were turned down in the first round of financing,
as they expected to be. They may hear in August if their application for financing has
been approved.
3



Metro North has a consultant to draw plans for solar canopies as they have the funding
for this project. Also, MTA can repurchase their land from the Village and there is
discussion regarding MTA buying back part of the train station parking lot.



Steve Krisky asked for an update on the two Piney Point properties (30 Piney Point Ave.
& 32 Piney Point Ave.) Dan O’Connor reported that building permits have been issued
for both sites so there should be construction activity shortly.



Steve Krisky asked if a landscape plan was received for the property located at 23
Nordica Drive. Dan O’Connor reported that he had not received one.



It was noted that there is activity on the large home near Skyview Nursing Home after a
long time.



Steve Krisky asked about an area south of Skyview Nursing Home on Albany Post Road
where it looks like a builder cut off tops of trees. Dan O’Connor says there is no
restriction to topping trees, but offered that he and Assistant Village Engineer Ron
Wegner could go out for a site visit. Mr. Krisky would like to advise the Village Board to
pass a law or make a recommendation regarding the topping of trees.

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:24 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

4

