                                   Village of Croton on Hudson
                            Minutes of Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
                                    Wednesday, March 9, 2022


Present: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
         Doug Olcott
         James Tuman
         Rocco Mastronardi
         Daron Weber

Also Present: Ron Wegner, Assistant Engineer P.E
              Len Simon, Village Board Liaison


1.      CALL TO ORDER:

Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on March 9, 2022 to order at 8:03pm.


2. OLD BUSINESS

          a)    Ozhuthual, Cyril, Homeowner —47 Olcott Avenue—Located in the RA-5 One Family
               Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
               Section 79.9 Block 9 Lot 7. Request for a height variance from Section 230-40(H)(2) for a
               6’ ft fence on top of a 10’ retaining wall.

          PRESENT: Cyril Ozhuthual, Homeowner (via phone)

Mr. Ozhuthual was unable to attend the meeting in-person and instead called into the meeting. The
applicant was placed on speaker phone with the Zoning Board. Chairperson Wagner stated that the
February 9th meeting, when the application was first heard was left open to the public so that site visits to
the property could be conducted. Chairperson Wagner asked the Board if they had questions regarding
the site visit. There being no questions from the Board, Chairperson Wagner turned the meeting to the
public. Hearing no comments on the application, Chairperson Wagner closed the public hearing.

The Zoning Board of Appeals discussed the 5 Factors:

            1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
               properties will be produced by granting the variance.

 The board discussed and agreed that the applicant had limited options as to what could be installed on top
of the retaining wall that would meet their safety concerns. It was also agreed that due to the sloping
nature of the property, the view of the fence from the street is not imposing nor offensive thus not having
a negative impact on the neighborhood.
                                                      1
            2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible
               for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.

It was discussed and agreed that the family’s concerns for safety are valid and that the 6’ft fence plays a
key role in addressing those concerns. The Board discussed and agreed that the benefit sought by the
applicant could not be achieved by another method.

            3. The requested variance is substantial.

The Zoning Board agreed that the 10’ft variance requested is substantial.

            4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
               environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

The Zoning Board agreed that the proposed height variance for the fence will not have an adverse effect
on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

            5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

The Board discussed and agreed that the difficulty was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a side yard height variance of 10’ft, seconded by Mr.
Mastronardi. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Tuman,
yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes and Mr. Weber, yes.


          b)    Hidalgo, Dayana, Tenant—380 South Riverside Ave—Located in a C-2
               Commercial District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-
               Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 2 Lot 25. Request for a side yard variance and
               rear yard variance from Section 230-35 for a shed.

        PRESENT: Dayana Hidalgo, Tenant

Chairperson Wagner began by stating that the public hearing regarding 380 South Riverside Ave was left
open to the public so that a site visit could be conducted. It was concluded that there were no additional
questions from the Board regarding the application. However, there was further discussion by the Board
about a concern over the aesthetics of the shed, specifically regarding the mis-matched paint colors and
how the fence looks in relation to the neighbor’s view. The Board discussed the varying colors from the
front of the shed (white) to a painted green/blue on the back of the shed that faces the neighbor’s
property. In order to resolve such concern, the Board asked Ms. Hidalgo if she could paint the rear of the
shed to match the front and sides of the shed. The applicant agreed to paint the shed.




                                                    2
Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer, addressed a question that was raised by the Board at the prior,
February 9th meeting regarding the application and how the shed was brought to the attention of the
Building Department. Mr. Wegner shared with the Board that the shed was initially noticed because of a
complaint regarding the property. The complaint, however, was in regards to another piece of equipment
on the property and not in regards to the shed. The Board thanked Mr. Wegner for the clarification.

Chairperson Wagner, asked the public if there was any comment on the application. There being no
comment, the hearing was closed.

It was noted that during the site visit on Monday, February 28, 2022 at 380 South Riverside Ave., Mr.
Weber and Mr. Wegner had the opportunity to speak with the neighbors regarding the shed. Mr. Weber
shared that the neighbors said they are fine with the presence of the shed. The Board discussed concerns
about the shed being monetized and that the owner should not receive rent or payment for use of the shed
and agreed such conditions should be made clear if granting the proposed variance.

The Zoning Board of Appeals discussed the 5 Factors.

                      1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
                         nearby properties will be produced by granting the variance.

It was discussed and agreed that the property is a commercial lot and the shed doesn't change the
environment of the property nor neighborhood.

                      2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
                         feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.

The Board reviewed the property setbacks and discussed other possible options as to where the shed
could have been placed on the property as well as alternative options for storage of the maintenance
equipment. However, after discussion it was concluded that the present shed was most feasible and agreed
that the benefit sought by the applicant could be achieved by alternative methods but not as effectively.

                      3. The requested variance is substantial.

The Board agreed the requested variance is substantial.


                      4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
                         or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

    1.   The Zoning Board of Appeals discussed and agreed that the variance will not have an adverse
         effect in light of the conditions set forth by the Board. Such conditions include: (1) That, the
         variance is granted based on the plans and other documents submitted in support of the application for a
         shed currently used and only to be used for storage of maintenance equipment and tools used to maintain
         the subject property. It cannot be used for chemical, fuel, or other storage that could be hazardous or
         related to auto repair. (2) That, the back of the shed will be painted either white or the same color of the
         existing sides of the shed.

                                                          3
                    5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

The Board discussed and agreed that the difficulty was self-created.


Following the Board’s discussion of the 5 Factors, it was pointed out that the application would require
further approval from the Village Planning Board because it is a commercial site and that Ms. Hidalgo
will also need to apply for a building permit once the application is approved by the planning board.


MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 3.9’ft and a variance of a 28.2’ft
rear yard setback subject to the conditions set forth by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Mr. Mastronardi
seconded the motion. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. Roll Call: Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr.
Mastronardi, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, and Mr. Weber, yes.


3. NEW BUSINESS

    a) Pendleton, Robin-6 Glengary Road-Located in the RA-40 One-Family Residential District and
       designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.13 Block 1 Lot 7.
       Request for a front yard variance from Village Code Section 230-33(A) for the legalization of a
       1953 addition.

        PRESENT: Joseph Arnow, Architect

Prior to his introduction, Mr. Arnow shared with Zoning Board that drawing T-003 of the materials
submitted to the Board is the most helpful to look at in reference to the variance being requested.

Mr. Arnow then began by formally introducing himself to the Board as the architect for Robin Pendleton,
owner of 6 Glengary Road who is requesting a variance to legalize an approximate 435 sq ft addition that
was built in 1953 without a building permit. Mr. Arnow explained that the 1953 addition encroaches on
the current front yard setback requirements. At the time of construction (1953), the front yard setback
requirement was 40’ft and the northeast corner of the addition encroaches on approximately 5.5’ft on the
front yard setback. Mr. Arnow further explained that the Town and Village property cards both indicate
the addition was done in 1953 and since then, the property has had several different owners before Ms.
Pendleton took ownership in 2016. Ms. Pendleton, at the time of purchase was unaware that the addition
was built without a permit and is now requesting a front yard variance to accept the 5.5ft encroachment
and begin the process of legalizing the existing construction. Mr. Arnow then stated several points in
support as to why the variance should be granted. Such points included that the addition has been in
existence since 1953 and therefore no undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor
detriment to nearby properties would occur. Mr. Arnow stated that the house which was originally built
in the 1930’s before zoning requirements existed and was built very close to the front property line.
Furthermore, the addition was built on the farthest area from the property line. Mr. Arnow stated that
Ms. Pendleton has no other option than to apply for a variance because the addition is pre-existing and
has been on the property for 70 years. Mr. Arnow pointed out that only a small portion of the addition
                                                    4
(appx. 39 sq ft) encroaches on the front yard setback. The addition was built in 1953 and the home was
purchased in 2016 and therefore the hardship was not self-created.

The Board asked the applicant for clarification on the application submitted. Mr. Arnow confirmed that
the requested variance is for 5.5’ft and therefore the setback is 24.5’ft, not 40 feet as written on the
application. It was then further noted that the variance request depends on how the application is
analyzed. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer, explained that when the addition was built, under
1953 code, the setback would have been 5.5’ft. However, the Board stated they were to analyze the
application under current zoning code therefore the request variance (setback) would be for 15.5’ft

The Board inquired as to why the variance application was taking place now after the structure has been
in existence for almost 70 years and the property has had several owners during that time frame. Mr.
Arnow explained that in the process of Ms. Pendleton selling her home, the buyer’s attorneys raised
questions in regards to the addition. Additionally, Ms. Pendleton, wanting to learn more about the history
of her home, went to the building department which revealed the addition was never legalized hence the
application for the variance. It was further clarified that this is the only portion of the house that needs
legalizing because while other parts of the house are close to the setbacks, the original structure was built
prior to 1931 which predates Village zoning code.

Chairperson Wagner then opened the meeting to the public and there being no comment, the hearing was
closed.

The Board discussed and agreed that they are largely aligned with the information set forth by the
applicant that supports the variance.

The Zoning Board of Appeals then further reviewed the 5 Factors:

                     1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to
                        nearby properties will be produced by granting the variance.

After the visual inspection of the property from the road the Board discussed and agreed that the oddity of
the lot and the curve in the road helps to conceal the addition from the front, making it appear as a rear
addition. The Board elaborated that as one approaches the house from the road, the addition is barely
visible because of the curve in the road in conjunction with the fence and land drop towards the addition.
The Board also made the point that after 70 years of silence, there is nothing to dispute.

                     2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method
                        feasible for the applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.

The requested variance cannot reasonably be achieved by another method feasible to the applicant as the
structure is already in existence.

                     3. The requested variance is substantial.



                                                      5
The Board discussed and agreed that the requested variance is substantial under current zoning code but
would not have been at the time the addition was originally built.

                    4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical
                       or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

The Board discussed and agreed that the addition has been in existence since 1953 therefore it will not
have an adverse effect on the environment and/or neighborhood.

                    5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.

The Board discussed and agreed that the difficulty was not self-created


MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a front yard variance of 15.5’ft. The motion was
seconded by Mr. Olcott. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Olcott,
yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes and Mr. Weber, yes.


4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve minutes from the February 9, 2022 meeting, Mr. Olcott
Seconded. All in favor. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner, yes,
Mr. Olcott, yes, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Weber, yes and Mr. Mastronardi, yes.

5. ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the Zoning Board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:48p.m.




Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie DeMattia, Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals




                                                    6
