Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee
June 22, 2021
Video Conference
AGENDA
ZOOM DETAILS
Time: June 22, 2021 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88339204018?pwd=SE9zWFEvVkR4SlQvVThWVnFCcEhZQT09
Meeting ID: 883 3920 4018
Passcode: 918955
+1 929 436 2866 US (New York)
Diversity & Inclusion page on Village website: https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversityand-inclusion-committee
MEMBERS: Chair: Leo Wiegman
Co-Chair: Maria Modica-Snow
Tsui Pappas
Amy Melman
Lisa Stefanoff
Michael Mui

Jessica Ganus
Aliyah Simpson
Justin Johnson

VILLAGE TRUSTEES:
Sherry Horowitz

1. Introduction and Opening Business
a. Health and Welfare check of members
b. Introduction of Guest, Gwen Sergeant, who told us a bit about herself and her career,
and then explained to us the work she is doing with the Ossining Chapter of the NAACP
with enrichment programs for children, teens and young adults. It was very interesting
and Gwen promised to keep us informed of her work. Thanks to Gwen for giving us her
time and speaking with us!
c. Leadership Transition - Leo & Maria are interim Co-Chairs pending appointment of
someone to each of these positions.
d. As Leo was not able to make this meeting, and few people were in attendance, we
discussed administrative challenges in keeping the Committee going. One issue was
the need for someone to take minutes of the meetings and then write them for
approval at our next meeting. Tsui Pappas agreed to do that. THANK YOU!
e. Discussions then took place regarding the following:
f. Our next meeting will be September 28, 2021. and everyone is urged to make an effort
to attend, as it will be an administrative re-structuring meeting.

g. Those in attendance in June agreed that the biggest issue is membership and
involvement of the members we already have. Very few of the “Groups, Liaisons and
Other Roles” always at the bottom of the agendas seem to have any meaning or
purpose. Maybe it is in part b/c of the pandemic, but these 2 months “off” will give
each of us a chance to evaluate the sub-committees of D&I so we can discuss what to
keep, what to change, what to discard. As one person said tonight, we need to be
concrete with our ideas.
h. How do we get our information to the community? How many people actually look at
our webpage on the Village site? E-blast? Currently we’re not allowed to have a
separate FaceBook page or any social media account.
i. How do we attract new members? Part of the answer is for us to do things publicly. A
discussion on that led to a discussion of potential initiatives, as listed below.
We discussed periodic events to be sponsored, monthly or 4 events/year sponsored and promoted throughout the community by D&I. In the past there were speakers, and there was a
great program in the Library presented by Historic Hudson Valley about Slavery in the North
(as in right here!) and co-sponsored by D&I. Ideas that were proposed at the meeting:
1. A Diversity Calendar Committee (with imagination) can do something once a month related
to any of the groups on the calendar for that month-a letter to the editor, a highlight of a local
business, whatever (which is where imagination comes in!)
2. We’re about diversity-does anyone know anything about Croton’s historical/past diversity?
That may be an interesting project to research and then maybe we can do something with it;
maybe it can be a source of info for #1.
3. Maybe we can sponsor a D&I Book Club, reading diverse authors, stories of diverse cultures,
etc.
4. Pre-pandemic we spoke about having a Diversity Fair-we all seemed excited about that, but
then…along came March 2020. This is something which will take a huge amount of advance
planning and needs a committee to work on it, but it will be a one-shot deal. Or maybe annual
if it’s a hit.
5. Sponsor something like a Diversity Business Crawl where residents can go from business to
business to find out more about it, maybe meet the owners, sample the food or products, etc.
6. We’re co-sponsoring the Lorraine Hansberry committee with the Arts & Humanities Committee to come up with ideas, proposals, methods of making more people aware of her and
the fact that she has connections to Croton. I don’t think we have anyone from our committee
actually on that committee, but we should, since we’re co-sponsoring it! (The idea came out
of the Discussion Group’s February meeting regarding the history and relevancy of “Black History Month”.)

2. Ongoing Activity Updates - NO REPORTS
a. Upcoming Monthly Celebrations/Recognitions
b. Discussion Group Updates
c. Schools Update
d. Croton Houses of Worship (CHOW)

e. Croton Free Library Update

3. Administration - NO REPORTS
4. Old Business - NO REPORTS
5. New Business - NO REPORTS
GROUPS, LIAISONS, AND OTHER ROLES
·

Discussion Group: Aliyah, Maria, Jodi, Sherry, John, Lisa, Michael
Mission/Purpose: To engage the community in expansive discussions on matters of anti-racism
and other forms of bias, inequality, and injustices.

·

School Liaisons Group: Aliyah, Maria, Michael, Sherry
Mission/Purpose: To ensure connectedness of ideas, attitudes, and actions between the school
bodies and the D&I Committee
Affordable Housing Liaison: Jessica
Mission/Purpose:

·

Book Recommendations Group: Amy, Tsui, Justin, Leo
Mission/Purpose: To provide thoughtful and provocative reading materials in connection with
promoting diversity, equity and inclusion – often in relation to the celebration of the month

·

Supervision/Strategy: Leo, Maria
Mission/Purpose:

·

Communications/Public Relations: Lisa, Sherry (?), other?
Mission/Purpose: To invite participation and promote D&I activities including Discussion
groups, Letters to the Editor, other PR, flyers, email lists, etc.

·

Charities and Non-Profits Liaison: Tsui
Mission/Purpose:

·

Website Liaison: Lisa Stefanoff
Mission/Purpose: Single point of contact for Bryan Healy relating to website updates- including
book lists, discussion group materials, statements, etc.

·

Police Reform Liaison: Michael Mui
Mission/Purpose:

·

New Member Recruitment and Onboarding: Maria;

Mission/Purpose:
·

Member Training and Education: Michael, _____
Mission/Purpose:

·

Houses of Faith Liaison: Justin
Mission/Purpose:

