Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee
MEETING: February 15, 2022
Video Conference
MINUTES
ZOOM DETAILS
Topic: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION MEETING
Time: February 15, 2022 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
Join Zoom Meeting
https://us04web.zoom.us/j/78597714616?pwd=VFNMUVFkQnkyYWIycGdmNEpFeGtLUT09

PLEASE NOTE LINK IS FOR THIS MEETING ONLY

Diversity & Inclusion page on Village website: https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversityand-inclusion-committee
MEMBERS:
Resigning Chair: Maria Modica-Snow
Amy Melman
Jessica Ganus
Michael Mui
Tsui Pappas
Justin Johnson

Nancy Libow
Ratna Bindra
Jose (Joe) Gonzalez
Kat Randel (temp inactive)
Kenna Weiner
Geoff Hamilton

VILLAGE TRUSTEES:
Sherry Horowitz

1. Introduction and Opening Business
a. Health and Welfare check of members
b. Introduction of guests, if any: Kenna Weiner, Geoff Hamilton
2. Administration:
a. Leadership Transition: Geoff Hamilton was introduced as a potential new
member, and has offered to take on the Chair position while the Committee is
restructuring. He will contact the Mayor and other relevant village employees and we
will wait to see what is decided.
b. Approval of minutes of Jan 19, 2022. Motion by Michael, 2nd by Tsui,
unanimously approved.
3. Committee Reports:



A mention of the Diversity Calendar brought on extensive discussion about what to add
(ie Lunar New Year, how to choose which celebration to choose for any given month
and various options of recognition. Regarding the possible addition of the Lunar New
Year celebration, it was noted that this would have been a particularly interesting year
for D&I to acknowledge the celebration as it is the Year of the Tiger! Go Croton
Tigers! Sherry & Tsui had worked on a recognition piece, but were not able to have it
posted on time.
Ratna: she will contact the HS about their student activism groups and she will serve as
this Committee’s liaison with the schools.




Maria: report on Discussion Group’s February session regarding the video “Let’s Grow”
which will be re-shown on Feb 23; all are encouraged to attend;
Kenna: gave an intro to the upcoming Discussion Group on March 1st regarding the 1619
Project; suggestions were made as to how to further publicize this as everyone agrees it
is an important book and an important discussion.
4. Old Business:
Lengthy discussion took place regarding a new mission statement, its importance and
how to best draft one. It was decided that each of us (including those who missed the
meeting) should put out thoughts down on paper as to what we think the mission should
be, or what we expected the committee to be. Those ideas should be emailed to Geoff
Hamilton by March 7; he will collate them, and create a framework for the mission
statement, which can be discussed at the next meeting on March 15th. It was suggested
by Joe Gonzalez to also include why we joined and what we hope to get out being on
this committee so that potential members have a clear understanding of what we are
about.

5. New Business:

There was talk of an in-person get together in the near future. Last year we
scheduled one at Senasqua Park, and even though it was a small turnout, those of us
who were there enjoyed meeting in person!
Meeting adjourned 8:30PM

