Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee
November 2021
Video Conference
MINUTES
***ZOOM DETAILS***
to be sent in separate email!!

Diversity & Inclusion page on Village website: https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversityand-inclusion-committee
MEMBERS:
Temporary Co-Chair: Maria Modica-Snow

Lisa Stefanoff
Michael Mui
Tsui Pappas
Maria Modica Snow

Jessica Ganus
Amy Melman
Justin Johnson

VILLAGE TRUSTEES:
Sherry Horowitz

1. Introduction and Opening Business (5min)
a. Health and Welfare check of members
b. Introduction of potential new members/guests: Nancy Libow, Kat Randel, Beth
McFadden.
c. Leadership Transition
Maria has agreed to serve through the end of this year. Discussion is needed as to the
future of the Committee - how to continue if no one steps forward.
d. Approval of minutes of Sept 28, 2021 – unanimously approved.
2. Administration (5-10 min)
a. Committee Membership: Required Training – every one needs to take the classes
annually, and everyone should have received an email from Paula DiSanto about live
classes on Oct. 13 or on-line. Word is that it is easier in person than taking the course
on-line.
b. Review of received email communications (Lisa) None to report.
3. Committee Reports
a. Discussion Group (Lisa, Maria 5min) Discussion Group is Oct 27 th – Report was well
researched and received well about Italian-Americans, Christopher Columbus and the
history of Columbus Day.

b. Sherri brought up the mission of helping new refugees resettle by Ossining for Refugee
group which she can be liaison for any committee members interested in getting
involved. There will be Afghani refugees setting in Westchester soon possibly in
Yonkers/White plains areas.

4. Old Business (10-15 min)
a. Maria recap the need for new leadership by outlining the following:
- Co- Chair duties include running meetings
- Need for a person to do the IT portion of setting up zoom meeting and
following up on email correspondence
- Taking minutes for the meeting
Regarding the future of the committee, Lisa and Maria have committed to continuing in
their roles until the end of the year. After that, hopefully there will be someone in
leadership and IT, and it was suggested that the Discussion Group take place every
other month and the same with D&I meetings, or they can be held as needed when a
sub-committee has a report to make.
b. Lorraine Hansberry initiative: We will host/sponsor an organizational meeting for
any community member who is interested in working on this. The meeting will
tentatively be held Oct 28, 2021, via zoom from 730-8:30PM. We will first email those
people who have expressed an interest since Feb 2021 to make sure this date will work
for them. Once a final date is chosen, we will ask the Village to send out an e-blast and
publicize it. Any committee members interested please make it know. Hopefully Arts
and Humanities committee can be part of this initiative
c. Discussion continued on how to get new members, and a consensus was
reached that perhaps we need to take the initiative for a program, like the
Lorraine Hansberry project, and allow non-members to work with at least one
member (or alternating members) as a Task Force/ad hoc committee/Project
Team, etc. In that way not only will we get some of our ideas completed, but
we will have a presence and attract members/co-workers. There are likely
many people who will be interested in something, but may not want the
responsibility of being member, ie meetings, required classes, etc.
d. Amy expressed the large amount of work required to review and come up with
the list of book recommendations and perhaps there could be a new way going
forward for the Library to be involve that is less work intensive.
e. Social note There will be a holiday get together at the Tapsmith Sec 22. 2021
from 7-8PM.
5. New Business -

A. New initiatives-Sherry Horowitz, “Let’s Break Bread Together”
B. Discussed perhaps having 4 events a years such as: Diversity Fair; Diversity
Crawl, diverse businesses/owners; 4 major events a year; D&I Book Club.
Research history of different cultures in Croton; we jave flags for Veterans, how
about for other notable people who have/had ties to Croton?
C. Discussed that it would be nice for another village trustee in lieu of
John be
added to the committee – Sherri can do outreach to see if new trustee would
be interested in participating
D. The update of the School Equity Stakeholder meeting and agenda was very
Informative.
Group discussed the importance for a school liaison and more possible student
engagement and perhaps a student member that can receive choose credit to
be a member of the committee.
E. Entire committee was in agreement that the recruitment of members and
establishing leadership is important- Jessica suggested perhaps a flyer in local
business and schools could be helpful to get the word out.
Meeting adjourned 8:30PM

