Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee
April 27, 2021
Video Conference
MINUTES

Diversity & Inclusion page on Village website: https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversityand-inclusion-committee
MEMBERS: Present, Not present
Chair: Leo Wiegman
Co-Chair: Maria Modica-Snow
Tsui Pappas
Amy Melman
Lisa Stefanoff
Michael Mui

Jessica Ganus
Aliyah Simpson
Justin Johnson

VILLAGE TRUSTEES:
Sherry Horowitz
Guests:
Alex Jacob Dyer, Chair,
Valerie Leis, member, Arts
& Humanities Committee

1. Introduction and Opening Business
a. Health and Welfare check of members
b. Introduction of new members / guests.
c. Leadership Transition: Leo and Maria are serving as chair and co-chair in the interim
and seeking replacements soon.
d. Adoption of minutes of prior meeting: February minutes approval at attached below.
2. Ongoing Activity Updates.
a. Upcoming Monthly Celebrations/Recognitions
February

African-American History Month

March

National Women’s History Month, Irish-American Heritage Month
and National Deaf History Month (March 13 to April 15)

April

Diversity in Action Month https://dignityandrespect.org/april-is-diversity-month/

May

Asian Pacific-American Heritage Month, Older Americans Month

and Jewish-American Heritage
June:

Gay & Lesbian Pride Month and Juneteenth (June 19)

September:

National Hispanic-Latino Heritage Month (September 15 to October 15)

October:

National Disability Employment Awareness Month and National
Italian-American Heritage Month

November:

National American Indian Heritage Month

December:

International Migrants Day (December 18)

https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sites/g/files/vyhlif441/f/uploads/may_18th_res_782020_diversity_recognition.pdf
b. Arts & Humanities Committee: We were joined by two guests from the Village’s new Arts
and Humanities Committee (Alex Dyer, chair and Valerie Leis) to discuss collaboration in
forming a community wide committee to celebrate Lorraine Hansberry and her contributions to Croton and how that can be memorialized to put both Lorraine Hansberry and Croton “on the map”. The idea was suggested by one of the participants in the February Discussion Group regarding the history and relevancy of Black History Month, suggestions and
ideas came up, Trustee Liaison Sherry Horowitz brought it up at a Board work session, and
Mayor Pugh suggested we confer with Arts & Humanities. Alex and Valerie graciously accepted our invitation to attend this meeting.
i. Lorraine Hansberry lived in Croton, has a date of birth of May 19, 1930 and is
buried at Bethel Cemetery. Cornelia Cotton and Gwen Sargent have planned a
memorial gathering at her grave on the anniversary of her birth May 19, which
would have been her 91st birthday.
ii. Could we get the rights to show the film adaptation of “Raisin in the Sun” at the
library or elsewhere, such as at Gouveia Park?
iii. Contact participants from prior (e.g. February 2021) discussion groups interested
in honoring Ms. Hansberry.
iv. Also, we will coordinate with the Croton Free Library director, Jesse Bourdon,
about reading resources. Jesse is in touch with the estate and literary trust of Ms
Hansberry.
c. Discussion Group Updates (Maria, Lisa, Aliyah, Michael, Sherry)

(1) Last month the Village of Croton's Diversity and Inclusion Committee met
on March 16 via zoom and held a conversation with community members that delved
into systemic racism, a pervasive construct of oppression that has been so finely
threaded throughout this country's cultural fabric that many question that it exists at
all. The disucssion was titled “What is systemic racism? Is it real, and why should it matter to me?”
In advance of the discussion, the Committee recommended reading/viewing a number
of videos and articles which can be found on our website, as can resources from all
prior meetings.
(2) On April 22, the group will discussed “The History of Race”.
As a prelude to future discussions on the complex topics of systemic racism, we went
back in time to the origins of race, a social construct, and the history of our governmental systems - the how and the why and how they are connected.
While watching a video by the author or The Birth of a White Nation, we discussed issues raised in the film, as well as the “science” and genetics of race, and how our history and the founding principles of the United States ultimately created a platform for
systemic racism which impacts us all today.
Recommended readings and videos can be found on our web page.
All member of D&I are encouraged to attend future meetings!
(3) For May, our Discussion Group will take place May 26 (Wednesday).
(a) We plan a presentation on Asian-Pacific American Experience (Michael Mui &
Tsui Pappas).
(b) The theme will be personal stories of growing up Asian-American
(4) For June, our Discussion Group will take place June 24
(a) We plan a presentation related to Pride Month
(b) The theme will be Experiencing LGBTQ with children and led by Lisa
Stefanoff.
d. Schools Update (Aliyah, Maria)
● Hendrick Hudson District: No update, need to identify a liaison to Hen Hud schools.
● No update.
e. Croton Houses of Worship (CHOW) (Justin)
● No update.
f. Croton Free Library Update: (Amy)
i. The book/resource recommendation and publication process is working fine.

g. Other Sub-Committee / Liaison updates?
3. NEW BUSINESS (30 minutes)
a. Text of statement D&I Committee recommended to the Village Board of Trustees
(Sherry):
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson feels compelled to stand up and state its condemnation of the escalating verbal abuse and vicious, physical assaults on the
Asian American and Pacific Islander community, leading to the tragic killing
of 8 people, 6 of Asian descent, in Atlanta, Georgia on March 16, 2021.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson also feels compelled to acknowledge and
identify by name, all targeted, scapegoated and victimized populations, including, but not limited to: African Americans, Muslims, Jews, Native Americans,
Hispanics, immigrants, women, the LGBTQ community and the differently
abled.
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson believes unequivocally that all human beings
deserve to live in peace, and rejects bigotry, ignorance and hate, in all of its
forms. The Village promotes and appreciates the richness of a diverse community. It remains ever committed to its mission of creating an inclusive environment where all people are accepted and respected by virtue of their intrinsic
humanity, and where all people can contribute their unique and special gifts
for the benefit of the entire community.
We decided to forward this in the form of a resolution to the Village Board of Trustees for consideration and potential adoption. [[ It was adopted at the Village Board Meeting on ____.]]
4. Administration (10 mins)
a. Committee Membership: Required Training
b. Review of received email communications (5 mins) (Lisa)
c. Set next Monthly Meeting date:
i. 4th Tues of each month for the D&I General Meeting, next month: May 23, 2021.
(We missed March)
d. Set next Discussion Group date:
i. Next month: date set for Wednesday MAY 26th, 7 pm, (generally 4th Thursday of
each month, but Wed for this month) for the D&I Discussion Group.
e. Other business:
i) Committee members’ bios for webpage: Set a deadline to collect info? (Tsui Pappas)
(1) Tsui will share the drafts as a Google doc and edit to include current committee
members.

ii) Call for presenters (Lisa)
iii) Setting goals for the D&I acitivities:
(1) Can we develop some simple, quantifiable metrics to report on a regular basis?
(2) How many participants in our Discussion Groups?
(3) How many books/resources recommended? How many hours (# Participants *
length of Discussion Groups) of community engagement have we fostered (that
would NOT have occurred with us)?
iv) (See some drafts below, as a starting point for next month.)

