Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING: January 19, 2022
Video Conference
MINUTES
ZOOM DETAILS
Topic: DIVERSITY & INCLUSION ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Time: Jan 19, 2022 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
Join Zoom Meeting
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88915110884?pwd=dERGeDlDYVlrWU5pMUlNdm5nbm1Zdz09
Meeting ID: 889 1511 0884
Passcode: 503872
+1 929 436 2866 US (New York)

Diversity & Inclusion page on Village website: https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversityand-inclusion-committee
MEMBERS:
Resigning Chair: Maria Modica-Snow
Tsui Pappas, Resigned Sec’y
Amy Melman
Jessica Ganus
Michael Mui
Justin Johnson

Katherine (Kat) Randel
Nancy Libow
Ratna Bindra
Jose (Joe) Gonzalez
Kenna Weiner, guest

VILLAGE TRUSTEES:
Sherry Horowitz

1. Introduction and Opening Business
a. Health and Welfare check of members
b. Introduction of new members / guests: Kat, Nancy, Ratna, Joe/ Kenna
c. Leadership Transition
Maria is interim Chair until the end of December. The Mayor sent out a notice for new
members for a number of committees, but we need to decide how to proceed if no one is
willing to take on a leadership position. Lisa Stefanoff has also resigned her position
and membership, so her role(s) also need to be filled. Kat Randel had agreed to take on
Lisa’s role; they have been in communication and Kat hosted the meeting. In addition,
she agreed to take on the chair position. Welcome aboard!
***Sadly, due to unexpected circumstances, Kat Randel notified us later that she will be
unable to fulfill these roles, and she hopes to rejoin us later this year.
d. Approval of minutes of Nov 10, 2021. Approved unanimously.
2. Discussion of “Groups, Liaisons and Other Roles” took place.
For information, we have received Village approval to open up the sub-committees
to the community. This has been done with the Discussion Group and the Lorraine
Hansberry (sub- or ad hoc) Commitee We can provide the ideas and leadership and
ask for assistance from our community.










Nancy volunteered to work on book recommendations to coincide with the Diversity
Calendar, a copy of which is on our section of the Village website.
Maria agreed to put her in touch with Amy who has done it in the past.
Ratna volunteered to be the liaison with the HS student groups and other potential
connections with the school/s.
Kenna, who will be working with Deslyn Dyer on a Discussion Group regarding the
1619 Project, asked if they could facilitate over 2 months, so they will do that in March
& April.
Joe stated that he needed some background on the group, what is its purpose, does it
have a mission statement, etc.
Amy, who was not able to attend, informed us that she is interested in working on a
Diversity Fair.
Kat added that we should know who we are strategically, how we will work together and
suggested we have an annual calendar of meetings for both the D&I Committee and the
Discussion Group. A discussion took place on dates and it was decided that we would
plan on the 1st Tues of every month for the Discussion Group and the 3rd Tues for the
D&I Committee meeting.

3. Plans moving forward (Old and New Business)
 It was decided that right now we should work on the suggestions made by Joe & Kat and
then focus on actions.
 A running list of suggestions carried over from prior members are as follows:
o Continuation of the Discussion Group (Maria, Michael and Trustee Sherry have
been on that sub-committee, but open to others)
o Continue the Lorraine Hansberry initiatives (Sherry and Maria, open to others,
currently about 15 residents on board)
o Diversity Fair
o Diversity Crawl
o Diversity calendar of “events” or recognition
o Liaison to businesses/owners
o We host 4 major events a year
o D&I Book Club
o Croton hangs flags for Veterans, maybe it can be done for other notable people
who have/had ties to Croton
o Suggestion of contacting local groups such as the NAACP, BLM and asking if
there is anything we can do to support them, and if not now, to please think of us
in the future
Meeting adjourned 8:30PM

