Croton-on-Hudson Diversity and Inclusion Committee
February 24, 2021
Video Conference
DRAFT MINUTES1
ZOOM DETAILS
Time: Feb 24, 2021 07:00 PM – 8:15 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada)
Diversity & Inclusion page on Village website: https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversityand-inclusion-committee
MEMBERS: Present, Not present
Chair: Leo Wiegman
Co-Chair: Maria Modica-Snow
Tsui Pappas
Jodi Epstein Hoefler
Amy Melman
Lisa Stefanoff
Michael Mui
Jessa Mittelman

Jessica Ganus
Kristen Mather de Andrade
Aliyah Simpson
Justin Johnson

VILLAGE TRUSTEES:
Sherry Horowitz
John Habib
Guests:

1. Introduction and Opening Business
a. Health and Welfare check of members
b. Introduction of new members / guests: We should clean up the email list to include
present members and omit former members.
c. Leadership Transition: Leo and Maria are co-chairs in the interim and seeking replacements soon.
d. Adoption of minutes of prior meeting: Both December and January meeting minutes
are finalized and will be sent to Village for posting. We do not have a requirement for
keeping and posting minutes, but are doing so to create a record of our activities and
goals to facilitate future development of the Committee’s programs and initiatives.

2. Ongoing Activity Updates.
a. Upcoming Monthly Celebrations/Recognitions
1 For clarity, the new content raised at this meeting is added to the agenda in bold face type.

February

African-American History Month

March

National Women’s History Month, Irish-American Heritage Month
and National Deaf History Month (March 13 to April 15)

April

Diversity in Action Month

May

Asian Pacific-American Heritage Month, Older Americans Month
and Jewish-American Heritage

June:

Gay & Lesbian Pride Month and Juneteenth (June 19)

September:

National Hispanic-Latino Heritage Month (September 15 to October 15)

October:

National Disability Employment Awareness Month and National
Italian-American Heritage Month

November:

National American Indian Heritage Month

December:

International Migrants Day (December 18)

https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sites/g/files/vyhlif441/f/uploads/may_18th_res_782020_diversity_recognition.pdf
We decided to push recognition activity for National Deaf History Month from March into
April. See notes below for Black History Month report etc.
b. Discussion Group Updates (Maria, Lisa, Aliyah, Michael, Sherry)
(1) Black History Month: Its origins, objectives and future. The discussion was held
2/10/21 with a good turnout and great discussion. For those of you who were
not able to attend, the suggested readings are posted and are worth reading.
(a) Report on Feb meeting, including new initiative that came up for ways for the
Village to commemorate any diverse heritages, in particular Lorraine Hansberry who lived here and is buried in Bethel Cemetery;
(b) We discussed outreach to the Village’s new Arts and Humanities Committee (Alex Dyer, chair) to collaborate on celebrating Lorraine Hansberry (and
other black authors). Sherry offered to contact Alex Dyer. Perhaps a joint
meeting of the A&H and D&I committees on this topic can be arranged.
Who will champion this effort?

(2) For March hoping to have a session.TBD. New permanent date will be 4yh Tuesday of the month; Fred Opie status (John H if he’s in attendance), and a call for
participation and facilitators. (Michael/Sherry/MMS/Aliyah(?)
(a) After discussion with Fred Opie, we decided to push his presentation to November to coincide with Croton Free Library’s annual fundraiser. Or will it
be the Lorraine Hansberry Free Library?! (e.g. Desmond Fish Library in Garrison, etc).
(b) For March, the Discussion Group will take place on March 16, 7pm via Village Zoom channel. Per Maria, the topic will be an overview of systemic
racism as background for a series across upcoming months of discussion
groups on more specific topics such as impact of systemic racism on economics & wealth distribution, education, housing, etc.
(3) For April, the tentative discussion topic will be “Racism, wealth and housing.”
(4) For May, we plan a presentation on Asian-Pacific American Experience
(Michael Mui). It is also Jewish-American Experience Month. We could have 45
minutes on former and 45 minutes on latter for this discussion group. We
should decide this by time of next month’s meeting.
c. Schools Update (Aliyah, Maria)
● Hendrick Hudson District: No update, need to identify a liaison to Hen Hud schools.
● No update.
d. Croton Houses of Worship (CHOW Justin)
● No update.
e. Croton Free Library Update: (Amy)
i. After the February 10 Black History discussion group, many additional suggestions for books to read came forward from participants leading, which is a
great outcome. Amy’s team at the Library prepares a vetted list of recommended titles organized by audience (Adult, Young Adult and Children), focusing chiefly but not exclusively on non-fiction. They carefully review suggestions
and write a short capsule summary of each title on the list that is published in
advance of the Discussion Group date.
ii. In order to accommodate additional suggestions from the participants, Amy’s
team will prepare a short “checklist” of criteria that those individuals should
meet in recommending a resource (they should have read it themselves; it
should be well researched, and truly a book or article the recommender really
likes.)

f. Other Sub-Committee / Liaison updates?
i. none
3. Administration (10 mins)
a. Committee Membership: Required Training
i. We think everyone has taken the training some one or two members who are 1
of the 2 hours shy of completion.
b. Review of received email communications (5 mins) (Lisa)
i. None.
c. Set next Monthly Meeting date:
i. CHANGING IN MARCH: to 4th Tues of each month for the D&I General Meeting,
next month: March 23, 2021.
d. Set next Discussion Group date:
i. Next month: date set for March 16 (3rd Tuesday). BUT Changing to 4th Thurssday of each month for the D&I Discussion Group in April (April 27, 7 pm) thereafter.
e. Other business:
i) Committee members’ bios for webpage: Set a deadline to collect info? (Tsui Pappas)
(1) Tsui will share the drafts as a Google doc and edit to include current committee
members.
ii) Call for presenters (Lisa)
(1) See Discussion Group topics above, April and forward dates need lead presenters.
4. NEW BUSINESS (30 minutes)
iii) Can we set goals/create measures to track success? Can each of the subcommittees/liaisons prepare a statement of its purpose and goals for the year?
(1) Can we develop some simple, quantifiable metrics to report on a regular basis?
(2) How many participants in our Discussion Groups?
(3) How many books/resources recommended? How many hours (# Participants *
length of Discussion Groups) of community engagement have we fostered (that
would NOT have occurred with us)?
iv) (See some drafts below, as a starting point for next month.)

GROUPS
●

Discussion Group: Aliyah, Maria, Jodi, Sherry, John, Lisa, Michael

Mission/Purpose: To engage the community in expansive discussions on matters of anti-racism
and other forms of bias, inequality, and injustices.
Goal: To provide discussions monthly.
●

School Liaisons Group: Aliyah, Maria, Michael, Sherry
Mission/Purpose: To ensure connectedness of ideas, attitudes, and actions between the school
bodies and the D&I Committee
Goal: Currently working with the CHSD on its Stakeholder Equity Committee created to discuss
means to ensure equality in social and educational experiences for Croton’s students and staff.

●

Book Recommendations Group: Amy, Tsui, Justin, Leo
Mission/Purpose: To provide thoughtful and provocative reading materials in connection with
promoting diversity, equity and inclusion – often in relation to the celebration of the month;
Goal: ____
Book Recommendation sub-committee and library staff roles vis a vis each other. (Amy & MMS)

LIAISONS
●

Website Liaison: Lisa Stefanoff
Mission/Purpose: Single point of contact for Bryan Healy relating to website updates- including
book lists, discussion group materials, statements, etc.

●

Charities and Non-Profits Liaison: Tsui, Jessica
Mission/Purpose: TBD

●

Police Reform Liaison: Michael Mui (Aliyah, Sherry)
Mission/Purpose: TBD
Report on this week’s Village meeting on Police Reform proposal.

●

Houses of Faith Liaison: Justin
Mission/Purpose: TBD

ROLES
●

Supervision/Strategy: Leo, Maria
Mission/Purpose: To provide structure for meetings, suggestions for growth and encourage new
initiatives.

●

Communications/Public Relations: Lisa, Sherry (?), other?
Mission/Purpose: To invite participation and promote D&I activities including Discussion groups,
Letters to the Editor, other PR, flyers, email lists, etc.

●

New Member Recruitment and Onboarding: Maria;

Mission/Purpose: Assist those who wish to join the Committee and guide them through the
process.
●

Member Training and Education: Michael, Jessica
Mission/Purpose: THIS IS SOMETHING THE COMMITTEE NEEDS TO DISCUSS AND IT SHOULD BE
AN ONGOING PART OF EVERY MEETING. WHAT ARE EACH OF US DOING TO EDUCATE
OURSELVES IN ANTI-RACISM, TO WORK TOWARDS EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY IN OUR
COMMUNITY? SHARE WHAT WE’RE DOING OR BE ASSIGNED SOMETHING?

5. Adjournment
Attachment: draft minutes from 1/27/21 monthly meeting.
Adjourned at 8:15 pm.

