Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
April 12, 2022 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Eva Thaddeus
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT: Chairman Robert Luntz
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Acting Chairman Steve Krisky called the Planning Board meeting of April 12, 2022 to order at
8:02 p.m.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Riverside Gas Inc.- 380 South Riverside Avenue (Sec. 79.13 Block 2 Lot 25) –
Application for Amended Site Plan for existing shed on commercial property
Dayana Hidalgo was present in support of the application for an amended site plan for the
existing shed on this property. Geoffrey Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing,
seconded by John Ghegan and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0, all in favor. Acting
Chairman Steve Krisky invited comments from the public. Being that there were no public
comments, Geoffrey Haynes made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by John
Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0.
Ms. Hidalgo was reminded of the conditions of the Zoning Board variance. Dan O’Connor said
that he or Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer, would go out to inspect the shed to make
sure that it was painted as per the conditions of the variance. Mr. Haynes made a motion to
approve the Amended Site Plan with the conditions detailed in the resolution, seconded by Eva
Thaddeus and the motion carried, 4-0.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Sklar, Diandra (Orchid & Elm, LLC) 36 Oneida Ave. (Section 79.13 Block 1 Lot 9)
Request for Change of Use from Office to Retail
Lorraine DeMaio, Rose Marie Melda, Diandra Sklar and Lisa Smith and are the four members of
the LLC and were present in support of this Change of Use Application. Orchid and Elm, LLC is
a small boutique that offers interior design services as well as a retail space selling reclaimed
furniture and handmade goods. Orchid & Elm will have limited hours, Thursday, Friday and
Saturday from 11:00 a.m.-7:00 p.m. and Sundays from 1:00 p.m. – 5:00 p.m. Steve Krisky
1

requested clarification regarding any work that will be done in the shop to determine if there
would be any ventilation issues and it was reported that the shop would be used as a retail
space, not a workshop. Orchid and Elm did already have a soft opening. The retail space is
352 square feet. The four LLC members will work in the shop in shifts of two and will have no
additional employees. They plan to park on the street, and not in the parking lot, and noted that
the bulk of their business will be on Saturday and Sunday, days that the other tenants of the
plaza are closed, so it was determined that parking would not be an issue. When asked about
signage, they reported that the new owner of the building is planning to make some exterior
upgrades, then do new signs, consistent in design, for the entire plaza which has several tenant
spaces. Right now, there is no external sign for this business, there is a window cling affixed to
the window. The Planning Board asked the Orchid & Elm, LLC members to reach out to the
landlord regarding a signage plan. The applicant or landlord should return to the Planning Board
within three months regarding the signage plan for the plaza. The signage plan application will
then be referred to the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment for their review and
recommendation. If after three months the landlord is not doing signage, or is non-responsive,
the applicant will submit a Sign Permit Application.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Change of Use Application for Orchid and Elm,
LLC, with the provision that the applicant or landlord will submit a Sign Permit application within
three months to be referred to the VEB for review. John Ghegan seconded the motion and it
carried, unanimously, 4-0.
4. OLD BUSINESS
a) Thornton, Jeff (Croton River Artisans) Request for Approval for Revised Sign Design –
7 Old Post Road South (79.5-001-54)
Jeff Thornton of Croton River Artisans was present to request approval for a Revised Sign
Design for Croton River Artisans. The Planning Board approved a Sign Permit Application for
this space at its last meeting, but Mr. Thornton proposed some minor changes that he submitted
via email. The VEB had an opportunity to view the changes and they were in agreement with
the revisions. Acting Chairman Krisky also said that he preferred this new sign. It was
determined that the size of the new sign is still within code.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Revised Sign Design for Croton River Artisans,
seconded by Geoffrey Haynes and it carried, 4-0.
b) Discussion to alter Zoning Code to Address an Additional Solar Requirement for
Residential Developers and Recommendation to Village Board on Adoption of NY
Stretch Energy Code
Bernie Yozwiak, Croton on Hudson resident and member of the Village of Croton on Hudson’s
Sustainability Committee, accepted the invitation to attend this Planning Board meeting and
shared a twenty-page power point presentation titled NY Stretch Code- 2020 Residential
Summary and FAQ that was prepared by the Croton on Hudson Sustainability Committee.
2

Geoff Haynes said that the presentation offered a useful overview. Steve Krisky wondered if the
Planning Board need to make a recommendation or take an action. Acting Chairman Krisky
recommended that the Planning Board members think about the information they received and
wait until Chairman Luntz is back to decide on an appropriate action. Mr. Haynes would like
more information on how this would apply to multi-unit apartment buildings, like the two projects
that the Village already has site plans for.
5. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from March 22, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of March 22, 2022, as
amended, seconded by Geoffrey Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0.
6. NON-AGENDA DISCSSION ITEMS
 Construction has started on the two new homes on Piney Point Ave.


Regarding the solar canopies at the train station, there is a delay with the design firm.
Last week’s meeting cancelled and will be rescheduled.



Steve Krisky asked for follow up on an area south of Skyview Nursing Home on Albany
Post Road where a builder apparently cut the tops off of some trees. Dan O’Connor
stopped by to inquire, but there was a gas leak in the area and Mr. O’Connor will have to
go back.



Steve Krisky asked about two tall narrow signs on the auto repair shop across from
Shop Rite. Mr. Krisky believes that they are unsightly. Dan O’Connor said that
businesses can put up temporary signs for up to 45 days to announce a grand opening,
but this business is open for more than 45 days, so Peter Anfiteatro will go and check it
out.



Regarding Half Moon Bay, they are waiting for the weather to improve to work on the
promenade. Regarding the main water meter, they plan to install a meter in each
individual unit. The Half Moon Bay Board will have a discussion to see if they can pave
the back of the property at the same time as the promenade. The Village will take over
southern half of the back of the property.

7. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:19p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
3

4

