3 A LP itt WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING

Tuesday, April 7, 2022 10:30 a.m.
Georgianna Grant Conference Room

PRESENT Ms. Ann Galelli, Chairperson
Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Len Simon

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer

1) Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of April 7th, 2022 to
order at 10:44 am

2) REFERRALS

a) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP) Consistency Review for a Memo from Westchester County seeking
coastal consistency for federal funding to build a 4x8 concrete slab and a five-
foot-wide trench to house the gas and electric pipes for a new generator adjacent
to the existing senior residential facility at 15 Mt. Airy Road, Croton on Hudson.

The WAC members reviewed the letter dated March 8, 2021 from Westchester County, Office of
Planning & Development and the memo, dated March 29, 2022 from the NYS Department of
State on the proposal for federal funding to build a 4x8 concrete slab and a five-foot-wide trench
to house the gas and electric pipes for a new generator adjacent to the existing senior residential
facility at 15 Mt. Airy Road, Croton on Hudson, NY.

There was no CAF submitted for this application.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the
memo attached.

MOTION: Mr. Greenbaum made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by
Mr. Simon and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Greenbaum made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting March 29, 2022,
seconded by Mr. Simon and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:52 a.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


Chairman
ANN GALLELLI
Members

STUART GREENBAUM
LEN SIMON

Croton-on-Hudson Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD

Village Engineer
Waterfront Advisory Committee DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building Secretary

One Van Wyck Street KAREN STAPLETON
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Village of

TO: Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees
FROM: Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE: Referral from the Village Board regarding Letter from NY State Department of State
requesting a LWRP Consistency Review for federal funding to build a 4x8 concrete
slab and a five-foot-wide trench to house the gas and electric pipes for a new
generator adjacent to the existing senior residential facility at 15 Mt. Airy Road, Croton
on Hudson, NY

DATE: April 8, 2022

On April 7", 2022, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced
referral for consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).
Based on the review of the application documents, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 3-0.

The WAC evaluated this application for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy
standards and conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further
explained and described in Section III of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies
in the LWRP and believe that the policies listed below are applicable to this application:

POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to
safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote
the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the
topsoil or results in earth movement.

POLICY 30B: Storage and disposal of all materials shall be monitored by the state to
assure there will be no discharge or leaching of materials into coastal waters.

The installation of the concrete slab, gas piping and electrical conduit will require soil
excavation. Sediment and erosion control best management practices should be used during
construction to prevent soil transplant to the storm drain system and waterways.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790
