MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Apr. 24, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Joel Gingold
Bernie Yozwiak
Dan Columbini
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:
Niall Kelleher

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: We again thank the Village for sponsoring our zooms.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants and projects
On 4/4/22, Bryan Healy signed NYSERDA’s revised contract for the Washington
firehouse solar rooftop grants. It then authorized work to begin. By 4/5/22, only Croton
Energy Group (CEG) had submitted a proposal. It was within our budget.
On 4/15/22, the NY PSC significantly increased the NY-SUN incentive that buys down a
project’s cost. Projects like our firehouse will now get $1.20/kWp (up from $.20/kWp).
Doing so should cut its cost by ~$37K. Regarding timing, “the Order directs NYSERDA
to file a revised NY-Sun Operating Plan no later than May 31, after which NY-SUN will
begin accepting project applications for the newly approved incentive blocks.” Lindsay
will take a webinar on May 10 to get more details.
Since we already have enough grant money for the project, that “bonus” may be used
for other NYSERDA-approved projects, e.g., another municipal EV or more public EV
chargers. See below for further discussion.
On 4/5/22, Bryan Healy signed the contract for the firehouse heat pump controls. On
4/13/22, NYSERDA authorized work to begin. Jon is securing a refreshed proposal from
Carey & Walsh that includes prevailing wage. If under $20K, no RFP is required.
- EV and HP Campaigns
Another new Croton resident emailed to say he is soon getting a Tesla, and will provide
that data to become our 6th EV purchase since 1/4/22.
On 4/22/22, we got our first ASHP purchase via a NextDoor.com posting. Our HP blurb
was posted at our page on 3/2/2022. Eblasts will start the week of May 2. An article on
our effort will appear in the River Journal. As a HP owner, Jon is being interviewed for it.

1

On 3/4/2022, Dan O’Connor stated that building permits are not required for either
ASHPs or HPWH, so his office has no data about them. Permits are required for
GSHPs, but none have been installed in Croton since our campaign kickoff date
(1/4/2022). Elsewhere in the County, GSHPs accounted for ~½ of the HP installations.
Sustainable Westchester (SW) said that since June 2021 its contractors had installed 8
HP systems in Croton. It was asked to provide data for after 1/4/2022.
Jon and Dan mentioned that 3 new homes were going up on Wells Ave. Jon saw a HP
being installed in at least 1 of them. Dan will ask around for more info, and Jon will
check the builder’s yard sign so we may inquire regarding which homes are getting HPs.
- New Funding Sources
Len reported on a federal program (Community Project Funding [CPF]) from which
Cohoes (Albany suburb) got $3 million for a 3.2 MW floating PV system atop its
municipal reservoir. CPF is a competitive process for federal earmarks via infrastructure
funding for public works projects. Len said the Village is already looking to CPF to fund a
roadway renovation project. He suggested that an energy project between $250K and
$500K would be best to pitch during the next CPF funding round in early 2023. The
Village would likely need to provide some matching funds (maybe ~25%). One option
could be to cover some of the cost for canopy water management at the train station.
- Other Solar Projects
Train station canopies – This project will not benefit from the new NY-SUN incentives
because it already locked in the more valuable “community credit”. The 50% drawings
(needed for permits, charger siting, etc.) are slightly delayed. We now expect them by
the week of 4/28/22. In early May, a survey of underground utilities (using groundpenetrating radar) will be done in stages for the entire parking lot west of Veterans Plaza.
Croton Landing Park canopies – It’s now clear that we can’t get the exemption before the
end of the present legislative session. However, we should be well positioned to do so
during the 2023 session. To that end, a variety of actions are in process.
- On 3/24/22, our Assembly rep (Sandy Galef) submitted a bill (A.9746) requesting
exemption for Croton Landing, but it lacks essential supporting documentation. Joel
explained that, for the bill to have any impact, it would have to pass before the close of
the legislative session which ends in June. A new bill will be needed for the 2023
session. A new sponsor will be needed since Galef is retiring later this year.
- Bryan Healy signed paperwork that allowed Ecogy to submit its CESIR application
to Con Edison. That study will likely take until June. He also reviewed with Brian Pugh if
the VB would accept the possibility of little or no leasing revenue. Len and Brian felt that
a revenue of at least $5K/yr was necessary to justify installation. That revenue is tied to
the size of the new NY-SUN incentives. As per Ecogy’s analysis, getting to ~$5K would
require at least a $2/W incentive. At present, the highest that may be secured for Croton
Landing is $1.70/W. If the project was downsized to 200 kWp (from 430 kWp), it would
2

be $1.90/W, yielding ~$2K/yr. If (as hoped) the VDER Environmental benefit (~3¢/kWh)
is raised, that could get us closer to $5K. If Build Back Better is resurrected and returns
the Investment Tax Credit (ITC) to 30%, that alone could yield over $5K/yr. We’ll have a
better grasp of all this by early June when the dust has settled on those issues.
- Bryan Healy determined that the Village will need a professional appraisal of the
“alienated” property at a cost under $2,500. It’s not yet clear if that property would
include only two narrow strips of land where the canopy support pillars would be located,
or if we can get away with just the area where the pillars touch the ground, or if we must
also include area above underground power lines that will need to be installed.
- As NYPA worked with the State Parks Dept. on several details, the latter found
that some parcels of the Park were secured via federal or State funding. Len is looking
for a map to see if any involve the “alienated” areas. If so, we may have to secure
permissions from other agencies. Len is also securing a copy of Yorktown’s Home Rule
request to see if we could use it as a template for our own version.
- NYPA found that it could not speak with legislative personnel until an internal
NYPA review of such communication allowed it do so. They agreed that Bryan Healy
could instead seek answers to several questions on the exemption process. [On 4/25/22,
he emailed them to Michelle Milot, legislative aide involved in alienation exemptions.]
- On 3/28/22, Lindsay met Frank Balbi at the Park to plot out canopy drainage.
Existing in-ground grates and drains are sufficient so only residential-grade gutters and
downspouts will be needed. No drains exist at the unpaved boat landing parking lot, so
downspouts will instead be connected to a perforated PVC pipe that spreads the water
along an adjacent land strip. Snow guards will only be needed above the paved area.
- EV/EVSE
The $37K NY-SUN “bonus” could be used to pay for more public EV chargers such as
those slated for the train station, or to buy a 4th municipal EV. Using it for chargers could
leverage a Con Ed charger infrastructure incentive, but would entail installing many that
could go unused for several years. After an extensive discussion, the committee agreed
to instead offer the money toward a new police EV already in the Village’s upcoming
budget. [Bryan Healy subsequently indicated that would be fine and that the timing to
receive the funds, i.e., by mid-summer, would work for the Village.]
Purchase by the school district of a second EV bus (a mini-bus) fell through due to loss
of a $60K voucher when NYSERDA changed its scrappage rules (the existing diesel bus
is too “young” to qualify). The district will instead buy another diesel mini-bus.
C100 will run its next EV show at the entrance to Senasqua Park on Earth Day. We will
again provide our EV flyers for that event.
- Stretch Code

3

On 3/22/22, Dan O’Connor and Ron Wegman took a training class on Stretch. Based on
advice from nearby towns that already adopted it, Bernie informed Dan that extra
inspections in the Code would be done by third party inspectors, not Village staff.
Several interactions with the Planning Board (PB) occurred. At its 3/22 meeting, Dan
O’Connor overviewed Stretch. On 4/12, Bernie showed the PPt. slides, and reviewed
Stretch’s requirements to ready new homes for solar panels and EV chargers. Bernie
sent PB members analyses on the minimal cost impacts of Stretch on residential and
commercial buildings. At its 4/26 meeting, Jon will expand the discussion using the Ppt.
show and seek a PB resolution supporting Village adoption of the Stretch Code.
Next steps include prepping for a May 3 VB work session to review the matter. It will set
a date for the required public hearing (possibly May 9 or 23) and a date (possibly June 6)
for a resolution approving timely adoption of the code to meet the June 30 deadline. Len
will work with Dan O’Connor to draft that resolution.
- Other Reports
Dan will be performing a walk-through at the Washington firehouse to determine if
installing instantaneous DHW heaters could discontinue use of the existing indirect-fired
heater and allow summer shutdown of the oil-fired boiler. Summer fuel deliveries account
for over 200 gallons of oil being consumed mostly by line and DHW tank losses.
Joel reviewed a recording of a recent webinar on GridRewards for municipal accounts.
Last summer, Hastings got ~$13K for its accounts. The process is the same as for
residential accounts. [Bryan Healy said he will try it for some of our municipal accounts.]
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
On 4/4/22, Westchester Power updated the VB on its next power procurement. Due to
present volatility, it will seek a 5-month extension of its existing contract that ends Dec. 1.
In September, it will get bids for a new contract. It also asked the VB to sign a doc that
would allow the CCA price to rise as high as 13.5¢/kWh. The previous limit was 12.5¢.
Recent fixed price offerings by local ESCos ranged between 11 and 12¢/kWh.
Preparations are complete for our Earth Day tabling. Four types of flyers will be
available, along with several table placards/displays. Staffing schedule will be:
9:30-11: Lindsay & Joel (setup starts at 9:30, event starts at 10)
11-noon: Jon & Joel
noon-1: Joel & Adlin Hadad
1-2: Bernie & Adlin Hadad
2-3: Dan & Lindsay
- New Business / Other Issues
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, May 22 at 10:30 AM via zoom.
4

