REVISED Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
April 26th, 2022 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT:

Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of April 26, 2022 to order at 8:02 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Croton Yacht Club– 6 Elliott Way (78.8-1-3) Application for Amended Site Plan Approval
for Modifications to Existing Rear Deck and Proposed open-air awning on three sides of
the building
John Powers, architect, was present in support of this application to make alterations to the
existing deck to facilitate the installation of an awning on three sides of the Croton Yacht Club.
Robert Luntz asked what materials would be used and John Powers reported that the entire
deck will be refurbished with pressure treated wood. The deck has had some damage over the
years from weather, particularly Superstorm Sandy. The roofing material is corrugated metal.
Mr. Luntz drove down to take a look at the Croton Yacht Club and thinks that the improvements
will be good. Mr. Powers reports that there are currently awnings in place that are flimsy,
lightweight and have no architectural relationship with the existing clubhouse. The proposed
awning will be on three sides of the building and will cover the two entrances and exits. The
Croton Yacht Club has applied for and received a Zoning Board variance for these proposed
improvements. The awning support will be independent of the deck support and will rest on
footings and posts that are in between posts of the existing deck.
Geoffrey Haynes attempted to recuse himself from the vote being that he was a former member
of the Board of the Croton Yacht Club, but Steve Krisky reported that, based on his knowledge
from taking classes on the subject, Mr. Haynes was not required to recuse himself.
Mr. Haynes made a motion to call for a Public Hearing for the Amended Site Plan and Wetland
Application at the Planning Board’s next scheduled meeting on May 10th, 2022, seconded by
Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 5-0.

1

b) Allure Auto Spa – 351 South Riverside Ave. – (79.13-1-64) Application for Amended Site
Plan Approval to add garage door to rear of building and reconfigure traffic flow for one
way flow
Christopher Munoz, co-owner and operator of Allure Auto Spa was present in support of this
application to add a rear garage door to the Auto Spa in an attempt to create an improvement in
traffic flow. As it is right now, space is tight for cars entering and exiting the premises.
Landlords John & Fay Pappas sent a letter stating that they were aware of and okay with the
proposed improvements. Robert Luntz paid a visit to the Auto Spa to see the site. Mr. Luntz
noted that the back parking lot is underutilized. The applicant had proposed removing the
landscape island in front of the property to gain another parking spot, but Mr. Luntz would
advocate that the landscape island remain. Mr. Luntz would to see more greenery, not less. It
was determined that the Village Engineer would look into whether or not they could have access
to another parking space. The applicant was amenable to the suggestions and stated that he
planned to put greenery on the left side of the property. Geoff Haynes asked about the flow of
the business. The applicant reported that a regular car wash takes 25-30 minutes. A hand
wash takes longer, so they try not to do hand washes on the weekends when the spa is busier.
There is a waiting room with seats where customers can wait while their cars are being
serviced. Steve Krisky thinks that the proposal is a great solution to an obvious problem. Steve
Krisky asked about the collection method for water that is used in washing the cars. The
applicant reported that there is a trough drain with a filter that catches sediment. The Auto Spa
employees clean out the trough and the water flows into the sewer. Dan O’Connor noted that
the current owners of this property also own the properties on the north side of the Auto Spa. A
contingency plan would have to be made if one of the parcels was sold.
The applicant also submitted a Sign Permit Application. Robert Luntz believes that the VEB will
have a lot of comments and suggests that the applicant make improvements to the sign plan
and possibly consult with a sign company or design professional. The applicant asked if this
would slow down the approval for the garage door and the Planning Board stated that they
could approve the Amended Site Plan Application and have the applicant come back to the
Planning Board for Signage Approval. Geoff Haynes asks if the new signs will be solid
materials and the applicant said yes. The current signage lists prices, and the Planning Board
asks what will happen when prices change and the applicant says he would get new signs. The
Planning Board suggested maybe having signage with a list of services and a hand out with
prices, would be easier and less expensive than getting new signs. Steve Krisky offered to
share the name of a local designer who may be able to help. It was made clear that the
applicant could use any designer or sign company of his choice
Geoff Haynes made a motion to call for a public hearing for approval for the Amended Site Plan
Application at the next scheduled Planning Board Meeting on May 10th, 2022, seconded by
Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, unanimously, 5-0. It was agreed that the applicant should
submit a new sign plan before it is referred to the VEB.

2

3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Discussion to alter Zoning Code to Address an Additional Solar Requirement for
Residential Developers and Recommendation to Village Board on Adoption of NY
Stretch Energy Code
Rob Luntz is doing a few projects now that are subject to the NY State Stretch Energy Code.
Several local towns have already adopted this code, including Town of Cortlandt and Town of
Ossining. The Village of Croton will receive a benefit for adopting the code before it is
mandated. There are also obvious benefits to the environment, so the Planning Board
recommends that the Village Board adopt the NY State Stretch Energy Code.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from April 12th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Rob Luntz made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of April 12th, 2022, seconded
by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:57p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

