Village of Croton on Hudson
Minutes of Zoning Board of Appeals
Wednesday, April 13, 2022

Present: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
James Tuman
Rocco Mastronardi
Also Present: Ron Wegner, Assistant Engineer P.E
Absent: Doug Olcott
Daron Weber

1.

CALL TO ORDER:
Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting on April 13, 2022 to order at 8:03
p.m.

2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Croton Yacht Club, Tenant--6 Elliott Way --Located in the WC Waterfront Commercial
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.8 Block
1 Lot 3. Request for a rear yard variance from Village Code Section 230-38 for the alteration of an
existing rear deck and a proposed open-air awning on 3 sides of the building.

PRESENT: John Power, Architect
Chairperson Wagner welcomed all present at the meeting and invited the applicant, Mr. Power,
architect and representative for the Croton Yacht Club forward. Mr. Power began by stating that
the Croton Yacht Club would like to install an awning on 3 sides of the clubhouse building. Mr.
Power explained that the yacht club has an existing deck of which has many issues and is in great
need of correction and repair. Mr. Power further explained that the present deck was built on an
angle and is not conducive to building an independent structure (the awning) on top of it. The
applicant stated the first step in the process would be to alter and rebuild the deck so that it aligns
with the clubhouse. Mr. Power explained that the new deck would extend slightly toward the river
(in the rear) to achieve the proper alignment with the clubhouse. Mr. Power stated that the second
phase of the project would be to build an independent structure with footings for the awning. The
applicant explained that the current deck is very sunny and adding a three-sided awning would
increase the use of the deck, creating a greatly improved and more enjoyable dining experience for
its members and patrons.
Mr. Power further explained the reasons why the reconfiguration of the deck is necessary. Mr.
Power stated that because of the original placement of the clubhouse, the current deck was built
close to the bulkhead and seawall. Mr. Power shared that if following regulations and zoning code,
the current deck does not comply with the rear yard setbacks because of its proximity to the river.
1

Mr. Power explained that the requested rear yard variance will allow for one corner of the deck
(southern corner) to slightly extend into the rear yard setback and the opposite corner would be cut
back in order to square off the deck.
The Board then asked Mr. Power for clarification on the type of awning, whether it would be cloth
or solid. Mr. Power stated it would be a solid awning. Mr. Power then referenced the last page of
the plans submitted to the Board. The applicant explained that the last page shows the elevations of
the structure and that the plan is to not go any higher than the current parapet of the wall. The
applicant further explained because of the low slope of the roof and windy conditions of the river,
the preferred method is to install a metal awning because of its durability withstanding wind and
sun. Mr. Power stated that metal roofs can have a 1 to 12 slope as opposed to other types of roofs
such as shingle roofs that require an appx 2 ½ slope.
The Board elucidated that the current deck is parallel to the concrete walk but the proposed, new
deck would be parallel to the clubhouse. Mr. Power agreed and stated that the current deck relates
to the seawall but the new deck would relate to the structure (yacht club). It was then asked by the
Board if this application would need additional approvals. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer,
stated it would and that Zoning Board Approval is just the first step in the process. Mr. Wegner
shared that the yacht club would need to apply to the Planning Board for site plan approval as well
as go before the Village’s Water Control Commission or Waterfront Advisory Committee.
Chairperson Wagner asked if the Board had additional questions or comments. Hurricane Sandy
(2012) and its impact on the yacht club was raised as a discussion point. Club members in the
audience explained to the Board that during Sandy the deck was completely submerged and
resulted in severe damage to the clubhouse and deck. The members also shared that Sandy was just
one of many storms that impacted the deck and that it is in dire need of repair.
Chairperson Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application, the public
hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Review discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties
will be produced by granting the variance.

The Zoning Board discussed and agreed that the design of the awning and rebuilding of the
deck would be an improvement to the neighborhood and would have no negative impact on nearby
properties.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot reasonably be achieved by a method feasible for the
applicant to pursue other than the location proposed.
The Board agreed that the proposed project is the most reasonable and feasible approach to provide
protection from the sun while withstanding the windy conditions of the river. It was also discussed and
agreed that the deck needs to be squared off to build such an awning.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
The Zoning Board discussed and agreed that the 13.5’ft requested rear yard variance is substantial
but is mitigated by the river’s location at the rear of the property.

2

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental
conditions in the neighborhood or district.
It was agreed that there would be no negative effects on the environment and/or neighborhood.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

It was agreed that the difficulty was self-created.

MOTION: Chairperson Wagner made a motion to grant a rear yard variance of 13.5’ft for the
construction of an awning and deck consistent with the plans submitted to the Zoning Board of
Appeals. Mr. Tuman seconded the motion carried by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Olcott, absent, Mr. Weber,
Absent). Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the March 9, 2022 minutes, as amended, seconded by Mr.
Mastronardi, and carried by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Olcott, absent, Mr. Weber, Absent). Roll Call: Chairperson
Wagner, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes.

4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:14p.m.

Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

3

