MINUTES OF WATER CONTROL COMMISSION
Wednesday, September 22, 2021
PRESENT:
Mr. Stuart Greenbaum, Chairman
Mr. Mark Goldfarb
Mr. Leo Wiegman
Mr. Richard Wetherbee
ABSENT: Dr. Merrily Besvinick
ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
1.

Call to order

2.

REFERRAL
a) Sol Systems -- Veterans Plaza--Referral from Planning Board to Water Control
Commission for review and recommendation of a wetland permit for the
Amended Site Plan application for solar canopies and battery entry storage
system at the Croton Harmon Train Station Parking Lot.

Present: Mr. Colin Duncan, TRC Engineering, (Environmental consultants)
Mr. Duncan explained that Sol Systems had received a variance from the Zoning board and are
currently in the process of obtaining site plan approval. Part of the solar canopy plan is in the
watercourse buffer zone and the Planning Board referred the application to the Water Control
Commission for its review and recommendation for a Wetland Activity Permit.
The Water Control Commission members asked questions about excavation and removal and
disposal of contaminated materials, erosion and sediment control measures during the
construction phase, and the impact of the flood levels in the train station parking.
In response to the question about contaminated soil, Mr. Duncan stated that there will be no
exposed concrete in order to minimize exposure; the train station parking lot is an impervious
surface now and will remain impervious. Soil being removed may be additionally tested before
it goes to a soil/landfill facility, and standard operating procedure and protocols will be followed.
Mr. Duncan stated that the water runoff is currently being reviewed. Erosion and Control
measures include a SWPPP that has been submitted to the Planning Board, a plan that has
identified areas where temporary catch basin filters will be installed, hay bales and silt fence will
be installed to guard against water runoff.

There was a discussion about flood water protections to protect the site from 100 year flood
events. The Village Engineer stated that the flood elevation is currently 7 but might be going up
to 12 with new FEMA calculations. The battery energy storage system is out of the flood plain
area.
The Village Engineer noted that there was concern about water coming off the panels and
hitting the ground and icing and refreezing on the pavement. The village is still in discussion
about how to address this issue.
The Water Control Commission agreed to make the following recommendations to the Planning
Board:
1. That, the contaminated soils be disposed of in accordance with DEC requirements
2. That, Best Management Practices be used for erosion and sediment control during
construction.
3. That, the transformers (north and south) be kept above the stipulated FEMA level.
The Water Control Commission approved the resolution by a vote of 3 AYES and 1 Recusal
(Mr. Wetherbee works for TRC) and 1 Absentee (Dr. Besvinick).
The Water Control Commission approved the minutes of the WCC meeting of May 19, 2021,
and the July 21, 2021 minutes, by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Wiegman abstained).
There being no further business to come before the Water Control Commission, the meeting
was adjourned.
Respectfully submitted by,

Ronnie L. Rose
Secretary to the Water Control Commission

