WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, April 28th, 2022 4:30 p.m.
Via Zoom

PRESENT  Ms. Ann Galelli, Chairperson
         Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
         Mr. Len Simon

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O'Connor, P.E. Village Engineer

1) Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of April 28th, 2022
   to order at 04:30 pm

2) REFERRALS

   a) Historic Hudson Valley Van Cortlandt Manor 535 S Riverside Avenue- Referral
      from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
      Consistency Review for site improvements at Van Cortlandt Manor.

The WAC members reviewed a letter from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation requesting a recommendation of consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).

There was no CAF submitted for this application.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo attached.

MOTION: Mr. Greenbaum made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Mr. Simon and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Greenbaum made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting April 7th, 2022, seconded by Mr. Simon and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:48 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

Tel: 914-271-4783       www.crotononhudson-ny.gov       Fax: 914-271-3790

---

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman
ANN GALLELLI
Members
STUART GREENBAUM
LEN SIMON
Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO:     Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM:   Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:     Referral from Village Board for LWRP Consistency Review regarding site
        Improvements at Van Cortlandt Manor

DATE:   April 29, 2022

On April 28th, 2022, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) a referral from the Village Board on correspondence from New York State Department of Environmental Conservation for site improvements, some of which will occur in the 100 ft. wetland/watercourse buffer located at 525 South Riverside Avenue (Historic Hudson Valley). Based on the Committee's review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 3-0 all in favor.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies were relevant:

POLICY 1: Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and underutilized waterfront areas for commercial, industrial, cultural, recreational and other compatible uses.

This policy is applicable to and the proposed improvement project is consistent with this policy. The proposed improvements will help restore and revitalize the Historic Hudson Valley's historic site area for its recreational and cultural uses, such as the Blaze event and educational school visits. Historic Hudson Valley views this proposed project as an "opportunity to make urgently-needed improvements that will ensure the safety, comfort, access, and enjoyment of visitors to Van Cortlandt Manor, as well as restore the Colonial Revival landscape." Proposed improvements such as historic landscaping and path restoration of the Long Walk and driveway improvements will restore and revitalize Van Cortlandt Manor's deterioriating site.

POLICY 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved, and, where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.

POLICY 7A: The quality of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall be protected and improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and other public uses and values. Its resources shall be protected from the threat of pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.

POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the significant fish and wildlife habitats.

POLICY 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be permitted within the area of influence of the habitat unless best available technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.

POLICY 7D: Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the Croton River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitats and shore lands shall be included in any programs for cleanup of any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.

POLICY 7E: Runoff from public and private parkings lots and from storm sewer overflows shall be effectively channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants from polluting surface and ground water and impact the significant fish and wildlife habitats.

POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measureable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely affected.

POLICY 7G: Such activities must not cause degradation of water quality or impact identified significant fish and wildlife habitats.

These policies are applicable to and the proposed site improvement project is consistent with these policies. The use of Best Management Practices will control stormwater runoff into coastal waters and prevent adverse impacts to the habitat. The existing sedimentation basin outside the wetland will continue to be utilized.

POLICY 11: Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to minimize damage to property and the endangering of human lives caused by flooding and erosion.

POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.

POLICY 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities or development, or at other locations.

These policies are applicable to and the proposed project is consistent with these policies. The goal of the proposed site improvement project is make urgently needed improvements that will ensure the safety and access to Van Cortlandt Manor. Improvements to the pathways will "ensure that they conform to universal access requirements, reduce trip hazards, and contribute to overall visitor safety." The concrete pads for the Visitor Center and Tent complex will ensure safety and stability of the structures. The gravel drive is to be re-graded to drain to swales to reduce flooding and erosion. The runoff from the concrete pads will be directed to a grass swale and then to existing sedimentation basin.

POLICY 23: Protect, enhance and restore structures, districts, areas of sites that are of significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the stae, its community or the nation.

This policy is applicable to the proposed site improvements and the proposed project is consistent with this policy. The purpose of this improvement project is to make "urgently-needed improvements that will ensure the safety, comfort, access, and enjoyment of visitors to Van Cortlandt Manor, as well as restore the Colonial Revivial landscape that is central to the integrity of the National Historic Landmark site."

POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.

POLICY 33A: Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as to not increase flows within the existing system or to improve existing stormwater runoff systems so that runoff from such developments does not adversely impact coastal waters.

POLICY 37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point discharge of excess nutrients, organics and eroded soils into coastal waters.

POLICY 37A: Standards and specifications for the control of non-point source discharge as set forth in Westchester County's Best Management Practice Manual or other recognized reference shall be utilized during development of any site.

POLICY 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the benefits derived from these areas.

POLICY 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing damage from erosion or siltation, minimizing distrubance, preserving natural habitats and protecting against flood and pollution.

These policies are consistent with and applicable to the proposed project. Best Management Practices will be utilized to reduce any impacts to the site. The existing sedimentation basin outside the wetland will continue to be utilized. The drainage swales will direct stormwater runoff to the existing sedimentation basin, thereby reducing erosion into coastal waters. The existing drainage patterns are being maintained and the stormwater drainage velocity is being reduced via the use of erosion control measures.

The WAC believes that the proposed development will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards. Because there are no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider alternative actions or mitigation measures.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783       www.crotononhudson-ny.gov       Fax: 914-271-3790
