Revised Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
May 10th, 2022 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of May 10, 2022 to order at 8:01 p.m.
2. PUBLIC HEARINGS
a) Croton Yacht Club– Elliot Way (78.8-1-3) Application for Amended Site Plan Approval for
Modifications to Existing Rear Deck and Proposed open-air awning on three sides of the
building
Carolyn Campbell, Croton Yacht Club Commodore, was present in support of the application.
Steve Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Geoffrey Haynes, and the
motion carried, 5-0. Rob Luntz stated that the application was solid and the proposed
improvements will be good additions to the building. Regarding the Wetlands Permit, there is
no LWRP as it is a Type II action, which is determined to not have a significant adverse
environmental impact. Chairman Luntz invited comments from the public. Being that there
were no public comments, Eva Thaddeus made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded
by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 5-0.
Geoffrey Haynes disclosed that he was a past Commodore and Member of the Croton Yacht
Club.
Chairman Luntz went over the conditions of the resolution. Commodore Campbell reported that
they hoped to complete work on the deck this year and the awning by the end of next year.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Amended Site Plan and Wetlands Permit, seconded
by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 5-0.
b) Allure Auto Spa – 351 South Riverside Ave. – (79.13-1-64) Application for Amended Site
Plan Approval to add garage door to rear of building and reconfigure traffic flow for one
way flow
Christopher Munoz, co-owner and operator of Allure Auto Spa was present in support of the
application. Steve Krisky made a motion to open a public hearing for approval for the Amended
Site Plan Application, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 5 to 0. Chairman
Luntz noted that the new site plans that were submitted made modifications to label the traffic
flow with a portion having double lanes. Chairman Luntz also pointed out that the existing
1

landscape island was not on the new plans and Mr. Munoz said that this was an error and that
they planned to keep the landscape island in place. Mr. Haynes noted that the exit near Mex to
Go seemed a little tight for two-way traffic flow, but Mr. Luntz, after going by the property several
times, did not see cars parked there, so he did not think it would be an issue. The parking spots
in the back are for the whole development, and are not marked, but there are not many cars that
park there, except from the nail salon. Steve Krisky says there should appropriate signage
directing cars where to go. Dan O’Connor says there should be a sign telling drivers where to
exit. Chairman Luntz Rob opened the floor to public and, being that there were none, Geoff
Haynes made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus and it carried,
5-0. Mr. Munoz reported that he spoke to a local designer who referred him to two sign
companies and he will come back to the Planning Board with a new signage application.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Amended Site Plan Application with the conditions
listed in the resolution, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 5-0.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Lukic, Djoko & Lula – 87 Maple Street – (78.8-7-21) Application for Approval for an
Accessory Apartment
Relator Aggie Aliberto of RE/MAX Prime Properties was present in support of the application for
an accessory apartment on behalf of her clients, Mr. & Mrs. Lukic, who are in the process of
selling this property. By report, the accessory apartment was already there when the owners
purchased the home in 2001. The applicants also need to legalize the basement and two sheds
on the property. The accessory apartment is on the second level of the house and is accessed
through a side entrance. You cannot access the apartment from the main home. If the
apartment is approved, they will have to bring the apartment to code. The square footage of the
accessory apartment fits the code requirements, the entrance is not visible from the street, and
they have the required number of parking spaces. Steve Krisky asked Dan O’Connor for
clarification, “You are asking us to approve the apartment before there is a building permit?”
Dan O’Connor replied that this apartment is existing, and will have to be legalized to obtain the
Certificate of Occupancy. Ms. Aliberto says that there was an apartment in the basement.
Originally, the home had a doctor’s office in the basement. The basement also has a separate
entrance. Steve Krisky asks about the zoning of this street and Dan O’Connor confirms that it is
in the RA-5 zone, for a single-family home. An accessory apartment can be approved as long
as the owner lives on the premises. Steve Krisky says he is not comfortable with what could be
a loop hole. The basement will have to be modified to fit code. You can access the basement
from inside the first floor of the home. The stove will have to come out of the basement, rooms
will have to be labeled and sleeping rooms have to have a way out. The building department
will have to inspect the work and do a review per building code. Steve Krisky asks if the
applicants can do the work and then come back to the Planning Board for approval. Ms.
Aliberto reports that the owners are in contract to sell the home. Chairman Luntz says that the
second-floor apartment exists and meets standards, based on code. Ms. Aliberto says that they
are selling the home as a single-family home with an accessory apartment. Chairman Luntz
opened the meeting to the public. An anonymous letter was sent to the Planning Board from a
neighbor who was against the approval of the accessory apartment. Most members of the
2

Planning Board chose not to read the anonymous letter. Geoff Haynes believes that it sets a
bad precedent to read correspondence sent anonymously. Steve Krisky did read the
anonymous letter and felt that it raised some legitimate points. It was clarified that if an
anonymous complaint came into the building department, they would still investigate. The
Planning Board felt that had the letter writer come forward, they would have had their questions
answered. Steve Krisky felt that the other Planning Board members should have read the letter
as it was forwarded to them by the Engineering Office.
Chairman Luntz went over the Resolution that the applicant is the sole owner and primary
occupant of a single-family dwelling where the accessory apartment has a separate entrance,
the home has the required number of parking spaces, the apartment meets the required square
footage limitations and also that the application would be subject to the standard conditions,
according to Village Code. Chairman Luntz suggested that within 30 days, the applicant should
apply for a Building Permit for the accessory apartment and any necessary modifications to the
first floor and basement to reflect its use as a one family home.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Application for an Accessory Apartment, adding
that within 30 days, the applicant will address any building code issues with the first floor and
basement to reflect its use as a single-family home, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the
motion carried 3 to 2, with John Ghegan and Steve Krisky voting no.
4. OLD BUSINESS
a) 1926 83rd Realty Corp – 104 Maple Street (79.5-5-25) – Final subdivision approval for
a two-family home on a single lot into two individual single-family lots
Dan O’Connor presented the information for the applicant. On January 12th, 2021, the Planning
Board issued preliminary authorization for this subdivision. Currently, the applicants have
received zoning variance that they needed. Cross easements with utilities, sharing water and
sewer, was reviewed and deemed acceptable. Iron rods were installed to let neighbors know
where property line is. A legal agreement needs to be prepared that addresses the shared and
common components of the building to account for separate ownership of each dwelling unit.
The agreement shall also include all required cross lot easements for utilities, and other parts or
systems of the building including any temporary and permanent access easements. The
agreement needs to be submitted to the Village Engineer and Village Attorney for review.
Chairman Luntz asks if they are essentially checking boxes, Dan O’Connor says that it is a
unique subdivision as the property is existing. There is no more work to be done on site. The
surveyor, will have to change the plan title to “Final Subdivision Plans”. The applicant will have
to go to Health Department for approval. Most of the conditions have been met, there are some
minor ones, like filing paperwork, that the applicant still has to do. Once all of the conditions are
met, the applicant will come back from final approval, then the Planning Board Chairperson will
sign the final subdivision plat and the tax maps will be updated.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the final subdivision, providing all conditions are met
and approved by Dan O’Connor, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 5-0.

3

b) Hudson National Gold Club – 40 Arrowcrest Drive (67.15-1-4) Modification of
resolution of amended site plan approval for ancillary storage area to extend
timeframe to complete required improvements and submissions
Brett Scales, 2 Ashman Lane, Superintendent, Hudson National Golf Club, is requesting a fourweek extension to the timeframe to complete site improvements at HNGC. Currently the swale
is working as it should, and improvements to the swale should be finished within the week.
Geoff Haynes asked about the drawings and Mr. Scales reported that Ralph Mastromonaco,
P.E., Engineer, will update the site plans with as-built conditions. Steve Krisky asked for
clarification on the timeline and Brett Scales thought that they should be able to complete the
work by the end of May, 2022. The Planning Board thought it would be in everyone’s best
interest if the applicant asked for more time so that they would not have to come back to the
Planning Board for another extension. Geoff Haynes asked if pushing out the swale work would
cause hardship to property owners nearby and Brett Scales thought that realistically, the work
should be done by next week, barring bad weather. The Planning Board proposed extending
the deadline to complete the new drainage swale from 3 Prickly Pear Hill Road to Route A to
May 31, 2022 and the deadline to submit the as-build plans to June 30th, 2022.
Steve Krisky made a motion to extend the deadline to complete the new drainage swale to May
31, 2022 and the deadline to submit the as-build plans to June 30th, 2022, seconded by Eva
Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0.
5. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from April 26th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of April 26th, 2022, as
amended, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:29p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
Non agenda items –
 Steve Krisky brought up the Historic Hudson Valley sign coming into town. Mr. Krisky
feels that the sign is derelict and he wonders if Historic Hudson Valley could redo it. Dan
O’Connor said that he would look at the sign and see if property maintenance code
could be put into effect. Mr. O’Connor believed that there was talk about possible
transferring the sign to digital, the Planning Board does not agree with digitalizing the
sign. Mr. Krisky believes that Historic Hudson Valley would buy some goodwill in the
community by updating the sign.
 Assistant Village Engineer Ron Wegner got word there is an attempt at Half Moon Bay to
get work on the promenade completed by Memorial Day, 2022.

4




Things are moving along on Piney Point. The Engineering Office just issued sprinkler
permits for the two new builds.
Still waiting for a landscape design plan for 23 Nordica Drive.

5

