Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
June 28th, 2022 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT: John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT: Robert Luntz, Chairman
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Acting Chairman Krisky called the Planning Board meeting of June 28, 2022 to order at 8:00
p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Croton Sailing School – 2 Elliott Way – (78.12-1-1) Application for an Amended Site Plan
for a Shed
Steven Jennings of Croton Sailing School, was present in support of this application. Croton
Sailing School operates out of Senasqua Park Boat Basin with a fleet of boats that require
equipment such as life jackets, sails, and tools needed to maintain the boats. In 2010, the
Sailing School installed an 8’x16’ storage shed after obtaining authorization from The Planning
Board. The current application is for approval to install an additional shed, next to the existing
one to store more of the same equipment. The new shed is almost identical to the existing one,
but larger, 10’x16’. The material needed to support the shed is already in place. The proposed
location for the new shed is not in an area that would compromise the use of the space. There
was a storage rack in the proposed spot that was recently disassembled, so the space was not
in use. Geoff Haynes confirmed that the shed doors would face the river. Geoff Haynes asked
if the Sailing School purchases the sheds themselves as they are tenants of the space. Dan
O’Connor clarified that the Village owns the property and as per their rental agreement, the
sailing school is allowed to put up sheds, once they are approved by the Planning Board. Steve
Jennings spoke to John Bouchard, Foreman with Croton DPW who, by report, is fine with the
proposal. Dan O’Connor confirmed that Mark Duncan of Croton Recreation was aware of the
application and voiced no concerns. Steve Krisky asked about the color, and Steve Jennings
said it would be as close as possible to the color of the existing shed. Eva Thaddeus asks if the
shed will be anchored, and Steve Jennings says that it will not, the same as the existing one,
and there are no problems. Geoff Haynes asked how the existing shed did during Superstorm
Sandy, and Steve Jennings reported that it shifted a little, but that the shed was secured in
anticipation of the storm.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to call for a Public Hearing for the Amended Site Plan at the
Planning Board’s next scheduled meeting on July 12th, 2022, seconded by John Ghegan, and
the motion carried, 4-0.

1

Geoff Haynes asked if we needed a WAC review and Dan O’Connor said it was a Type II Action
under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration
is required.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from May 10th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of May 10th, 2022, as
amended, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0.
4. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS:
Steve Krisky asked about the Historic Hudson Valley Billboard on 9A. Dan O’Connor drove by
and spoke to Historic Hudson Valley, and they do plan to update the sign next year as they are
focusing on other projects this year. Historic Hudson Valley will not be doing a digital billboard.
Steve Krisky said that this was first brought up around five years ago and asked if Dan O’Connor
could speak with Historic Hudson Valley again.
Steve Krisky asked about the sidewalk leading up to Croton Commons from Mobil Gas Station.
Dan O’Connor reported that there is money already bonded for this project. There are
discussions trying to figure out how best to complete the project.
Regarding the Half Moon Bay Bike Path, as per Dan O’Connor, there are multiple projects
underway at Half Moon Bay. Steve Krisky informed the group that he biked the path earlier in
the day and that it is a problem. Approval of the bike path has to go before the Half Moon Bay
Homeowner’s Association, then they will need three proposals for the work.
The Engineering Office did not receive a landscape plan for 23 Nordica Drive. Dan O’Connor
reported that Mark Franzoso did get one estimate for a landscape plan, and he will be looking for
other estimates before proceeding.
Steve Krisky believes that the ShopRite parking lot is in need of some attention, specifically in
the area where you come down the ramp and make a left into the parking lot where, in addition
to the stop sign being on an impermanent base, there is no signage indicating right of way.
Geoff Haynes asked about Hudson National Golf Course and the drainage swale. Dan O’Connor
has inspected the swale and it is functional. There is some concrete work that needs to be
patched at the top of Prickly Pear Hill Road. Dan O’Connor is scheduled to inspect the
maintenance shed on June 29th, 2022. Expanded submission forms are coming soon.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:29 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton,
Secretary to the Planning Board
2

3

