Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
July 12th, 2022 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of July 12, 2022 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) Croton Sailing School – 2 Elliott Way – (78.12-1-1) Application for an Amended Site
Plan for a Shed
Steve Jennings of Croton Sailing School is present in support of this application. Steve Krisky
made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus and the motion carried,
5-0. Chairman Rob Luntz invited comments from the public. Being that there were no public
comments, Steve Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Geoff Haynes
and the motion carried, 5-0.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the application for an amended site plan for a shed,
seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 5-0.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Matra Group -- 1380 Albany Post Road -- (67.10-2-15) Application for a Special
Permit for a 29-unit-multi-family housing building
Kory Salomone of Zarin & Steinmetz, Alejandro Bolanos, P.E., and Lauren Brennan, P.E., from
Alfonzetti Engineering, and applicant Anthony Matra were present in support of this application.
The existing building is proposed to be demolished and a new, three-story, 33,400 square-foot
multi-family building is being proposed with 11 two-bedroom and 18 one-bedroom apartments.
The building will be supplied with municipal water and an on-site wastewater treatment system.
Ten percent of the dwelling units will be affordable which will result in three units, two (2) onebedroom and one (1) two-bedroom apartments.
The applicant discussed that the project will include amenities such as: a dog run, barbeque grill
area, rooftop/outdoor lounge, fitness center, community room, bicycle storage racks and
electrical vehicle charging stations. It is requested that the amenities be detailed further in the
1

site and architectural plans. It is noted that the County recommends that charging stations for
Electric bikes be provided.
The Planning Board has determined that the following objectives, as stipulated in §230-58, will
be achieved by this applicant.
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The proposed building is on a State Highway (Route 9A) so it is accessible to fire and police.
The Washington Engine Company is approximately 1.6 miles from the property and the
proposed building will have a fire sprinkler system as required by code. The Planning Board will
refer any future site plan applications to the Fire and Police Departments.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent
properties in conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The development plan complies with the requirements of the recently established North End
Gateway Zoning District which allows residential use by special permit.
The Planning Board requests that a significant amount of effort be put into a landscape plan as
they feel that it is important to the overall success of the project. It was recommended that a
continuation of the landscaping that was proposed for 1360 Albany Post Road be considered.
C. The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and
of the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into
particular account the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of
operations involved in or conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its
relation to access street.
There is access to the proposed building from Albany Post Road (Route 9A), which provides
ample sight distance in both directions. The Applicant is proposing to utilize the existing curb
cut on the property to access the site. The Planning Board agrees that there will be a slight
increase in traffic. There are no sidewalks along Albany Post Road which will hinder safe
pedestrian travel to other locations such as the nearby shopping to the north which is
approximately 1,300 feet from the proposed building. The Planning Board discussed the
walking and biking trail across the street that runs from Scenic Drive to Baltic Place. The trail
was developed as part of the Baltic Estates subdivision and is located on open space property
owned by the Westwind HOA. The trail is required to be maintained by the Westwind HOA but
has not been maintained for many years due to very minimal or no use. If the trail was cleared
and maintained, it would provide a bike and walking path from the proposed multi-family building
to Baltic Place and the adjacent shopping center. There is a bus stop on Albany Post Road at
the intersection of Scenic Drive/Warren Road and an improved trail would also provide access
to the bus stops. It is noted that the Westchester County Planning Board, in their November 23,
2021 letter, item #5, recommended a sidewalk along the front of the property (a copy of the
2

letter is attached). The applicant indicated that they will reach out to NYS DOT to discuss
sidewalk and crosswalk locations. The Planning Board will refer any future site plan applications
to the school district to renew for bus stop location.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height
of walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent
land and buildings and their appropriate development.
The height of the proposed building is compliant with existing zoning regulations. The
development of the property includes extensive landscaping. Mr. Matra, the developer, owns
the space next door.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands:

The Applicant believes that this criterion is not applicable as the proposed multi-family
building will have no adverse effect on the environment. Regarding preservation, the
applicant concedes that trees will come down but agrees to saving any trees that they
can.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to create a memo to The Village Board that outlines the Planning
Board’s recommendation to approve the special permit application with conditions as outlined
by the Village Engineer, seconded by Eva Thaddeus and the motion carried, 5-0.
b) Half Moon Bay Condominiums – Release of Bond for Promenade Repair WorkDan O’Connor reported that based on inspections by the Village of Croton Engineering Office
the repair of the promenade has been satisfactorily completed and a Certificate of Completion
has been issued. The Village received a check (#1994) in the amount of $35,000 for a bond
payment required by the Planning Board’s resolution approving a Wetland Permit on August
25,2020. Rob Luntz confirmed that Dan O’Connor was satisfied with the improvements. Steve
Krisky was concerned about a lack of handicapped accessibility, and mentioned a woman who
could not get her wheelchair through the North End of the promenade where there was a heavy
gate to hold open in order to get through. Steve Krisky was asking if there was a way to keep
the gate open to make it easier for wheelchair access and wondered if part of the bond money
should be held back until this issue was addressed. Geoff Haynes said that this concern was
not specified in the resolution that is being discussed. Dan O’Connor stated that he would
reach out to the President of the Home Owners Association about this issue. Steve Krisky
wants to make sure that the staff at Half Moon Bay know that the Promenade is open to the
public and Dan O’Connor reported that Village Manager, Bryan Healy had already sent a letter
to this effect. Geoff Haynes reiterated that was important to The Planning Board that the village
residents have access to the promenade.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to release the bond for Promenade Repair Work at Half Moon Bay
Condominiums, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 5-0.

3

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from June 28th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Geoffrey Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of June 28th, 2022,
seconded by, Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:20 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

Minutes approved 7/26/22 by a vote of 4-0. Steve Krisky was absent for 7/26 meeting.

4

