MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, July 24, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Joel Gingold
Niall Kelleher

Absent:
Brian Pugh (out of town)
Bernie Yozwiak (on vacation)
Dan Columbini (out of town)
Jon Katz (on vacation)

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): former committee member David Goldman (our “official” photographer)
Announcements: We again thank the Village for sponsoring our zooms.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants and projects
On 7/5, NYSERDA accepted our Stretch Code submissions, and approved on 7/11. An
application to secure the $5K grant was submitted on 7/20.
In the entire State, Croton is now second only to Hastings on CEC points (we have
6,900, they have 7,100). Once the firehouse HP controls are installed, we can apply for
another 500 points, making us first in the State in the CEC program.
Washington firehouse solar rooftop: CEG’s contract was accepted for signature by the
Village Manager on 7/22. Once countersigned by the Village, Lindsay will assemble a
site meeting to with Fire Dept. and DPW officials to schedule work start-up.
HP controls proposal: Carey& Walsh (C&W) is working on contractual changes
requested by Village staff. Once OKed, Jon and Lindsay will set up a site meeting with
Village staff and Fire Dept. officials to review the project.
- EV/EVSE
Niall summarized a recent study on EV charger reliability. There have been issues with
early failures and expeditious repairs by suppliers. We experienced both issues with the
dual-port charger at the train station installed ~3 years ago. His full report is appended.
The study applied only to L3 (i.e., 480 V DC Fast Chargers) in operation in California, but
some of it was relevant to our work. Niall found that a variety of unrelated issues could
impact service reliability, including the charge company’s communications network (all
use internal cell phones), the cell phone provider, power loss, etc. While 3 of the major
charger firms claimed 93-98% uptime, the study found it was closer to 73%. This is
important because the DEC grant requires maintaining at least 80% uptime, and our deal
with ChargePoint has that proviso written into it.
Bernie did a great job developing a detailed budget for the EV charger infrastructure
needed at the train station. We reviewed a diagram of a proposed charger and trenching
1

layout that would comply with all rules (including ADA) while minimizing total cost. A
rendering will be an additional email attachment to these minutes.
A quote from ChargePoint for the 6 dual port chargers and extra mounting kits for “future
proofing” was received 7/18. The DEC grant requires extended warranties, software, and
other adders. They pushed total charger cost to ~$77K. Total EV facility cost will be about
$200K of which the grant would cover ~$160K. All conduits and trenching (a big piece of
the work) are covered by SolSystems, and are not in that total cost
Rules for the DEC EV grant allow us to count the value of 24 EV parking spaces at the
train station against the required 20% match. Bryan Healy is getting a proposal for an
appraisal of that value. It could cover a large portion of the match.
Lindsay will attend a 7/27 ChargePoint zoom on aspects of the DEC grant app process.
- Funding Sources/Issues
NYSERDA agreed to allow all of our $20K in CEC grants to cover costs for EV chargers
and any parts of their supporting infrastructure as long as none of it is counted as part of
DEC’s required 20% Village match. Len agreed that the Village Board would likely be OK
with instead allocating the $20K to an upcoming municipal EV purchase, thus freeing up
$20K of actual Village funds that could be applied to our 20% match.
An issue also arose with the timing of the installation of the chargers. While there are
three possible sources of infrastructure funding (PowerReady, DEC, and federal BIL),
none are likely to arrive until much of the canopy work is nearly finished.
Bottom line: while the empty conduits should be done by mid-2023, no chargers (or other
infrastructure) are likely to be installed and available until late 2023 or early 2024.
[On 7/25, the PSC announced that expanded PowerReady incentives will be provided in
the Con Ed area. Recall that earlier incentives were fully allocated, forcing later applicants
(e.g., us) into a long wait list. Until such time as details on the new incentives are
available for review, we will continue to pursue the DEC grant discussed above.]
Because the Washington firehouse will be within the Climate Justice Working Group’s
(CJWG) new map of Disadvantaged Communities (DACs), and our grant for that project
is over $20K, it looked like we might be eligible for a $10K bonus grant. However, the new
DAC map does not take effect until later this year. On 7/11, NYSERDA told us that,
because our existing grant was already under contract, we are not be eligible for the $10K
even if we delayed construction. But for any future NYSERDA-sponsored projects over
$20K, we could apply for the $10K, once the new map takes effect.
- Other Solar Projects/Issues
Consolidated billing (needed to expand community solar) at last started in May. Now
called (by Con Ed) “net crediting”, the 10% savings will show up on Con Ed bills as a
monthly “Adjustment” with no explanation. Ecogy is now in process of migrating all its
customers to net crediting so they would no longer get its extra electric bill. Regarding our
2

2021 Community Solar 2.0 effort, fewer than 20 Croton participants completed their
enrollment forms. Each will now be given a slot in Ecogy’s next solar project.
Train station canopies: SolSystems’ contractor, Core Development Group, provided a
diagram of trenches for water management. Unfortunately, they are too far away from the
optimal site to be useful.
Croton Landing Park canopies: We continue to pursue an alienation exemption with
NYPA’s help (next zoom is 7/27). State legislative staff have still not answered questions
posed to them on 4/25. Bryan Healy again asked for responses. Continued failure may
necessitate asking Sen. Harckham to help resolve the issue.
In June, the Town Board of Cortlandt agreed to install 2 canopies that would not produce
direct municipal revenue. It felt that “fighting climate change should not be limited by the
amount of revenue it would produce”. On 7/20, Mayor Pugh supported that concept,
pending resolution of the alienation exemption issue. If the Village bought community
solar power from the site, ~$2K/yr in electric bill savings (not revenue) may be possible.
Joel pointed out that residents buying community solar power would also get a discount
on their electric bills, so a case may also be made based on that extra benefit.
- Food Scrap Recycling Program
On 7/11, the VB reviewed the status of our DEC grant for a pilot 6-month food scrap
recycling program. Originally scheduled for early 2020 and postponed due to COVID, in
March we got a 2-year extension ending 9/30/2024. The VB recently OKed use of the
back end of parking lot A at the train station (across from the station entrance) for a 6month period starting in Jan. 2023.
Trustees were also updated on developments, e.g., the County will pick up scraps and
take them to SMM’s Peekskill facility for ~$400 (instead of the private carter that wanted
~$4,000) for the 6-month term. Recruiting, etc. would need to start in mid-October.
This month, several people agreed to take on some program tasks:
- Patty Buchanan of C100 agreed to help with promotion and recruitment.
- Janet Monahan of the CAC said:
“It is good to see that this program is up and running. I will definitely volunteer to help. Also, I am
forwarding this email to the CAC members and am sure most will be willing to help also. You have
the full support of the CAC. We do have various email lists that we can spread the word out to village
residents.”

- Donna O’Malley agreed to help recruit/promote to Mothers Out Front (MOF).
- A new Croton resident (Keiko Niccolini) agreed to perform organizing tasks.
Niall said that his community garden group has a small (~50) email list that could also be
used to inform and recruit participants. Others who previously expressed interest are no
longer able or have not responded.
3

- Other Reports
Joel attended a 7/20 zoom panel by Peekskill’s CAC. It included 2 speakers from the
Sunrise Movement, an organization of young (e.g., high school / early college) people.
One was from Mamaroneck High School and the other from White Plains High School.
The main feature was a 2020 documentary (“Youth V Gov”) on the 7-year lawsuit by 20
young people pushing Washington to stop allowing use of fossil fuels. (the lawsuit did not
get to first base but got a lot of good PR).
As a potential source of useful interns or committee members, Joel concluded it was likely
to be yet another dead end. [Because one of the panelists was listed as the Co-Founder
and Co-Director of Sunrise Westchester, Lindsay asked Joel to get her contact info to
allow us to assess if there’s any value in working with its membership.]
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
Len agreed to approach a neighboring engineer on his potential interest in joining our
committee. Various other ideas were reviewed, including use of the Village email list,
working with local real estate firms to inform newcomers regarding our committee, and if
there’s some form of “Newcomers Club” that still welcomes new residents. [A web search
did not find any for Croton.] After Labor Day, Lindsay will send a LTE to the Gazette on
the matter to seek applicants and submit an article on the matter to the Village newsletter.
- New Business / Other Issues
Niall announced that the Village OKed installation of a 3 rd community garden. To be
installed at Gouveia Park near the open area adjacent to its parking lot, water would be
available at a nearby stream. Work is expected to be finished later this year.
Joel mentioned the upcoming 125th anniversary of Croton’s establishment and asked
if/how our committee may wish to be involved. An Aug. 11 organizing meeting will include
how Village committees could participate. Chaired by Carolyn Whiting, a friend of Joel’s,
both Len and Ann Gallelli are on the organizing committee.
We discussed Westchester Power’s new CCA prices for 11/1/22 through 10/31/24 which
were secured via blind/sealed bid on 7/20/22:
100% Renewable Supply: 15.128 cents/kWh
Standard supply:
13.364 cents/kWh
More than double that of the last contract, they may yield savings relative to Con Ed’s
variable pricing over the same period, but some resident blowback should be expected.
We will take our usual summer sabbatical. Date for our next zoom meeting was set for
Sunday, September 25 at 10:30 AM.

4

= pairs of dual-port chargers, back-to-back on concrete pads, Yellow outline is around the 24 spaces. White lines are trenches.

Niall’s Report on Charger Reliability
Hi Lindsay
The study you sent to me only looked at Level 3 chargers in 9 counties in the Greater Bay Area in California. As
such, the answer to your first question is No, it is not relevant to L2 units in Croton. However, it did bring up some
interesting information regarding charging infrastructure in general.
- it appears to be focused on DCFC chargers. Is any of it instead relevant to L2 units in Croton, or which we plan to
install at the train station?
This paper focused solely on DCFC chargers. However, there are factors that apply to both L2 an L3 chargers.
The use of uptime as the reliability metric is controversial since there is no standard definition nor is there a standard
calculation methodology. Given the complexity of the EVSE ecosystem and technology stack, from hardware to
software, ensuring a high uptime and assigning “uptime ownership” of each EVSE may be difficult and may
require standardization across different jurisdictions.
The EVSE ecosystem is composed of different stakeholders. For example, when an EVSE is installed, it is
connected to the local utility electrical infrastructure that delivers power to EVSE. The EVSE is installed by a
certified installer, operated by the charge point operator (CPO) and located at a site where it may be owned and
managed by a site host or the EVSP. The EVSE is connected to an internet service provider (ISP) network and a
payment system. Finally, the EVSEs may be serviced by an EV servicing company. Depending on the
jurisdiction, the overall responsibility for keeping the EVSE functioning, can be either with the local electric utility,
the installer, the site host, the CPO, or the servicing company. These stakeholders may be independent or may be
integrated, i.e., installer can also be the CPO, etc.
These stakeholders will likely have different levels of visibility over the status of the system. For example, the site
host might have information about the electrical infrastructure and outages and physical damage to kiosks but not
information about the functional status of each kiosk, whereas the CPO may have continuous EVSE status
information. This partial visibility of the EVSE operation poses a challenge in maintaining a high uptime from the
EV driver perspective. Moreover, since these stations are in public locations, events such as road Electronic copy
available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4077554 Reliability of EV Direct Current Fast Chargers may be affected
due to blockage due to construction, theft, or vandalism, which are beyond the immediate control of the CPO.
1.

Are chargers available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week? (Some chargers are in paid parking lots or are only
available to employees).

2.

The EVSE might not be available because other vehicles are parked next to the charger making it
unavailable.

- how long were the units in service before they failed?
No data on this question. Potentially numerous sources of failure
a) Loss of power to the device.
b) Loss of internet service.
c) Physical damage to EVSE, cable breaks, the box is physically damaged.
d) The Charge Point Operator system might go down.
- what service agreements (if any) or warranties were involved?
No data on warranties.
- was there any indication how long units were out of service before being repaired?
This was not covered in the study.

- did the study ID the charger brand name(s) of the failed units? If so, what were they?
The study concentrated on Level 3 chargers only. The 3 major providers, ChargePoint, Electrify America and
EVgo claim 95% to 98% uptime. This limited California study found uptime closer to 73%. [We will be using
ChargePoint units.]

5

- please separate the % failures not related to charger operation from any other cited issues, e.g., the length of the
charge cord to clarify charger operational issues.
[That data was not differentiated in the study.] Some of this may be important in light of an issue we are having
with repairs to the one charger presently at the train station. It is presently unclear why it is taking so long despite
prior identification of the failure mode, parts needed to fix it, and a PO being issued months ago for the work.
Additional background data on EV chargers
The generic term used to describe the piece of equipment used to charge an electric vehicle is ‘electric vehicle
supply equipment’ (EVSE). EVSE can be further categorized into three levels that relate to their output power
capabilities.
Level 1 and level 2 EVSE both supply alternating current (AC) to an electric vehicle’s on-board charger and level 3
systems supply direct current (DC) to the EV. The use of the term ‘charger’ for levels 1 and 2 is misleading, as
they are not technically chargers. They supply AC electricity to the EV where the on-board charger converts the
AC to DC, which charges the batteries. EVSE also provides important safety features for both users and
charging equipment.
The EV’s battery management system (BMS) is another vital component in an EV charging system. It is responsible
for thermal management, cell balancing, over charge and over discharge monitoring of the battery pack. An EV
battery pack is not made of a single battery; instead, many individual cells are combined to form a bank. A single
cell may only have a small safe working voltage range and it is important to ensure it stays within this range. This
is particularly important with variants of lithium-ion batteries commonly used in EVs. Over charge and over
discharge can result in disastrous consequences including reduced battery life or total battery failure causing fires.
It is the job of the BMS to monitor the battery cells to ensure they all stay within normal operating voltages and
temperatures. The BMS also balances individual cells by redistributing charge from cells of higher electric
potential (voltage) to lower potential cells. BMS’s use numerous techniques to manage the battery pack. The
BMS is also responsible for the voltage and current requests from the charger. This includes both the on-board
charger for levels 1 and 2 or the off-board charger for level 3 EVSE. Multiple charging profiles (constant current,
constant voltage etc.) are available to charge a battery.
Level 1 and 2 Charging
Level 1 and 2 chargers provide AC electricity to the EV’s on board charger. There is communication between the
EVSE and the EV to ensure the on-board charger does not draw more current than the EVSE can supply, and to
safely protect the user and equipment. The current limit is dependent on the EVSE level and more importantly, its
electrical supply. Level 1 chargers are typically inline chargers which are stored with the EV. Their compatibility
with standard household electrical sockets limits the power they can deliver which consequently increases
charging times. This portability, combined with their compatibility, allows their use as emergency chargers in
situations where the EV battery has gone flat. In the US, level 1 supplies correspond to a single phase supply of
12A at 110V. This allows a maximum power transfer to the EV of 1.4 kW. These chargers are slow and it can
typically take 4-18 hours to fully charge an EV. In countries such as the UK and New Zealand, where the grid
voltage is 230V single phase, this allows a higher charging power for the same current, which reduces charging
times. Assuming people’s use of their EVs does not drain the battery too much on a daily basis, a level 1 EVSE
can provide adequate charging overnight. Level 2 EVSE aims to improve the power output by using a dedicated
‘box’ permanently mounted on a wall or other appropriate structure. The permanently mounted box allows for a
dedicated electrical supply of sufficient capacity, enabling a significantly higher power output compared to level 1.
In the US, the electrical supply to the EVSE is often spilt phase. This increases the voltage supplied to the EV to
240V, which significantly increases the power without drawing more current. Level 2 EVSE can provide between
4 and 20 kW depending on the local supply. This can reduce charging times of an EV to 1-12 hours. Both homes
and dedicated charging facilities (private or public) are common locations for level 2 EVSE.
Example of level 2 EVSE

6

Level 1 and level 2 EVSE with either the J1772 or type 2 connector contain signaling electronics to improve user
safety and protect the infrastructure. One of the key safety features with the signaling electronics is the prevention
of voltage being present at the connector terminals while it is not correctly mated to the EV. This helps protect the
user, by ensuring if they were to touch the connector pins, they would not receive an electric shock. While the
connector is connected, the vehicle is also immobilized to prevent driving while charging. The EVSE also
monitors the potential ground to ensure there is no earth leakage, further reducing electric shock risk.
Communications between the EVSE and EV are not bidirectional and are completed using a modulated 1 kHz
square wave. The EVSE generates the square wave, and its duty cycle indicates to the EV the maximum

7

available current. The square wave nominally oscillates between -12V and +12V, however, this voltage can also
be altered to indicate various states. These states are: not connected; EV connected; EV charge; EV charge
ventilation required; and error.

DC Rapid Charging
Level 3 is the highest power level for EV charging systems. DC charging, fast charging or rapid charging are other
common names used to refer to level 3 EVSE. Due to their large power requirements and significant capital cost,
level 3 systems are found only at dedicated charging facilities. The two major competing standards for level 3
charging are the SAE combined charging system (CCS) and the Japanese CHAdeMO standard. The third
standard is Tesla Motors’ own Supercharger, which is only compatible with their vehicles. The Tesla
Supercharger is currently the world’s fastest EV charger with 120kW installations found around the world.
Charging of Tesla vehicles using CHAdeMO infrastructure is also possible with the addition of an adapter
produced by Tesla Motors. Unlike levels 1 and 2 EVSE, DC electricity is supplied to the EV, bypassing the onboard charger. The charger is located off board and is the charging station. In the simplest terms, a level 3 EVSE
is a controllable DC power supply. As with levels 1 and 2 systems, the BMS monitors the battery to ensure it
stays within the safe operating parameter.

8

