Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, July 18, 2022, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Treasurer Tucker
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Rosales
Trustee Simon

The following official was absent:
Trustee Horowitz
1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 21227312 through 21227368 and 2223000 through
22230171. The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a
4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$228,647.14
$6,573.64
$3,585.14
$68,280.71
$2,416.27
$63,232.68

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL – none
4. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Draft letter from Village Manager Healy seeking to conduct a neighborhood
survey on parking restrictions in the Harmon area.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202207/e737afc1045fcd121d0152f99d92d67e06749f71.pdf

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 2

b. E-mail from Seaver Wang, Croton Rotary Club President, dated July
13, 2022, requesting to reserve the train station parking lot for their
September 25th Car Show
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Rosales the
Board of Trustees approved the request from the Croton Rotary Club
to use the train station parking lot for their September 25th Car Show.
Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote.
c. Letter from Jud Ramaker, Race Director of the Harry Chapin Memorial
Run Against Hunger, dated July 8, 2022, requesting support from the
Village for their October 16th event.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees approved the request from the “Harry Chapin
Memorial Run Against Hunger” Director asking for support from the
Village for their October 16th event. Motion was approved with a 4-0
vote.
d. Letter from “NYS Division of the Budget” dated July 8, 2022, regarding
the Village’s second allocation of “American Rescue Plan Act Local
Fiscal Recovery Funds.”
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202207/055653ea6502dc2e2f663c372dd908491570377b.pdf
5.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none

6.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #112 of 2022
On motion of Trustee Simon, seconded by Gallelli, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
with a 4-0 vote.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 3

WHEREAS the Westchester County Fire Mutual Aid Plan has recently been amended
and approved by the State of New York,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approves
participation by the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department in the Westchester County
Fire Mutual Aid Plan ("Plan"), as amended from time to time, and further certifies to
Westchester County, through its Commissioner of Emergency Services, that it shall
comply with the provisions of the Plan, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that there are no resolutions in effect that restrict
outside service and training by the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED there are currently no limitations, conditions or
restrictions on the Fire Agency from providing prompt assistance, and the
Commissioner of Emergency Services shall be notified in writing if any such
limitations are imposed subsequent to the adoption of this resolution, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department shall
respond to all calls for assistance from another fire agency through the Westchester
County Emergency Communications Center a/k/a "60 Control", and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby
acknowledges and accepts its financial responsibility pursuant to applicable law, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this resolution shall be filed with the
Westchester County Commissioner of Emergency Services.
Resolution #113 of 2022
On motion of Trustee Simon, seconded by Trustee Rosales, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was awarded $5,000 through the Public
Employer Risk Management Association, Inc. (PERMA) to reimburse the Croton-onHudson Fire Department for the purchase of a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
washer, and
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 4

WHEREAS this award requires that a contract between the Village of Croton-onHudson and PERMA be executed so that funds may be distributed,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the contract with PERMA for a grant in the amount of $5,000 to reimburse
the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department for the purchase of a Personal Protective
Equipment (PPE) washer.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy stated that this is a very important investment for our fire
department, it replaces a washer that was twenty years old and will do the job
more efficiently and result in a faster turn-around of gear.
Resolution #114 of 2022
On motion of Trustee Gallelli, seconded by Trustee Simon, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Historic Hudson Valley (HHV) is a non-profit organization which owns and
maintains the historic Van Cortlandt Manor property, located on South Riverside
Avenue, and
WHEREAS HHV applied for and received a grant from New York State for the
restoration of the Van Cortlandt Manor entrance, and
WHEREAS the Village is serving as the sponsor agency for the grant, which requires
no expenditure of Village funds, and
WHEREAS Bergmann Associates of Albany, New York, has been retained as a
consultant for design engineering services,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the supplemental consultant agreement with Bergmann Associates for
design engineering services for the restoration of the Van Cortlandt Manor entrance
project.
Resolution #115 of 2022
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 5

On the motion of Trustee Simon, seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Veterans Memorial Park is a public park owned and maintained by the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS the park contains a monument dedicated to Croton residents who lost
their lives while fighting an American War, featuring flags of the United States
Armed Forces, and
WHEREAS the monument serves as a gathering place for the public to thank, honor,
and celebrate the lives of all who served, and
WHEREAS the Village is seeking to install two additional flag poles at the Veterans
Memorial Park monument, and
WHEREAS the estimated cost of purchasing and installation for the two flagpoles is
$3,235.50, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2022-2023 General
Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $3,235.50 from Contingency Account #A1990.4000 to the
following account: A8510.4000 – Community Beautification:
$3,235.50
Resolution #116 of 2022
On the motion of Trustee Gallelli, seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Code for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was originally
codified in 1990, and
WHEREAS the Village desires a comprehensive review of the Village Code to ensure
that all fines, legislation and references are up-to-date and in line with New York
State and neighboring communities, and
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 6

WHEREAS the Village has received a preliminary quote for Codification Services,
including an editorial and legal analysis of the Village Code, from General Code® of
Rochester, New York in the amount of $6,400, and
WHEREAS such analysis has not been completed since the original codification
project, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2022-2023 General
Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $6,400 from Contingency Account #A1990.4000 to the
following account:
A1420.4000 – Law $6,400
DISCUSSION
Trustee Gallelli emphasized that this is just a review of our current Code, we are in
no way changing any policies or zoning but rather eliminating inconsistencies that
may have occurred since it was last reviewed.
Trustee Simon stated that this is a reasonable cost for such a large undertaking and
important for the Village so that we do not have conflicts with various sections of
our Code.
Village Manager Healy stated that in addition to finding inconsistencies, they can
also advise us where we might look to make changes in areas that may not be
consistent with New York State laws.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON AGENDA ITEMS

Signe Bergstrom, 228 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
she objects to the proposed cell tower by Homeland Towers, she believed
that purchasing property adjacent to one of the Village’s main water
systems would have reduced their risk of having to deal with builders who
do not respect the character of the area, she works from home and her
job requires hours of solitude and quiet, the proposed 2,400 square foot
fenced compound would be one-hundred feet from her property line and
less than one-hundred and eighty feet from her home and because the
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 7

compound is uphill from her property the idea of hiding such a large
installation with landscaping is unrealistic. Ms. Bergstrom stated that her
family’s financial future is based on the value of their home and urged the
Board to reconsider this proposal from advancing any further.
Aaron Lamar, 228 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
when the sales representative of Homeland Towers indicated that only a
few neighbors would be impacted and that it would make for a pretty
good site selection, it sounded like the Village would only have to sacrifice
the aesthetics, tranquility and property value of a few of its residents, the
truth is that this project impacts more than just his family and those of
our neighbors, it also affects the property value and aesthetics of many
homes throughout the Mount Airy neighborhood, it would be visible from
multiple locations in the Village, be within a half mile from the Croton
Arboretum and less than half a mile from Temple Israel of Northern
Westchester, it would also be next to Croton’s two main water pumping
stations and the Con-Edison power lines, for a Village working to promote
itself as being “Green”, this project directly contradicts that mission
statement, many trees would be cut down and it will block a proposed
Village trail that appears on the Village’s own Trail Maps, while the
negative health effects caused by cell tower radiation can be debated,
insurance companies specifically do not cover such health related risks
from those towers, this proposal was not solicited by the Village, no
alternative locations, co-locations or solutions to the Village’s technical
issues were discussed and asked who gets to decide how we upgrade and
integrate new technologies into our community. Mr. Lamar asked that the
primary interest should be the health, safety, privacy, security and well
being of its residents and urged the Board to reject this project.
Renee Curci, 233 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, requested that
the balloon test scheduled for August be postponed till the fall when the
leaves are down to give all of us the ability to see what it will look like
during a significant part of the year.
George Ivanoff, 233 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, requested that
in addition to the balloon test being moved, the footprint of the cell tower
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 8

should be marked out along with all the trees that are going to be
impacted which will help everyone to visualize what this impact will really
be.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that whether it is
a cell tower or the huge expansion of the railroad’s diesel electric shop,
the Board needs to care more about the beauty of Croton. Mr. Riely
stated that hard times are here and encouraged the Board to relieve the
pressure on taxpayers, by encouraging the growth of businesses.
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on July 5, 2022, was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Rosales and approved with a 4-0 vote.
9. REPORTS:
Trustee Rosales advised that he attended last week’s Zoning Board of
Appeals meeting, it was an interesting opportunity to hear what has been
going on and looks forward to attending the next meeting.
Trustee Simon advised that he attended a presentation by Con-Edison
regarding their Grand Street project, work has begun on the “Safe Streets
and Roads for All” grant and thanked Emily Mancini for the great work she
is doing as “captain” of that process, attended the Hudson Valley Gateway
Chamber meeting last week, thanked outgoing Rotary President Seaver
Wang for all his hard work and welcomed new President Janeen Valent,
the Planning Board meeting focused on the conclusion of the Half Moon
Bay project, the new shed at the sailing school and the 1380 Albany Post
Road project, on July 14th the Cannabis Board held a meeting on line
wherein they presented regulations for the issuance of licenses.
Trustee Gallelli stated that Con-Edison did a great job explaining the
Grand Street project and encouraged those who were unable to make the
meeting to watch it on the Village’s website, DPW continues to work on
clearing the Elliott Way walkway and thanked them for their hard work,
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 9

DPW Superintendent Balbi, Village Manager Healy and herself visited the
Gouveia park to look at the possibility of a community garden,
participated in a call with Con-Edison with regards to their preparations
for the heatwave and urged everyone to be careful.
Mayor Pugh appointed the following residents to Croton’s 125th
Anniversary Committee: Marc Cheshire , Nicole Belle DeRise, Alanna
Fraase, Joel Gingold, Eleanor Kwei , Nancy Libow, Carrie Sena, Matilda
Weekes and Carolyn Whiting, and Trustee Gallelli and Trustee Simon as
Trustee Liaisons.
Mayor Pugh thanked the residents who came out this evening to address
their concerns regarding the proposed Homeland Cell Tower, he
understands their desire to have it rejected entirely outright, but there is
a potential benefit to the community, and the Board has to weigh the
benefit against the burden which requires a more thorough analysis to
determine the extent that the impact will have on the neighborhood and
the possible benefit it could have to the larger community. Mayor Pugh
addressed the comment about the Metro North diesel electric shop, those
shops have existed for a very long time, but the State Legislature has
specifically exempted the Metropolitan Transportation Authority from local
zoning.
Village Attorney Whitehead emphasized that the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority does not have to come before the Village and
does not require any permits so there is no opportunity for the Village to
say no.
Village Manager Healy reminded everyone that the Library serves as a
designated cooling center, they are open most evenings until 9:00pm and
and suggested checking their website for exact hours, in the event of a
power outage, the Village’s community room would open as a cooling
center, the annual Village Tag Sale is scheduled for September 17th and
the annual Fall Fest will be held on October 1st, and reminded all
residents that under both Village and State laws dogs are required to be
licensed.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
July 18, 2022
Page 10

There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting and enter into an Executive Session to discuss matters of
personnel was made by Trustee Rosales. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Gallelli and approved with a 4-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 7:55pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

10

