Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
July 26th, 2022 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT: Steven Krisky
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of July 26th, 2022 to order at 8:02 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) Franzoso, Mark - 23 Nordica Drive (79.13-4-64) - Minor Site Application for
Construction of New Home including Landscape Architect Plans

Neither the applicant nor a representative was present in support of this application. Chairman
Luntz invited comments from the audience, and having heard none, it was decided that the
application will be held over until the next Planning Board Meeting scheduled for August 9th,
2022. The Public Hearing remains open.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Decker, Adam & Suzanne - 13 Ackerman Ct (67.20-3-33.8) - Building Envelope
Modification and Excavation & Fill Permit for Pool House
Chairman Rob Luntz is the architect for this project, so he recused himself and asked Geoff
Haynes to act as chairperson for this portion of the meeting. Ryna Lustig of Ryna Lustig
Landscape Consulting, LLC and Danny Alemany from Resolution:4 Architecture were present
and spoke in support of the application. By report, the modification of the building envelope is
necessary because the proposed site is the only reasonable location due to the existing limited
area above the large boulder retaining wall. Dan O’Connor reported that on June 9th, 1990, the
Planning Board approved this subdivision with a condition that any future accessory structures
(e.g., swimming pools, tennis courts) would require Planning Board approval if being considered
outside of the building envelope.
Ryna Lusting anticipates that the trickiest part of the project will be getting down to the building
site as it is a tight spot and a temporary road will need to be installed in order to get there. It is
also believed that some part of the temporary road will remain to allow for future vehicular traffic
and wheelchair access. The landscape plan shows existing evergreens will remain, and will
continue and wrap around ensuring that over time it is a comfortable private spot. Below the
1

lower lawn is an area with large mature trees with bramble and overgrown brush that transitions
to beautiful wood lot that will not be touched. Ryna Lustig stated that one dogwood and one
oak tree will need to be removed and one existing dogwood will be relocated. The existing row
of arborvitae will remain. Additionally, a low boulder wall 3’ high will be placed to support the
access road and pedestrian ramp.
Geoff Haynes asked about lighting, and Ryna Lustig replied that there will be some safety lights
to get down the steps, maybe some twinkle lights in the garden beds and possible some soft
lights in the stone wall. Geoff Haynes also asked about the fence and if it follows the building
envelope, which it does. Regarding mitigation of runoff during construction, a silt fence and hay
bales will be installed for soil erosion sedimentation control around the pool area and the rest of
the lower field is very flat. Acting Chairman Haynes also asked about the timing of the project
and it was reported that the homeowners would like to get started sooner vs. later. Ideally, the
project would be started in the fall before the very cold weather with the hope of finishing in the
spring. Chairman Haynes asked about the excavating and the effect on the neighbors and
Ryna Lustig reported that there should not be too much removal as they will need the soil as fill
in to level the surface, meaning that there should not be a lot of up and down. When asked
about the current fence around the pool area, Ryna Lustig says that she is not sure if is up to
code in all areas and it may have to be adjusted in spots.
Danny Alemany spoke of the pool house design, it will have a bathroom, laundry area, outdoor
shower and grill area. There will be a cultec storm water infiltrator. Dan O’Connor has seen
plans for the pool house and given feedback to the architects.
It was confirmed that this project is a Type II Action, and no Negative Declaration is required.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Building Envelope Modification, seconded by Eva
Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 3-0, with Robert Luntz recusing himself and Steve Krisky
being absent.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from July 12th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Geoffrey Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of July 12th, 2022,
seconded by, John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0, with Steve Krisky being
absent.
5. NON- AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
1) Geoff Haynes asked about the Katz Property. Dan O’Connor reported that the
developer is waiting on paperwork from the state regarding the grant and has resubmitted
paperwork to the health department and is awaiting approval. A building permit application is
expected in the fall. Eva Thaddeus asked if that application would come before the Planning

2

Board and Dan O’Connor answered that it would not as the Planning Board has already
approved the application.
2) Regarding the former hardware store, the developer obtained health department
approval this week. New plans are being finalized, and there will be an amended site plan.
3) There is nice progress on the two new homes on Piney Point Ave.
4) Three new homes on Wells Avenue nearing completion. The developer was regularly
on site and there was very little disruption.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:53 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
Approved 8/9/22 RL- yay JG- yay ET- yay GH- absent SK recused as he was absent 7/26

3

