APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, June 28th, 2022
Roll Call: G. Tucci (284), D. Vlad (318), B. Powers (474), K. Russell (576), C. Caterino (534),
M. Feminella (162), R. Pappas (404), J. Karpoff (487), J. Streany (275), T. Kaplan (501)
EXCUSED: J. Munson (221), C. Columbo, W. Skiba (267),

Department Members: P. Dinkler, R. Capellazzi (126), J. Delaney (350), 164, 350,
Others in Attendance: Mayor B. Pugh, Trustee Simon, VM Healey
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Asst. Chief Karpoff at 19:02.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Mayor Pugh mentioned grant received for new fire
boat. Manager Healey was asked about EMS property damage and indicated there was no
damage to EMS property. Vlad asked about moving Fire Boat from Croton Yacht Club to the
Half Moon Bay Marina where it was previously stored. Streany mentioned that the Half Moon
Bay Marina slip was part of the original Certificate of Occupancy at the time the marina
opened.
Vlad asked if there was any further discussion on the EMS building / Harmon Firehouse.
Manager Healey indicated no real progress only an informal discussion with Fire Chief’s.
Russell asked if any EMS representative was present at the discussion. Manager Healey
indicated that it was an informal discussion with Chief’s Munson and Columbo.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion: Kaplan / 2nd Powers to approve the minutes of the 5/31/2022 Council Meeting –
CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
•

Letter from Hook & Ladder re firefighter Davies removed from Active to Social.
Motion: Vlad / 2nd Powers - CARRIED.

•

Letter from Fire Patrol with application for Christopher Bleakley for membership.
Motion: Vlad / 2nd Tucci – Membership approved pending arson background. On the
Question: Mayor Pugh asked if the proposed member lived in Ossining.
Motion: CARRIED

Reports of the Chiefs
J. Munson (2081) – No report
J. Karpoff (2082)

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, June 28th, 2022
•

Thanked members for making calls and mentioned several training opportunities. Can
be viewed on Department website.

C. Columbo (2083) – No report

Reports of Committees
By-Law – Committee reported draft distributed of new Article II qualifications for Assistant
Chiefs / Chief will be sent out prior to Council Minutes distribution via email.
Recruitment – Table staffed at Summerfest and a few individuals indicated they may be
interested.
Fire Fair – Scheduled for October 2nd and Big Bucks Raffle will take place at Fire Fair.

Unfinished Business:
Harmon Engine exterior door is unable to open as well as the door on the Wayne St. side –
Chiefs are aware of both doors.
Estimate for vent cleaning was solicited and the cost was extremely high.
Hook & Ladder asked about the need for Department badges. Treasurer Dinkler indicated they
were on order.

New Business:
Marine 32 is back in service.
WECO members asked if the Chiefs could develop a group of instructors for training so it does
not all fall upon Chief Munson.
Discussion on June 30th Annual Refresher Training completion date.
Motion: Vlad / 2nd Kaplan to extent the Annual Refresher Training requirement 3 months for
those who need to take it. Motion – CARRIED
Treasurer’s Report: P. Dinkler reports account has a balance of ~$24,000.00. He also
indicated that to date the 2% money and the Town of Cortlandt funding has not been received
yet. Motion: Streany / 2nd Kaplan to accept Treasurer’s Report - CARRIED
Motion to Adjourn by G. Tucci /2nd Russell – CARRIED.

M eeting Adjourned at 21:40.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, June 28th, 2022
Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by Joseph P. Streany, Secretary pro tem on
7/ 12/ 22.

