Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
August 9, 2022, 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Sherry Horowitz, Village Board Trustee
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT: Geoffrey Haynes
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of August 9th, 2022 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) Franzoso, Mark - 23 Nordica Drive (79.13-4-64) - Minor Site Application for
Construction of New Home including Landscape Architect Plans

Engineer Dan Ciarcia presented a landscape plan prepared by IQ Landscape Architects, dated
June 14th, 2022. There is a row of Green Giant Arborvitae at the back of the property, as well as
some Constellation Dogwoods and mix of small shrubs in the front of the property for decorative
landscaping. There is a Black Tupelo scheduled to be planted between the house and retaining
wall which Eva Thaddeus thought to be a surprising choice due to the fact that it could grow
quite large. Ms. Thaddeus thought that this should be something to consider. Both Rob Luntz
and Eva Thaddeus thought that the dogwoods in the back were a good choice as the neighbors
to the rear of the property have an upper deck and this plan will provide a nice screen for them.
Additionally, the preservation of trees next to the neighbor to the east is an improvement. As far
as the landscaping plan goes, Rob Luntz says that the applicant has done what was asked of
them. Eva Thaddeus says the landscape plan as a whole is more robust than what she
expected and included many native plants.
Steve Krisky asked about the timeline of the project. A question was asked if the ongoing Piney
Point projects will affect the timeline for 23 Nordica Drive, considering that the owner of 23
Nordica Drive also owns one of the Piney Point homes that is under construction. Steve Krisky
asked if the plan was to bring the modular home on to 23 Nordica Drive after the two new
homes on Piney Point Avenue are finished. Rob Luntz asked for a construction sequencing
plan and stated that the Planning Board and the neighbors on Nordica Drive deserve answers to
questions regarding a timeline. The Planning Board members expressed frustration that after
months of asking, there is no construction sequencing plan. Dan O’Connor proposed including a
condition on the Certificate of Occupancy for the new Piney Point Ave. homes that would
require the landscaping to be installed at this 23 Nordica Drive property.

1

Chairman Luntz opened the meeting to public comments. Earl DePass of 10 Nordica Drive
spoke and reported that other neighbors had also wanted to come and express their concerns,
but they were unable to do so. Mr. DePass stated that he would feel more comfortable if the
landscape architect or property owner were at the meeting to answer questions. Mr. DePass
asked if the same landscape architect was used for both the Nordica Drive and Piney Point
projects and Dan Ciarcia said that he believed that they were. Mr. DePass asked if there was a
warrantee on the trees that would be planted as he has little faith in the property owner. Rob
Luntz answered that the landscape plan guarantees the plantings for one year which is a
standard condition.
Mr. DePass asked about an oil tank that is on Nordica Drive. Dan O’Connor believes that it is a
portable oil tank for the Piney Point Avenue contractor. Mr. DePass voices concern that it looks
like it is lying on its side and it is not clear if there is oil in the tank. Mr. DePass wondered if the
EPA should be contacted. Lastly, Mr. DePass asked about the existing storm drain and was it
functional. Dan O’Connor says that yes, it is functional. Mr. DePass wondered whose
responsibility it was to maintain the storm drain and Dan O’Connor says that it is the contractor’s
responsibility at this time. Trustee Sherry Horowitz asked about the typical schedule for
cleaning out storm drains. Dan O’Connor answered that normally, the drains are cleaned out
when they are about 50% full. DPW cleans the basins approximately two times a year and is
aware of which need to be cleaned more often.
Dissatisfaction was expressed again that the same questions were asked and not answered.
Steve Krisky would like the landscape architect or owner, Mark Franzoso to be present for the
next meeting to answer questions regarding the timeline. The Public Hearing remains open.
3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Orchid & Elm – 36 Oneida Ave (79.13-1-9) Sign Permit Application
Lorraine DeMaio, Rose Marie Melda and Lisa Smith, three of the four owners of Orchid & Elm
were present in support of the application. It was noted that there have been some nice
upgrades to the plaza where Orchid & Elm is located, including an exterior paint job.
The VEB reviewed the sign application and offered some minor suggestions. The VEB felt that
the overall look was fine with a handsome typeface, they also made some suggestions
regarding spacing. Lisa Smith made revisions and sent them to the VEB, but never heard back
and after discussions with the sign designer, Fast Signs, of White Plains, NY, Orchid & Elm
decided to stick with the original design. Rob Luntz confirmed with Dan O’Connor that the sign
met Village Code.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Sign Permit application, seconded by Steve
Krisky, and the motion carried, 4-0, Geoff Haynes being absent.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from July 26th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
2

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of July 26th, 2022,
seconded by, Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 3 -0, with Geoffrey Haynes
being absent and Steve Krisky recusing himself as he did not attend the July 26th meeting.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:
54 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
These minutes were approved at the August 23rd Planning Board Meeting by a vote of 3-0 with
Rob Luntz, Geoff Haynes and Eva Thaddeus voting yes, John Ghegan & Steve Krisky were
absent.

3

