Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
August 23, 2022, 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT: Steve Krisky, John Ghegan
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of August 23rd, 2022 to order at 8:05 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) Franzoso, Mark - 23 Nordica Drive (79.13-4-64) - Minor Site Application for
Construction of New Home including Landscape Architect Plans

Engineer Dan Ciarcia was again present in support of this application. Mr. Ciarcia believed that
the remaining obstacles to obtaining this minor site plan approval were a landscape plan that
was presented to the Planning Board on August 9th, 2022 and project coordination with the two
new homes currently under construction on Piney Point Avenue that have an easement on this
Nordica Drive lot. Dan Ciarcia presented a letter with anticipated construction sequencing that
is attached to these minutes. Mr. Ciarcia believes that this letter presents the best proximation
of how things will go in terms of completing the three projects which are the two new homes on
Piney Point Ave. and this project, 23 Nordica Drive. Dan Ciarcia stated that there will be
provisions for machinery to get up to Piney Point from this property on Nordica Drive. Rob
Luntz asked about the steel mesh that is proposed to be used for slope stabilization and how
this integrates into the construction sequencing plan as he feels that this is a significant
component and should be put down before the landscaping goes in. Dan Ciarcia was not sure,
he assumed that the matting would come after the planting. Rob Luntz reiterated that the steel
mesh is important for stabilization and it should be worked into the construction sequence.
Geoff Haynes asks to hear more specific dates regarding the submitted construction sequence
plan. Dan Ciarcia states that excavating the foundation would not be an impediment to access
to Piney Point, so the foundation at 23 Nordica Drive could be expected this fall, before the
frost. The retaining wall at 23 Nordica Drive would also ideally be put in in the fall. Dan Ciarcia
stated that he thinks everyone’s goal is to get these three lots “buttoned up.” Rob Luntz
reiterated that the Planning Board wants to ensure that it is done properly.

1

Dan Ciarcia noted that the public hearing has been open for some time and asked if it could be
closed now and these discussion items could be included in the resolution. Geoff Haynes wants
the neighbors to have some peace after all of the disruption that has gone on for some time.
Dan Ciarcia reports that the Nordica Drive home will go up quickly as it is a standard raised
ranch on concrete foundation. Geoff Haynes asks for confirmation that they think foundation on
23 Nordica will go in this fall. Rob Luntz believes it is very important that the two new homes on
Piney Point are completed. A question arises if the Certificate of Occupancies for the two Piney
Point homes could have conditions relating to this 23 Nordica Drive property. Dan Ciarcia does
not want 23 Nordica to be bound to the two Piney Point lots. There is discussion regarding this
unique situation as access to the Piney Point homes are bound by 23 Nordica Drive. It is
decided that the Planning Board will have to redo the resolutions to capture the intricacies of
this situation and ask Village Attorney Linda Whitehead to review. There are many things to
consider, including that the two Piney Point homes are on different schedules, problems could
arise with supply chain, etc.
Rob Luntz invited comments from the public. Earl De Pass of 10 Nordica drive spoke and
agrees that as much as he and his neighbors want this project to end, they also want it done
right. Mr. DePass liked the idea of connecting the Certificate of Occupancies from the Piney
Point projects to this 23 Nordica Drive project. Mr. DePass would like to extend the public
hearing until Mark Franzoso or the landscape architect show up to answer questions.
Earl DePass reads a question from his neighbor, Russell Davies of 27 Nordica Drive who was
delayed on the train, on his way to this meeting. Russell Davies states, via Earl DePass that
“The erosion control plan incorrectly shows too small an area of disturbance. The hill must be
evacuated behind the retaining wall to build it. There is too small of an area for the temporary
soil stockpile. The entire site has been a long-term soil stockpile for years. The applicant
previously agreed to a wall of modest plantings along the border of 27 Nordica. They are not
shown in the landscape drawings. These are 6–8-foot trees or bushes.” Rob Luntz referenced
the plans and replied that some existing trees next to Mr. Davies’ property are supposed to
remain and some are being added. Rob Luntz does not know what would be different or better
from the homeowner’s point of view. The Planning Board depends on the landscape architect
to determine what is best to plant. Rob Luntz does offer that when you plant under mature
trees, the new plantings do not always do well. Russell Davies now arrives to the meeting. Eva
Thaddeus asks Russell Davies about the trees on his property that are shown on the monitor
and Mr. Davies says that it is an old picture. The trees are small in diameter, too close together
and competing for canopy. Mr. Davies reports that he requested privacy screening a few
meetings ago. Mr. Davies was asking for a line of obscuring foliage that would most likely need
to come from 8 feet down as opposed to 10 feet up which is what is currently existing. Mr.
Davies understood that something would be put in place and he does not see what he expected
on the landscape plan.
Earl DePass states that he knows that the village is planning road work in late September or
early October and wants to know if there is any coordination with this work and the paving of

2

Nordica Drive because the residents want the paving to be done right and do not want new
paving to be ruined if it is completed before construction begins on 23 Nordica Drive.
Russell Davies now brings up what he says may be a minor issue which is the stockpiling of soil
on this site. Mr. Davies says that this site has been a stockpile for years with many types of fill
and debris on the site for as long as the site has been cleared. More importantly, according to
Mr. Davies is a technical observation that the proposed limit of disturbance requires construction
work to not happen where disturbance is not supposed to take place. According to Mr. Davies,
whatever was not supposed to be disturbed was absolutely disturbed.
Mr. Davies also noted that the retaining wall structure that is proposed is a unitized masonry
assembly that requires tie backs and not only does it require tie backs, but to build any retaining
wall you need to excavate the soil down to the footing to create a natural slope to make it safe.
Given the fact that it is a steeped slope site to begin with, the excavation has to take place going
far uphill, so it is not genuine to show the site disturbance as it is on the plans as the entire hill
will have to be carved out to get to the appropriate depth to get to that footing. The angle of
repose is at least a 45-degree angle.
Russell Davies agrees that it seems appropriate that Piney Pont should be completed before 23
Nordica Drive. Rob Luntz reiterates that the Planning Board needs to craft a resolution in a way
that is clear. The Planning Board does not want to inhibit progress but at the same time, things
need to proceed in an organized fashion to ensure that things are done properly, including mesh
stabilization, large scale trees planted, and unfortunately, that could mean that it will take longer
to get started on Nordica Drive.
Lastly, Russell Davies requests that whatever happens on the street, the storm drains need to
be considered. Mr. Davies says that he spoke to the Village Engineer the Board of Trustees
and asked that the storm water system is checked to make sure that it can handle the additional
volume in order to prevent problems down the road, including icing, not to satisfy residents, but
to ensure safety.
Public hearing remains open until next meeting at least. Rob Luntz notes that the landscape
plan looks dense between the neighbor and 23 Nordica Dr. and asks if it can go back to the
landscape architect. Eva Thaddeus tries to clarify if Russell Davies means that the existing
trees are not good quality. Russell Davies says they have no relation to a modesty screen and
clarifies that there are two issues, preservation of trees and modesty. Eva Thaddeus reiterates
that it is difficult to plant under mature trees.
3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Model Accessory Apartment Law
Rob Luntz suggested that the Planning Board wait to discuss this issue until all five members
were present. Eva Thaddeus asked if there was a timeframe when the Village Board would like
to hear back and Dan O’Connor stated that the discussion was early in the stages, and the
village attorney and housing taskforce are also looking into this topic. Westchester County has a
3

model law. Rob Luntz asks if other municipalities have moved forward with this initiative and
Ann Gallelli replies that yes some have, including Town of Cortlandt and Bedford. Ann Gallelli
recommends that the Planning Board read Croton’s Housing Taskforce Report.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from August 9th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of August 9th, 2022,
seconded by, Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 3 -0, with John Ghegan and
Steve Krisky being absent.








5. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMSDan O’Connor reported that he received a PDF with the solar plans for the train station.
He will review and send back for revisions. The project is progressing.
Eva Thaddeus noted that the gate accessing the Half Moon Bay Promenade is not
easier to open. This issue had been raised at a recent meeting. Dan O’Connor will go
and take a look.
Regarding the 25 South Riverside, new plans are being completed and will be sent to
Chazen Engineering for review, and they will come back to the planning board for
amended site plan approval.
The developer at the Katz property is waiting for Health department approval.

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:
38 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

Revised minutes approved 9/13/22by a vote of 3-0. Rob Luntz – yay Eva Thaddeus – yay
Geoff Haynes – yay. Steve Krisky and John Ghegan abstained as they were absent for
the 8/23/22 meeting.

4

