APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, July 26, 2022
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), C. Colombo (133), J. Streany (275), J. Ferguson (164), D. Vlad
(318), B. Powers (474), T. Kaplan (501), W. Skiba (267), G. Tucci (284)
EXCUSED: M. Feminella (162), J. Karpoff (487)
Department Members: S. Bjorge (547), R. Capellazzi (126), A. Conti (135), J. Delaney (350),
T. Dinkler (152)
Others in Attendance: Village Manager Bryan Healy, Trustee Len Simon
Meeting Called to Order by: President John Munson with the Pledge of Allegiance and a
Moment of Silence for Deceased Members at 19:24 due to an alarm. This evening’s meeting
dedicated to the memory of Past Chief Michael Calcutti Jr.
Special Orders of Business:
Manager Healy – Nothing to Report
Trustee Simon - thanked all for their ongoing efforts. Mutual Aid Agreement recently approved
and signed off on. Reports that new washing machine arrived and is awaiting installation.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes: Motion B. Powers/2nd T. Kaplan to
approve 5/22 Minutes – CARRIED. Question from B. Powers regarding changes to By-Law
Article 2 proposal – tabled for committees.
Bills and Communications:
•

Letter from Washington Engine Company advising Bryce Laemmel was approved for PAF
membership at their 7/11/2022 meeting. Motion D. Vlad/2nd J. Streany to approve –
CARRIED.

Reports of the Chiefs
J. Munson (2081)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Marine 32 is still being repaired and should be done on 7/28.
Utility 208 had an accident responding to an alarm, awaiting body work.
Remainder of fleet is in good working order.
New Car 2083 is an ongoing work in progress at First Responder Warning Products.
Most members’ pagers have been reprogrammed, will set up another session to do
them. Metrocom is awaiting parts to make needed changes on our radio system.
Department Recruitment Open House Thursday 7/28. All members asked to attend and
assist.
Numerous department drills and training classes coming up and were shared via email
and on department’s website.
Inspection will be held on Saturday 9/10 at 5pm.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, July 26, 2022
•
•
•

All members must complete new Beneficiary Forms for the “FF Cancer Act” insurance
and turn them in directly to the Village c/o Paula DiSanto.
A steel storage container has arrived at Grand Street Firehouse so we can remove
everything before repair work begins in Engine 118 Bay.
Thanks to all for continuing commitment to the department, it is appreciated.

C. Colombo (2083)
•
•
•
•

Thanks to all for coming out to calls.
Happy Birthday to Doc Skiba.
Meeting Room doors and hallways lights at WECO have been fixed by DPW.
Northern door of Harmon Firehouse repaired. Additional adjustments to all doors is
pending any renovations/work to the Harmon Firehouse.

Reports of Committees
BY-LAWS: J. Streany reports an updated version of the Article 2 proposal from By-Law
Committee is ready for review by the companies. B. Powers expressed concern about missing
wording. Committee to edit this document, make amendments to Article 7 to coincide with the
Article 2 changes before next Council Meeting.
LOSAP: T. Dinkler reports ongoing issues with Records Management system changeover
delaying some entry and reports for LOSAP info.
FUND DRIVE – T. Dinkler reported donations have slowed down, next round of the effort will
commence soon. Total in account to date is $17,179.07.
RECRUITMENT – J. Munson reports help will be needed all day at recruitment effort at
Harmon Firehouse this Thursday night. Need members and all rigs there.
BIG BUCKS – J. Streany distributed tickets to all Companies and sales seems to be going well.
Unfinished Business:
D. Vlad asked about new proposal for Village Property Tax Relief. Discussion followed, Manager
Healy expresses that Board is hesitant to act on it until Governor signs off on it.
Special Business: None
New Business:
J. Munson issued 2% Checks to the five Companies this evening as follows; T. Dinkler
(Chemical), J. Streany (WECO), B. Powers (Harmon), W. Skiba (Hook) and G. Tucci (Patrol).
Treasurer’s Report: $76,525.22 in account per email from P. Dinkler.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad/2nd G. Tucci – CARRIED at 20:46.

M inutes Respectfully Subm itted By John M unson, Council Secretary on 7/ 28/ 22.

