WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Monday, June 27th, 2022 4:45 p.m.

APPROVED
9/21/22

PRESENT  Ms. Ann Gallelli, Chairperson
         Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
         Mr. Len Simon
         Mr. Leo Weigman (Via Speakerphone)

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O'Connor, P.E. Village Engineer

1) CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of June 27th, 2022 to order at 4:53 pm

2) REFERRALS
Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) Consistency Review for HUD funding to replace an existing one hundred foot long retaining wall at 33 Grand Street.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).
There was no CAF submitted for this application.

WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo attached.

MOTION: Stuart Greenbaum made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Len Simon, and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 4-0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Len Simon made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting May 25th, 2022, seconded by Stuart Greenbaum and the motion carried, in favor, by a vote of 3-0 (Leo Wiegman was not present at the May 25th meeting, so did not vote on the minutes).

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:12 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

Approved 9.21.22 Ann Gallelli yay Len Simon yay Leo Weigman yay Stuart Greenbaum absent

Tel: 914-271-4783       www.crotononhudson-ny.gov       Fax: 914-271-3790

---

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman
ANN GALLELLI
Members
STUART GREENBAUM
LEN SIMON
LEO WIEGMAN
Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO:     Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM:   Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:     Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
        Consistency Review for HUD funding to replace an existing one hundred foot long
        retaining wall at 33 Grand Street.

DATE:   June 28th, 2022

On June 27th, 2022, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the above-referenced referal for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP). Based on the review of the 44 LWRP policies and made a recommendation of consistency. The vote was 4-0, all in favor.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies were relevant:

POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and policies.

The replacement of the old cracked retaining wall with a new retaining wall will ensure the long term stability of the ground above the wall and preserve and safe guard vehicle and pedestrian use of Grand Street right of way.

POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity shall be timed so that sprawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversly affected.

POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.

POLICY 37A: Standards and specificatioins for the control of non-point source discharge as set forth in Westchester County's Best Management Practice Manual or other regognized reference shall be utilized during development of any site.

The existing wall is cracked in multiple locations and a new replacement retaining wall will ensure the long term stability of the sloping grouond above the wall. An erosion and sediment control plan using best management practices will be implemented during consturction.

POLICY 13: The construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures shall be undertaken only if they have a reasonable probability of controlling erosion for at least thirty years as demonstrated in design and construction standards and/or assured maintenance or replacement programs.

The proposed redi-rock type concrete unit retaining wall is designed to last greater than 30 years.

The WAC believes that the proposed replacement of the failing retaining wall will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards. Because there are no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider alternative actions or mitigation measures.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783       www.crotononhudson-ny.gov       Fax: 914-271-3790
