                            Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
                                    September 13, 2022, 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:       Robert Luntz, Chairman
                John Ghegan
                Geoffrey Haynes
                Steven Krisky
                Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
                Sherry Horowitz, Village Board Trustee
                 Len Simon, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT: Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee

      1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of Sep. 13, 2022 to order at 7:58 p.m.

       2.       OLD BUSINESS
            a) The Matra Group, LLC – 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Amended Site Plan
               Application &
            b) The Matra Group, LLC – 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Consolidated
               Subdivision Application

Kory Salomone, Anthony Matra, Lou Demasi, and Ralph Alfonzetti were all present in support of this
application to construct an approximately 33,400 square-foot three-story multi-family building on the
property that will consist of 29 units, 18 one-bedroom units, and 11 two-bedroom units. The proposal
includes 50 parking spots, 10 more than the 40 spots that would be required, including four electric car
charging stations. Steve Krisky asks about the level of speed for the charging stations and Anthony Matra
reported that a one-hour charge would get approximately 100 miles, Dan O’Connor believed that this was
a level two. Steve Krisky asked if it would be possible to add additional charging stations later and
Anthony Matra replied that yes, there will be conduits under the driveway.

Lou Demasi describes the building as modern. There are staircases above the roofline that offer access
to solar panels. There are no amenities on the roof. You enter the building through a lobby with an
elevator and staircase to first floor which will have a total of nine apartments, both one and two-bedroom
units. There will be 10 apartments on both the second and third floors, again, a mix of one- and two-
bedroom units. The basement level will have amenities including a gym, event space, locker storage and
bathrooms. The front elevation will be about six-feet lower than the back. The elevator will have a half
stop for handicap accessibility from either the front or rear entrance. Guests will be able to enter the
building through a buzzer system, similar to the one used in the Municipal Building. Access to the roof
will be for maintenance purposes only. The exterior of the building will be a mixture of stone veneer,
stucco siding, natural wood rain screen and metal board & batten siding.

John Imbiano presented a landscape plan. There will be a solid fence next to Route 9, existing trees will
offer screening and a buffer from traffic noise. There will be a low retaining wall to help with parking.
There are diverse species of plantings proposed, ninety percent of which are native to the area. There is
a plan to introduce Norway Spruce as it is drought tolerant and does not appeal to deer. There is a turf
field for functional use and a prairie meadow of native grasses will be introduced. Around Albany Post
Road there will be over 40 shrubs and evergreens. Eva Thaddeus thinks that these choices will do well,
but asks about the prairie grasses and if they will be okay with the septic system. Steve Krisky mentions

                                                                                                             1
that the climate is getting drier and asks if this was a concern. John Imbiano reiterated that the majority of
the plantings were native and says that, it is standard to recommend a sprinkler system for the first year
after planting. Rob Luntz confirms that there are parking lot lights. Rob Luntz also asked about the
placement of the dumpster and was told that it was moved at the request of DPW so that it would be
easily accessible to their trucks backing on to the premises.

Geoff Haynes asked if sidewalk in front of the building was considered. Kory Salomone replied that if the
neighbors to the north and south also put in a sidewalk, The Matra Group would be open to the idea, but
otherwise, he would consider it a waste of money to have a short sidewalk to nowhere. Kory Salomone
also reached out to DOT and DOT was not keen to put a crosswalk mid-block. If there was an
intersection, DOT would consider a crosswalk. Ann Deralis was the regional DOT person who was in
contact with The Matra Group. A discussion continued about a safe way to walk from the property at
1380 Albany Post Road to Food Town, which is on the other side of Albany Post Road. John Ghegan
brought up the previous discussion about the unused trail runs from Scenic Drive to Baltic Place. The trail
was to be maintained by the Westwind HOA, but has not been maintained recently due to lack of use.
Ralph Alfonzetti spoke to Ann Deralis from DOT about this trail. Ralph Alfonzetti also noted that Baltic
Place did not have sidewalks, only at the very top. Rob Luntz asked that this conversation with DOT
regarding a crosswalk continue. Steve Krisky believes that people will walk to the supermarket anyway,
so it is in everyone’s best interest to make it safe.

Steve Krisky made a motion to open a Public Hearing for the Amended Site Plan Application and
Consolidated Subdivision Application at the September 27th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting, seconded by
Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0.

       3. NEW BUSINESS
        a) Local Law Introduction 11 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning Law to expand the Harmon/South
           Riverside Gateway area to modify the regulations for that area to encourage residential
           development

Rob Luntz thought that the proposed amendments give more flexibility to potential developers. The
proposed action would allow multifamily residential development as an additional special permit use in the
HSRG Overlay, at the same maximum FAR (0.8) and height (3 stories/35 feet) currently allowed by
special permit for mixed-use buildings. Dan O’Connor noted particular sites that would benefit from the
change in regulations, including the ET Equipment site across the street from ShopRite. The residential
Wayne Street does not have to be added. Mixed-Use and Multi-Family would be approved by special
permit only in this district, that currently is required to be 50% commercial. Some Planning Board
members thought that mixed-use buildings would be preferable, so that there is public activity on the
ground floor in terms of using a part of the village that is really walkable. It is also noted that the special
permit aspect gives a lot of control to the Village Board. It was noted that this proposed change would
leave residential only buildings as an option, which is something that developers cannot do right now.
Eva Thaddeus mentions that the Croton Housing Taskforce report shows that there is not enough
housing and not enough affordable housing in Croton at the moment. FEAF Part 3 outlined how many
students could potentially be added and accommodated by the school district. Specifically, the Planning
Board would not be in favor of all residential buildings from Oneida Ave. to one parcel south of Benedict
Blvd., on both sides of Riverside Ave. in this district. There are certain areas where it is more valuable to
have a commercial street scape than others. Len Simon says that they are not looking to change the
character of the area. The main thing about changing the code is that it would allow for buildings that are
multi-family only with no commercial space. A special permit would be required for either option.


                                                                                                             2
        b) Local Law introduction 12 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning law to modify the regulations for the
           LI Zoning District in the area near the Metro-North Croton-Harmon Train Station to allow for
           transit-oriented residential development

Geoff Haynes believes that FEAF Part 3 was well done and presented justification for Local Law 12. The
portion of the project area within the LI district consists of four individual tax parcels. The proposed action
would allow the specified parcels in the LI zone, including Village-owned lots, the option to be developed
with new multifamily residential buildings or new mixed-use buildings containing multifamily residential
uses above a ground floor commercial use, at a maximum height of up to five-stories. A special permit
would be required for either option. Rob Luntz asked about the loss of parking spots, and it was reported
that 180 spots were picked up in the lower train station lot when DPW moved. John Ghegan raised a
question about having less parking and more housing.

Steve Krisky asked about the potential for a five-story building blocking the view from the flats of Harmon
and drawings were shown with a mock-up five story building that did not appear to block any views. Len
Simon reminded the group that a five-level building was not a foregone conclusion, but the maximum
allowed.

The Planning Board Members were generally in favor of Local Law 12.

       4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES-

           a) Draft Minutes from August 23rd, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Rob Luntz made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of August 23rd, 2022, seconded by
Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0 with John Ghegan and Steve Krisky abstaining as
they were absent for the August 23rd meeting.


Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board


The September 13th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting Minutes were approved at the September 27 th,
2022 meeting, as revised, with a vote of 3-0. Geoff Hayes – yay, Steve Krisky – yay and Eva
Thaddeus – yay. Rob Luntz and John Ghegan were absent.




                                                                                                              3
