MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Oct. 2, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Dan Columbini
Niall Kelleher
Len Simon
Joel Gingold
Jon Katz

Absent:
Bernie Yozwiak
Brian Pugh

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): Ashley Clemente, Village resident interested in joining the committee,
David Goldman, former committee member, and Jenna Cain, co-hub coordinator for
the Sunrise Movement in Westchester [Jenna did not attend].
Announcements: We thank Dan Colombini for setting up this zoom on his account.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC grants and projects
Washington firehouse solar rooftop: the Village signed CEG’s contract on 7/26. All
paperwork with the Village to start the job was provided on 8/18. On 9/2, NYSERDA
accepted our invoice to secure the 25% initial payment ($22,500) for this project. On
9/13, CEG’s plans were OKed by Con Ed. Next step is for the Village to OK the plans
and issue a building permit. Construction planning will start shortly thereafter.
HP controls proposal: On 8/22, the Village sent a P.O. to Carey & Walsh (C&W). On
9/13, Jon and Bryan Healy separately pushed C&W for a project schedule. On 9/29,
C&W apologized for delays and said it would expedite docs needed to move ahead.
- EV/EVSE
The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) created new options on federal tax credits for EVs. A
list of eligible cars is at https://afdc.energy.gov/laws/inflation-reduction-act. Used EVs
now qualify for a tax credit up to $4,000. See also EV items under “Funding Sources”.
Regarding the train station EV chargers, we reviewed a diagram of the proposed
charger sites and trenching layout that complies with all rules (e.g., ADA) while
minimizing total cost and avoiding existing underground utilities (see map, last page).
[On 10/6, Dan O’Connor reviewed and approved the layout with two changes: move
the panelboard to the other side of the light post, and extent the long trench to the end
of the block of parking spaces used for EVs. Both changes are reflected in the map.]
Rules for our DEC grant app for the chargers and infrastructure allowed counting the
appraised value of 24 EV parking spaces toward the required 20% match. A 9/2
appraisal valued them at $108K, more than enough to cover that match (worth
~$32K). Those rules also allowed us to include 2 years of free charging (worth ~$25K)
in our grant request. Total actual cost will be ~$152K. The grant would cover ~$147K,
exclusive of conduits and trenching (covered by SolSystems).
1

Members discussed various equity issues regarding access to the chargers while
charging is free, and in general. No decisions or policies were settled. Such issues are
moot until we learn if we won the DEC grant. Our grant app was submitted 9/7
(deadline was 9/30). Winners will be notified in 2-3 months.
In early Sept., Village staff asked us to apply for EV grants from DEC for a Ford F-150
Lightning pickup truck and a police sedan (maybe a Tesla). Despite initially being told
by DEC that grant apps could proceed before vehicles were delivered (due to a long
EV production backlog), we were later told that was not true. As a result, those grant
apps will be postponed until the next DEC EV grant cycle starts in June 2023.
On 9/21, the school district announced that its EV bus charger was being installed at
its Transportation Yard on Rt. 129 (next door to Croton’s DPW building).
On 9/25, Croton100 showed several EVs as part of the annual Rotary Club car show.
- Funding Sources/Issues
Several sections of the federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), could help our work.
One section provides:


$27 billion to EPA for a Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund to support projects that
reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, with local governments directly
eligible for $7 billion of total funding to support low-income and disadvantaged
communities in deploying zero-emission technologies, and non-profit institutions
eligible for the entire allotment to provide capital funding for local GHG reduction
projects, to remain available until September 30, 2024 (Sec. 60103).

Len is reviewing this and other options. He will report on them at our Nov. meeting.
Jenna Cain (Sunrise Movement) is prepping an overview of how IRA helps munis.
On 8/12, SW notified us that the NY PSC had authorized new NYSERDA funding for
heat pumps (HP) in ConEdLand. On 9/26, SW emailed that Con Ed HP rebates would
start again in Jan. 2023. Once a PSC proceeding settles later this year, NYSERDA’s
Clean Heat & Cooling program (including all types of HPs) will feature those rebates.
On 10/12, Dan will attend a Galef-sponsored zoom on HPs that may address new
incentives. He will report at our 11/6 meeting. Federal residential HP incentives will
include a rebate ($2K-$5K) and a 30% tax credit, both also starting in Jan. 2023.
On 7/25, the PSC announced expanded PowerReady EV infrastructure incentives in
the Con Ed area. Earlier funding was fully allocated, forcing later applicants (e.g., us)
onto a long wait list. On 8/25, Con Ed told us we could change the status of our
application (submitted last June) from “suspended” to “On Hold”.
Len reported that NY State’s EV infrastructure funding plan was accepted by the US
Dept. of Transportation. NY will get $175M to spend over 5 years to install EVSE. Its
“NEVI Formula Program” has a section for funding local govt. EV infrastructure projects.
- Other Solar Projects/Issues
2

For those already enrolled in the DPW community solar program, consolidated billing
(now called “net crediting”) will soon take effect. The 10% savings will appear on Con
Ed bills as an unexplained monthly “Adjustment”. However, the ~20 Croton residents
(including 6 committee members) that signed up for Community Solar 2.0 last year will
need to wait for slots to open up on other Ecogy solar projects to get the discount.
Train station canopies: SolSystems’ contractor, Core Development Group, diagramed
its water management trenches but they are too far away from the optimal EV
charging site to be useful. The 90% drawings for the project were recently completed.
Croton Landing Park canopies: Because the site will fall within a newly designated
DAC, the IRA may boost its Investment Tax Credit (ITC) from 22% to 40% (maybe
50%). Ecogy recently provided a 170-kW design for canopies over the unpaved
parking area near the boat launch. See rendering at the end of these minutes.
Jon pointed out a potential conflict regarding the support column (“pier”) seen at the
far left of the lower canopy (nearer to the river). It could be a problem for vehicles
approaching or turning around near the boat launch. [On 10/8, Ecogy revised its
design to accommodate that concern. See that layout at the end of these minutes.]
On 8/17, Dan O’Connor clarified the two CSX railroad existing easements that impact
the project. The first involves an operating septic system, ruling out canopies next to
the paved parking area. The second is a right-of-way for a CSX data line. It runs along
the roadway edge of the unpaved area by the boat launch. He suggested re-locating
the piers for that canopy ~5’ further west (toward the river) to avoid it, but that could
consume several parking spaces. He also noted that the data line that would have
used that path was years ago instead located across the street. Lindsay will ask the
Village to ask CSX if it might now relinquish/sell its unused right-of-way.
In early August, Sandy Galef’s office got us answers to questions posed to State
legislative staff earlier this year. They will simplify getting an alienation exemption. The
State’s Parks Dept. and NYPA are now helping us simplify the exemption process.
- Food Scrap Recycling Program
New volunteers are assisting with the program. With the help of CAC, C100, MoF,
etc., recruiting for the 6-month pilot program started [10/7] with a goal of enrolling 40
families by the end of October. On 10/3, the Village OKed the County pick-up contract
to the SMM site in Cortlandt Manor. On 9/24, 50 copies of our program flyer were
given to MoF for its [10/8] Oktoberfest table. Thank you to Joel for his editing help.
DPW is now ordering materials and the service shed. If all goes well, they should be
received and installed by mid-November. They will be distributed by committee
members on Sunday 12/4 at a noon kickoff meeting in the Community Room. All
committee members were asked to attend and assist that effort. Scrap drop-offs
would run from Saturday, Jan. 7 through June 25, 2023 at the end of Pkg. Lot A near
the train station. The first County scrap pickup will be Monday, Jan. 9.
3

As the committee’s photographer, Dave Goldman agreed to take pics of the Dec. 4
meeting and the first drop-off event on Jan. 7. Those pics are needed to meet DEC
grant rules and will help us with our future PR efforts.
Anyone interested in the program should be pointed to our web posting at:
www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sustainability-committee/news/croton%E2%80%99sfood-scrap-recycling-program-starts-january-2023
- Other Reports
Joel summarized an 8/31 zoom with SW wherein it updated CCA issues. Once again,
Constellation Energy will be the supplier, starting Nov. 1. While pricing is considerably
higher than last year, it will likely be lower than Con Ed pricing expected this winter.
Joel also reviewed the State’s Environmental Bond Act (Prop. 1 on the back of the
Nov. ballot). Through his connection with Indivisible, he asked the VB to issue a
supporting resolution for the Act. Len indicated it was very likely to be supported.
Niall updated us on the new community garden to be installed at Gouveia Park. It
involves various improvements, including a new section of road to access the site. He
agreed to provide data on total cost and approximate square footage in case we need
to cite it in our alienation exemption application for Croton Landing Park.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
A July committee recruiting discussion mentioned a “Newcomers Club” that welcomes
new residents as a possible source. A web search found no such club in Croton.
Len engaged and introduced a neighbor (Ashley Clemente) regarding joining our
committee. Ashley moved to Croton 5 years ago. He is a 44-year-old electronics
engineer involved with IT. He looks forward to assisting our efforts.
In August, Lindsay was interviewed by a member of the Sunrise Movement (a national
youth group pushing climate action) for an article on our CEC/CSC activities. Sunrise
promotes those programs and seeks to “establish a youth position on each municipal
Conservation Advisory Board and/or Environmental Committee to ensure proper youth
input and accountability on climate actions”. There are no Sunrise members in Croton.
On 8/25, Lindsay met with Jenna Cain, a high school senior and co-hub coordinator
for Sunrise Westchester. She said Sunrise was willing to help with specific tasks. She
(and other members) will summarize the IRA on its funding options for municipalities
based on a list of questions Lindsay provided to her.
On 9/12, Lindsay zoomed with ~10 Sunrise members to summarize our activities via a
PPt. show. He reviewed how they could help cut their towns’ carbon emissions.
- New Business / Other Issues

4

Len reported on a 9/26 County Climate Week event he attended wherein participation
in the State’s CSC program was discussed. He noted that there are now 100 CSCcertified communities, 19 of which are in Westchester (Croton is Silver-certified).
We discussed participation in the Village’s 125 th anniversary celebration. Joel is on
that committee and will coordinate our committee’s participation, e.g., via Earth Day.
Members were reminded that they must take the annual State-required training in sex
harassment and workplace violence during October, either live on 10/14 or online.
Date for our next zoom meeting was set for Sunday, November 6, at 10:30 AM.

5

6

Below see Ecopy’s revised layout responding to concerns regarding conflicts with the boat launch area.

7

