Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
September 27, 2022, 8:00 p.m.

APPROVED as amended

PRESENT: Geoffrey Haynes
         Steven Krisky, acting Chairperson
         Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
              Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee
              Len Simon, Village Board Trustee

ABSENT: Robert Luntz, Chairman
        John Ghegan

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Acting Chairman Krisky called the Planning Board meeting of Sep. 27, 2022 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2. PUBLIC HEARING
a) The Matra Group, LLC – 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Amended Site Plan Application &
b) The Matra Group, LLC – 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Consolidated Subdivision Application

Geoff Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing for both the Amended Site Plan and Consolidated Subdivision Applications, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 3-0.

Kory Salomone, Anthony Matra, Lou Demasi, and Ralph Alfonzetti were present in support of the application. Geoff Haynes asked if the Matra Group would be operating the building. Anthony Matra stated that yes, the Matra Group would be managing the building and that he has been a landlord of various properties for 25 years.

Ralph Alfonzetti discussed updated plans that were submitted. Changes include a decrease in the number of stairs from the lobby and the raising of the rear parking lot to make it closer to the first floor. Given that the basement space is considered an assembly space, direct access outside is required, so egress stairs were added to both the left and right side of the building.

Lou Demasi noted that all entrances to the building are handicapped accessible. Steve Krisky asked about signage in the front of the building and was told that they were considering options, but at the very least they would have numbers indicating the address displayed for the fire department and EMS. The Planning Board noted that 379 South Riverside Ave had a nicely designed address display. The mailroom is in the lobby area. It has not been determined as of yet where exactly the affordable units will be located.

Kory Salomone was asked if he had anything to add regarding the Consolidated Subdivision Application and he stated that Matra Group planned to use two lots, so it was pretty straightforward.

The Planning Board decided to keep the public hearing open for one more session. Some topics to be discussed next time include the lighting plan and minor revisions on the landscape plan. Additionally, two of the five Planning Board Members were absent from this September 27th meeting. There are four trees that have to come down due to new septic system, and Dan O'Connor will go out to the site to see if they can be replanted. Eva Thaddeus thought that grasses with shallower roots would be more appropriate near the septic area as the septic plan calls for deep seepage pits with concrete slabs covered by 12-18" of soil. Eva Thaddeus pointed out that some of the grasses proposed have much longer roots, and other options should be considered.

Dan O'Connor sent an email to the Hendrick Hudson School District Superintendent and Director of Transportation advising them of this new development in their district. Dan O'Connor will also reach out to the local Fire Department to advise them.

The Public Hearing remains open.

3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Local Law Introduction 11 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning Law to expand the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area to modify the regulations for that area to encourage residential development
b) Local Law introduction 12 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning law to modify the regulations for the LI Zoning District in the area near the Metro-North Croton-Harmon Train Station to allow for transit-oriented residential development

At its regularly scheduled meetings on September 13th and September 27th, 2022, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson reviewed the referrals from the Village Board regarding the proposed Local Laws referenced above. The board noted that the EAF part 3 was a very thorough analysis and a professionally prepared document. A memo dated September 23rd, 2022 from the Planning Board to Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees is attached to these minutes.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES-
a) Draft Minutes from September 13th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of September 13th, 2022, as amended, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0, with Rob Luntz and John Ghegan being absent.

5. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
Steve Krisky asked about the outdoor design center south of the Matra Building on Albany Post Road. Steve Krisky is concerned as he believes that the site looks terrible. A question was asked about the temporary certificate of occupancy that was issued and if it had an end date. Apparently, DOT issued a stop work order. Dan O'Connor will contact the DOT for an update.

6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, Geoff Haynes made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 9:18 p.m., seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 3-0.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

Approved, as amended 10.11.22 by a vote of 3-0. SK, ET and GH yay – RL and JG abstained as they were absent on 9.27.22

---

ATTACHMENT: Memo from Planning Board to Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Planning Board
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman: ROBERT LUNTZ
Members: JOHN GHEGAN, GEOFFREY HAYNES, STEVEN KRISKY, EVA THADDEUS
Attorney: LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer: DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary: KAREN STAPLETON

TO: Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees

FROM: Robert Luntz, Chairman of the Planning Board

RE: Referral from Village Board for a recommendation on Local Law Introduction 11 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning Law to expand the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area and to modify the regulations for that area to encourage Residential development and

Referral from Village Board for a recommendation on Local Law Introduction 12 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning Law to modify the regulations for the LI zoning district in the area near the Metro-North Croton-Harmon Train Station to allow for transit-oriented development.

DATE: September 23, 2022

At its regularly scheduled meeting of September 15th, 2022, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson reviewed the referrals from the Village Board regarding the proposed Local Laws referenced above. The board noted that the EAF part 3 was a very thorough analysis and a professionally prepared document. The Planning Board's recommendations are noted below for each proposed local law.

Local Law Introduction 11 of 2022

The Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay District is proposed to be expanded to include five additional parcels. Two parcels on Clinton Street, two on Wayne Street and one on South Riverside Avenue across from ShopRite. The parcels to be added are shown outlined in red in the image below.

Planning Board is in favor of expanding the Gateway Overlay district to include these additional five parcels as indicated below.

Section 3. Chapter 230 Attachment F, Gateway Districts Location, is amended to add the following Tax Map Lots to the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway District, and these lots are hereby rezoned to be included in the Harmon South Riverside Gateway District.

Tax Map Lots numbered 79 13-1-76, 79 13-1-77, 79 13-1-83, 79-13-1-84, 79 13-2-91

The Planning Board also discussed the elimination of the requirement for the third story to be in the roofline of the building. This requirement typically requires that dormers be added to the roof to provide some additional floor area on the third floor with normal ceiling heights of eight feet in the dormered areas. Third floor apartments built in the roofline have less floor area than second floor apartments and have sloped ceilings in areas near exterior walls with ceiling heights as low as five feet. The smaller floor areas and sloped ceilings with lower heights compared to second floor apartments make the third-floor apartments less spacious and slightly less usable. The elimination of this requirement would allow apartments with the same floor areas and ceiling heights as second floor apartments to be constructed on the third floor including any required AFFH apartments on the third floor. The Planning Board is in favor of the "in the roofline" requirement being eliminated from the Gateway Overlay district requirements.

[1] Maximum floor area ratio (FAR) shall be 0.8.
[2] Maximum height shall be 35 feet/three stories; provided, however, that the third story must be constructed within the roofline of the building.

D. Maximum height. Maximum height shall be as permitted for the underlying zone as provided elsewhere in this Chapter, except for the following:

(1) Maximum height for mixed use or multi-family residential development in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area shall be 3 stories and 35 feet, Provided, however, the third story must be constructed within the roofline of the building, as set forth in §230 20.3B(3) above.
(2) Maximum height for buildings within the C-2 Zoning District in the Municipal Place Gateway area on lots fronting on Municipal Place shall be 3 stories and 35 feet.

The draft local law also proposes to rezone the rear portion of parcel 47 (shown in image below) from RA-5 to C-2.

Section 4. The rear portion of the property known as Tax Map Lot numbered 79.13-2-91 is hereby rezoned from RA-5 to C-2 such that the entire Tax Map Lot is zoned C-2 and the zoning map shall hereby be amended to reflect such change.

The Planning Board notes that parcel 47 is currently a split-zoned parcel with the portion along South Riverside Avenue zoned C-2 and the rear portion zoned RA-5. Section 230-7A(4) (see below) of the Zoning Code addresses lots that have split zoning.

(4) In all cases where a lot in one ownership is divided by a district boundary and more than 50% of the area of such lot lies in the less restricted district, the regulations prescribed by this chapter for the less restricted district shall apply to such portion of the more restricted district. For the purposes of this section, the more restricted district shall be deemed that district which is subject to regulations which either prohibit the particular uses permitted in the district covering the remaining portion of said lot or which require higher standards with respect to setback, coverage, yards, screening, landscaping and similar requirements.

The latest site plan (see image of portion of site plan below) for parcel 47 indicates that greater than 50% of the parcel is zoned C-2 so as per section 230-7A(4) of the Zoning Code the C-2 regulations would currently apply to the rear portion of parcel 47. The rezoning of the entire parcel to C-2 would make the applicable zoning regulations clear on the zoning map and for those intending to develop the parcel. The Planning Board is in favor of the rezoning of the rear of parcel 47 to C-2.

ZONE AREA CALCULATION
LOT #1 AREA (C-2 ZONE): 142,649.45 S.F.
LOT #1 AREA (RA-5 ZONE): 141,331.37 S.F.
LOT #1 TOTAL AREA: 183,980.82 S.F.
LOT #1 AREA (C-2 ZONE): 142,649.45 S.F. / 83,980.82 = 507 x .00 = 50.79 %
LOT #1 AREA (RA-5 ZONE): 141,331.37 S.F. / 83,980.82 = 492 x .00 = 49.21 %

VILLAGE ZONING CODE SECTION 230-7(A)(4): IN ALL CASES WHERE A LOT IN ONE OWNERSHIP IS DIVIDED BY A DISTRICT BOUNDARY AND MORE THAN 50% OF THE AREA OF SUCH LOT LIES IN THE LESS RESTRICTED DISTRICT, THE REGULATIONS PRESCRIBED BY THIS CHAPTER FOR THE LESS RESTRICTED DISTRICT SHALL APPLY TO SUCH PORTION OF THE MORE RESTRICTED DISTRICT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THIS SECTION, THE MORE RESTRICTED DISTRICT SHALL BE DEEMED THAT DISTRICT WHICH IS SUBJECT TO REGULATIONS WHICH EITHER PROHIBIT THE PARTICULAR USES PERMITTED IN THE DISTRICT COVERING THE REMAINING PORTION OF SAID LOT OR WHICH REQUIRE HIGHER STANDARDS WITH RESPECT TO SETBACK, COVERAGE, YARDS, SCREENING, LANDSCAPING AND SIMILAR REQUIREMENTS.

The proposed local law would allow buildings containing multifamily residential uses as an additional special permit use in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay district at the same maximum FAR (0.8) and height (3-stories/35 feet) currently allowed by special permit for mixed-use buildings.

(3) In the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway District area, mixed use or multi-family residential buildings, by special permit of the Village Board of Trustees, subject to the following requirements and criteria and to the requirements/criteria contained in Article X of this chapter:

D. Maximum height. Maximum height shall be as permitted for the underlying zone as provided elsewhere in this Chapter, except for the following:

(1) Maximum height for mixed use or multi-family residential development in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area shall be 3 stories and 35 feet, Provided, however, the third story must be constructed within the roofline of the building, as set forth in §230 20.3B(3) above.

The Planning Board discussed the new multi-family use compared to the currently allow mix-use which allows apartments on the second and third floors and rear portion of the first floor. The requirement in mixed-use buildings to locate the apartments in the rear portion of the first floor maintains the commercial nature and streetscape of the Harmon business district and provides a diversity of business uses at the same time giving property owners flexibility in allowing residential uses on a portion of the first floor.

The current proposed revision to all multi-family instead of mixed-use building may over time change the Harmon business district into a business district with large multi-family buildings having no commercial store fronts.

One example would involve parcels 8, 9 and 10 which are under single ownership. Redevelopment of these parcels as a group could allow for a large multi-family building in the middle of the Harmon Business District and result in a good portion of the block with no commercial store fronts.

The Planning discussed the option of prohibiting the proposed multi-family use from certain areas of the Harmon/South Riverside Avenue gateway overlay district. This concept was used when rezoning the North Riverside neighborhood area as shown in the image below from the Municipal Place Gateway and North Riverside Neighborhood Zoning Study (October 2019). Multi-family buildings were prohibited in the core business area, C-1R(A) zoning district, and limited to the transition areas, C-1R(B) zoning district, leading into the core business area.

The Planning Board discussed areas of the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay District that should NOT have multi-family use as an allowed use and believes that this area should be along South Riverside Avenue from Oneida Avenue to one parcel south of Benedict Boulevard, the area is outlined with a heavy dashed red line in the image below.

Local Law Introduction 12 of 2022

The proposed local law would allow buildings containing multifamily residential uses as an additional special permit use in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay district at the same maximum FAR (0.8) and height (3-stories/35 feet) currently allowed by special permit for mixed-use buildings.

Tel: 914-271-4783     www.crotononhudson-ny.gov     engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov
