VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2022

PRESENT: Jim Tuman, acting Chairperson
Doug Olcott
Rocco Mastronardi
Daron Weber
ABSENT:

Christine Wagner

ALSO PRESENT: Ronald Wegner, PE, Assistant Village Engineer
Alejandro Rosales, Trustee Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Acting Chairman Tuman, called the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting to order at 8:05 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Sena, Kenneth—15 Finney Farm Road—Located in a RA-40 Residential District and designated
on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.19 Block 2 Lot 8. Request for a
side yard variance from Section 230-33A for an existing primary structure (residence) and a height
variance from Section 230-40(1)(a) for an accessory structure (pool house).
PRESENT: Ken Sena, Owner

Mr. Sena introduced himself to the Zoning Board of Appeals and began by explaining that he had
purchased the house located at 15 Finney Farm two years ago and began renovations. The
applicant stated the house was built in 1951 and described it as being fairly modern and small at a
total of 1400 sqft. Mr. Sena stated that prior owners had extended the downstairs to increase
living space but that the original intention of the house was to be a floating design. Mr. Sena
shared that he wanted to preserve the original character of the house and that through research, he
came to find that the previous owners also did an extension on the house on one side adding a
stairwell to further expand the footprint of the house. Mr. Sena further explained that the
stairwell connected the top story to the bottom story, that the expansion was done approximately
20 years ago of which a building permit application was filed but it was never approved by the
Village. The applicant shared with the Board that during his renovations, he took down the work
from the previous owners so that the house went back to its original footprint. Mr. Sena then
referenced a picture in which he explained where the newer siding can be seen, there are lallycolumns that support the house and that the previous owners enclosed that to create livable space
and then “punctured through” the basement creating a hallway to walk through and then on the far
1

side added 2-story stairwell which was never approved with the Village. Mr. Ron Wegner,
Assistant Village Engineer explained to the Board that the requested side yard variance is one of
the two variances being requested and that the side yard setback variance would be for the
legalization of putting the original porch back on the house.
The Board clarified that there was an original porch that had been taken down and then Mr. Sena
rebuilt the porch. The Board asked if there was ever a variance for the original porch. Mr.
Wegner stated that the previous owners had applied for a variance for the original porch but it had
never been granted. Mr. Sena added that the previous owners around 1980 had taken off the porch
and replaced it with the 2-story stairwell as described earlier.
Mr. Sena then introduced the second requested variance. The applicant explained that the original house
was a 1400 sq ft house and that the previous owners had a big pool added in the mid 80’s. Mr. Sena stated
that he took out the original pool and wanted to replace it with something more consistent with the style of
the house, creating a little more square footage, a small garage and a smaller pool that is approximately
half the size (allowing for the additional sq. footage). The applicant explained that the new structure is
about 700 Sq Ft with a 3 car garage underneath and that this new structure meets all setback requirements
but exceeds height limitation. Therefore, Mr. Sena is also requesting a height variance of 2’ft for the pool
house.
Acting Chairman Tuman then asked the Board if they had any further questions for the applicant. With no
further questions from the Board, Mr. Tuman opened the public meeting.
Mr. John McKeon of 25 Prospect Place spoke from the audience.
Mr. McKeon asked for clarification on the exact distances of the side yard variances being requested; he
also asked if with the slope of the property water mitigation has been included in the plan. Mr. McKeon
then stated that he had trouble with stairs and that the elevator was not accessible in the building for the
meeting and wanted to add that to his observation.
Mr. Wegner then returned to explain the specifics of the side yard variance stating that there is a minimum
side yard requirement of 30’ft and showing with a visual, the rear corner of the existing house and location
of the deck. Mr. Wegner stated that the applicant is looking to legalize an existing condition (the deck) and
that the deck is 12.5’ ft from line so the side yard variance would be approximately 17.5’ft. Mr. Wegner
then addressed Mr. McKeon’s inquiries about the mitigation for impervious coverage. Mr. Wegner
explained that where Mr. Sena is placing the garage used to be the location of a pool and deck therefore Mr.
Sena is essentially replacing an impervious area. Mr. Sena added for clarification that the deck is now
where the 2-story stairwell addition was that the previous owners added without approval; that he removed
that structure and put back the original deck restoring it to its 1951 state and is requesting a side yard
variance for the original deck. Mr. Sena then addressed the impervious area explaining that that was a very
large pool there which is now essentially the area of the garage and the garage is a 2-story structure that
now requires a height variance.
The Acting Chairman asked Mr. Wegner if this would have to go to the Planning Board as well. Mr.
Wegner stated that it does not require Planning Board approval and that the Village Engineering
2

Department would examine the drainage and look for mitigation if there is an increase in impervious
coverage.
Acting Chairman Tuman asked Mr. McKeon, if what was explained, answered his question. Mr. Mckeon
responded by saying “sure.” Mr. Sena added that he hired a Site Engineer who worked on the project.
And that the slab is pinned to bedrock and they retrenched the area and installed proper french draining

Acting Chairman Tuman asked if there was any additional comment from the public and hearing no further
comment, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals discussed and reviewed the five factors:

1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that the deck is not problematic as it is a condition that has existed since
1951 and was a part of the original design of the house. In reference to the height variance, the Board noted
that the applicant is aware that he does not want the roof to obstruct his own view or his neighbors and the
peak of the pool house would not change the character of the neighborhood. It was also noted that the
neighbors are in support of the project.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that the applicant was legalizing a pre-existing condition and the
height variance allows for an office space to be achieved over the garage.

3.

The requested variance is substantial.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 17.4’ft and height variance of
5’ft, seconded by Mr. Mastronardi. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. Roll Call: Mr.
Tuman, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes and Mr. Weber, yes (Chairperson Wegner,
Absent).

3

b) Braunstein, Eric—128 Cleveland Drive—Located in a RA-9 Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 3 Lot 31.
Request for a front yard variance from Section 230-33A for a front porch.
PRESENT: Eric Braunstein, Owner
John Power. Architect

Eric Braunstein introduced himself to the Board as the owner of the property located at 128 Cleveland
Drive. Mr. Braunstein explained that he is planning a renovation and addition to his home and that he
is requesting a variance for a front porch. Mr. Braunstein stated the proposed covered porch will extend
8’ft beyond the minimum setback and that there is a current concrete stoop in the front so they will only
be increasing the area by approximately 3’ft. Mr. Power, the architect for the project, introduced
himself and explained that the house is a cape cod style home and as with many of his projects in
Croton, the homes have been built right on the front yard setback. Mr. Power discussed the benefits
and enjoyment of a front porch especially during the pandemic and that if keeping with the
neighborhood everyone should have the privilege of a front porch. Mr. Power described the curves in
Cleveland Drive and noted that the porch may be out in front of the property but because of the curves
in the road, the porch will not be offensive. Mr. Power stated they are seeking to put an 8’ft covered
porch and added that due to the large addition that will be done, the porch helps to break up and soften
the size of the addition.
The Board then asked the applicant how many square feet the addition will be and how the addition
compares to the current size of the home. Mr. Braunstein stated that the current footprint is 30’x30’ft
and they will be adding 26'ft by 28’ft. Mr. Power added that the current house is approximately 911 sq
ft and it will increase to 1,748 sq ft. and that the porch is not part of it. The Board verified that the
addition is as of right and no variances would be required for the addition, the only variance needed is a
front yard variance for the proposed covered porch. It was also clarified that the front steps to the porch
do not count as part of the variance as the steps do not require a variance.
Acting Chairman Tuman asked the Board if they had questions for the applicant. As the Board did not
have questions for the applicant, acting Chairman Tuman opened the meeting to the public.
Mr. Bill Goldsmith of 132 Cleveland Drive spoke in favor of the variance to allow for the front porch,
stating that he lives next to Mr. Braunstein and that they reviewed the plans a couple of weeks ago and
believes that the project and porch will be a great improvement to the neighborhood.
Hearing no further comment, the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

4

The board discussed and agreed that the porch would be an improvement to the neighborhood especially in
light of the large addition. It was agreed that the porch will create a better street presence and that the porch
will help to break up the massiveness of the addition.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance.
The Board discussed that there is no other feasible way to move the porch in a way that doesn't require a
variance because of the location of the existing garage.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
The Zoning Board noted that the original improvements were built to setback therefore any front
porch would require a variance.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental
conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Weber made a motion to grant an 8’ft front yard variance for a front porch seconded by Mr.
Tuman. The motion was carried by a vote of 3-0. Roll Call: Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Olcott,
yes. Mr. Mastronardi abstained. (Chairperson Wegner, Absent).

c) Conte, Victor—68 Grand Street—Located in a RA-5 Residential District and designated on the
Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.8 Block 6 Lot 64. Request for a total side
yard variance from Section 230-33A for an addition.
PRESENT: Mr. Victor Conte, Owner
Mr. Lou DeMasi, Architect
Mr. DeMasi introduced himself to the Board and explained what Mr. Conte is looking to construct a proposed
addition that will infill the back corner of the house to create a larger dining area. Mr. DeMasi stated that they
have tried to stay within the existing side yard setback facing the east side and staying in line with the end of
the house. Mr. DeMasi explained the addition will not extend past any part of the existing house, it is just infilling and they are therefore seeking a total side yard variance 2.74’ ft. Mr. DeMasi stated the footprint of the
house will only increase by about 150 sq ft by in-filling the corner and that they will be taking down a portion
of an existing addition to rebuild with the infilling of the corner. The applicant then stated they will be adding
a deck as well but that the deck is conforming and does not require a variance.
Mr. Wegner explained that the new roof dormer is only raising the roof up 3’ft to increase needed head room
and that the dormer roofline will match the roofline in the rear of the house. The Board noted that they will
be matching the front section of the room and that the roof addition will not be going any higher than what
already exists. The Board asked if the existing addition was originally granted a variance. Mr. Wegner
5

explained that the only portion of the house that would have required a variance was for the front entrance but
was already there and based on the age it was built under prior zoning code and would be compliant.
The Board discussed the addition of the deck and reiterated that because the new deck will be narrower than
the house and meets the required side yard setback it therefore does not require a variance. Mr. DeMasi
shared that there was of pulling the addition back by 2’ft but if the addition was reduced by 2’ft to meet
Zoning it would make the room too narrow and that if the room was reduced to 8’ft in width it would not
work as a dining room so the decision was made to leave it wider and request a variance. It was concluded
that only the L shaped piece of the addition requires a variance because of the combined setbacks.
The Acting Chairman asked if the Board had any additional questions for the applicant. There being no
further questions from the Board, Mr. Tuman opened the meeting to the public.
Mr. John Kneer residing at 66 Grand Street addressed the Board.
Mr. Kneer stated that Mr. Conte built the house next door to him from the ground up and that they had had
conversations about the times in which the construction work would take place within the Village ordinances.
He stated that every week Mr. Conte had different contractors working at all hours and days including
working at night. John stated that when confronting the contractors about their work times, they told John
that Mr. Conte said they could work at those times.
Mr. Wegner explained the enforcement procedure for work hours and explained noise complaints would be a
police department issue because construction hours are governed by noise ordinances. Mr. Wegner
encouraged the neighbor to document such cases and call police and share complaints.
Ms. Kathleen Parker of 70 Grand Street, Croton-on-Hudson then spoke.
Mrs. Parker wanted to emphasize the points made in her written letter to the Board opposing the project
stating that the new addition will ruin her winter views. Ms. Parker also stated that the new porch and railings
will further ruin winter views. Ms. Parker shared that there had been previous incidents of not caring for the
property such as not shoveling in winter months and not maintaining the property. Ms. Parker stated that rain
pours off the roof of the house to the east side “like Niagara Falls” and that she has not seen remediation for
the water. Ms. Parker expressed that she felt the construction work will create dirt, noise, pollution which
would impede on the sale of her house. Ms. Parker stated that the air conditioning unit will be placed right
next to her property near her garage and said she wanted the central AC unit to be moved to another area. Ms.
Parker then stated that she hasn’t seen a plan about lights for the proposed project and feels there will be light
pollution and stated that overall, she feels the plan is incomplete. Ms. Parker concluded by stating that Mr.
Conte’s property was rented for years and he knew for 3 years that she was moving and now that she needs to
sell her house it is absurd that he will be doing a renovation.
Mr. John McKeon of 28 Prospect then spoke on the 68 Grand Street application.
Mr. McKeon summarized what had been shared by Ms. Parker, claiming the case involved a non-conforming
house that was there prior to Zoning. Mr. McKeon stated his opinion that there is no hardship on the part of
the owner's proposal in terms of the expansion of the usable portion of his residence. Mr. McKeon stated that
it's been a testimony of a neighbor that it will obstruct their natural view of the Hudson River. Mr. McKeon
6

stated that zoning laws are to be enforced when hardship is presented but he did not see a hardship in this
case.
The Board responded to Mr. McKeon’s statement by sharing that the Zoning Board of Appeals considers all 5
key factors when examining zoning variances.
The Board expressed confusion about statements made specifically regarding the alleged loss of views if Mr.
Conte’s proposed addition will not be built higher than the height of the current structure. Architect, Mr.
DeMasi clarified that the addition is one-story and the deck is pushed inward so there will not be
obtrustruction of views. Furthermore, there was confusion about a statement made by the public that there is
an occupant on the bottom floor of Mr. Conte’s property. However it was determined that there currently is
no one living in the house. Mr. Conte added that after the renovation and proposed addition to the property
are complete, he will be living in the property himself and it will no longer be a rental property.
The Board reminded the neighbors that the deck is not at play as there is no variance needed for the
construction of the deck. Mr. DeMasi concluded by sharing that the goal is to make improvements on the
property.
It was determined by the Board that a site visit would be best to conduct prior to making a decision on the
application. Ms. Parker stated that she would like to be notified of the scheduled site visit so that she can be
present. Mr. Tuman stated that the Board would set the application aside and the public hearing will remain
open and will adjourn at the October Zoning Board meeting.

d) Rillosi, Antonio—123 North Riverside Avenue—Located in a RB 2-Family Residential District
and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.2 Block 4 Lot
10.01. Request for a rear yard variance from Section 230-34 for a proposed new single-family
dwelling.
PRESENT: Antonio Rillosi, Applicant
Mr. Rillosi opened by discussing the new construction of a single-family home on the lot located at
123 North Riverside Avenue. Mr. Rillosi stated that the project involves constructing an open
parking area (carport and not a garage). The applicant shared that he and his team were looking at the
project together and saw that the parking area/carport will be closer than the 30’ ft requirement but
that the house is far from the property line and therefore have discussed either detaching the carport
area or attaching it to the main structure. Mr. Rillosi explained that the team felt that if the carport
was detached, it would change the design aesthetic of the home; however, if detached it would not
require a variance.
The Board asked the applicant what was on the property. Mr. Rillosi shared on the back of the
property there was a garden/vegetation and it’s a very beautiful property. Mr. Rillosi added that there
was once a small pool on a portion of that property.
The Board noted that there was a previous and rather recent variance granted for the frontage of the
property and that it was the first step to legalize the entrance of the lot. Mr. Wegner added that the
7

previous granted variance will carry with the sale of the property. A member of the public made a
comment about the history of the property and 3 parcels being combined. The Board interjected and
reminded the individual that they will have a chance to speak when the meeting is opened to the
public.
The Board noted that 123 N Riverside Ave was a flag lot that had the lot frontage legalized with a
variance. Mr. Wegner discussed a brief history of the lot, sharing that it went for Planning Board
approval and it will have to go back to the Planning Board for a Minor Site Plan approval. It was
then noted that the previous Planning Board approval had approved a larger, taller residence and that
the new design presented by Mr. Rillosi is a smaller home than what was originally approved by the
Planning Board. In addition to the downsized design, Mr. Wegner explained that the requested
variance is solely to attach the carport to the rear of the structure and that the house is “as-of-right”
and if the proposed carport were to be detached, it would become an accessory structure and only
need to be located 5’ ft from property line (without a variance). The Board examined the house plans,
and asked why the design was changed. The applicant explained that he was not involved with the
previous owner’s design and that he is purchasing the property with the previous approval. Mr.
Rillosi elaborated, explaining that he is buying the property knowing that the lot was approved for a
bigger house but they do not want a tall house and have designed something completely different with
larger pieces of glass to improve the views of the river and woods.
The Board asked why the design with the carport attached to the house. Mr. Rillosi responded that
the roof over the carport and vertical wall creates a plus sign that is an important design element of
the house. Mr. Rillosi stated that they wanted the plus sign and if you take it out by detaching the
carport, they would not be able to achieve the same architecture.
The Board asked the applicant to explain the topography of the property. The applicant referenced
drawings and said the property slopes and that there is a wall that is appx 7-8’ft tall. The Board
sought to better understand how the topography, house/carport would impact the neighbors. At that
time, the Board determined that it would be best to hold a site visit to gain a better understanding of
the lot and what the applicant is seeking to achieve. Mr. Tuman stated that they will open the public
hearing and then schedule a site visit.
Mr. Tuman asked the Board if they had any questions for the applicant before opening the public
hearing. The Board did not have additional questions and the public hearing was opened.
The members of the public were asked to state their names and addresses.
Ms. Rebecca Backerman-Appleyard of 127 North Riverside Avenue spoke first. Ms. BackermanAppleyard stated that her house is an old home with a historical background and that has been in her
family for over 50 years. Ms. Backerman-Appleyard shared that she never received notification for
the initial Planning Board meeting held that granted approval for the original house to be built and
therefore without notice, did not have the opportunity to speak on the application. Ms. BackermanAppleyard discussed her concerns with the construction of the house and carport and the negative
impacts it would have on neighboring properties including the steep slope and runoff from 123 N.
Riverside Avenue. Ms. Backerman-Appleyard stated concerns about the removal of mature trees and
vegetation that currently help to hold soil and the drainage issues that would be caused by the paving
of the driveway specific to the runoff from driveway down the steep incline to the rear of her property
8

and the impacts it may have on her retaining wall. Ms. Backerman-Appleyard further expressed
concerns about water service pressure to the surrounding homes as well as the cosmetic and
structural damage to her basement and property and stated that the cost of repair would be
“astronomical.” Ms. Backerman-Appleyard concluded her statement by requesting that her concerns
be included in the minutes and “to act as putting the Village on notice” and stated that if there are
drainage issues she will “hold the Village responsible for approving the construction and seek
restitution.”
The Board thanked Ms. Backerman-Appleyard for her comments and then asked Mr. Wegner to
explain the planning process to the public so that they have an understanding as to what is to be
expected and next steps. Mr. Wegner stated that minor site plan approval from the Planning Board
does not require public notice; however it will be before the Board and is on the agenda. The Board
shared with Ms. Backerman-Appleyard that they understand her concerns and those related to
drainage issues are under the purview of the Planning Board and that the Zoning Board does not get
involved with that aspect of proposed projects.
The Board confirmed and reiterated that they (Planning Board) would best address their concerns
regarding drainage and that it is important that they know when the next meeting will be held and
were advised to sign-up for the e-notifications from the Village regarding Board meetings and other
important events.
Next, John McKeon of 25 Prospect Place shared his concerns with the Zoning Board regarding the
construction of the new, proposed house at 123 N. Riverside Avenue.
Mr. McKeon stated that when the building of a house at the site first came up, he was not notified and
learned about it from his neighbors. Mr. McKeon stated that there were 3 properties that he believes
were never designed to be building lots were then consolidated to now build on. Mr. McKeon stated
that the applicant is representing themselves as the purchaser of the property from the previous owner
who sat before the Board and proposed that they needed to build a house and was granted a variance
by the Village to allow for a driveway to a flag lot that did not meet the 20’ft requirements to a street.
Mr. McKeon then stated that the Village determined by approval that anyone who built on the lot and
down the 300’ft long driveway would not be able to shovel or plow snow and that snow would have
to be removed by dump truck. Mr. McKeon stated that another determination by the Village was that
300’ ft hoses would not be able to encircle the home in the case of a fire and it was then proposed to
install a private hydrant on the property. Mr. McKeon went on to discuss that the Village also
determined that house will be on a rock ledge and now the location of the proposed carport will be in
the location where the rain mitigation area for the roof was going to be originally placed and that the
original proposed garage was not going to be located adjacent to the house because they couldn’t
mitigate the water so they then proposed the garage down at the left corner of the property. Mr.
McKeon concluded that this case has been a fiasco in that the Village has approved non-compliant
flag lots as well as in creating a driveway that runs between two houses that sit on a NYS highway for
years.
Ms. Backerman-Appleyard, 127 North Riverside Ave. spoke as stated that the construction of the
house will change the character of the neighborhood and create sound and light pollution and that it
would be a detriment to the neighborhood specifically in the case of fire. Ms. Backerman-Appleyard
stated that between her house and the property are all woods and would act as kindling. The acting
9

Chairman reminded the public that the application being presented at the ZBA meeting is solely for
the carport. Ms. Backerman-Appleyard stated that she understood that but wanted her concerns heard
and on record because she had not had a previous opportunity to express them.
Christine Corrado, 133 North Riverside Ave shared with the Board that while she understands that
her comment does not have to do with the carport application, she wanted to share that the majority of
the driveway to the proposed home would be located behind her house which is an extremely steep
slope that would have to be leveled with retaining walls. Ms. Corrado shared that the Planning Board
walked through the site on a dry day but that when it rains, the runoff is terrible. Ms. Corrado shared
with the Board that many years ago, they had to build a large retaining wall to help mitigate the
runoff and it cost them over $40,000.
The Board shared that the approved site plans by the Planning Board are available online and
suggested that they look at the approved plans to see what will be put in place for drainage.
Mr. Mckeon asked if the previous Zoning Board variance granted for the driveway was ever given to
and approved by the state. In response, it was shared that ZBA’s position was that the driveway preexisted. Mr. Wegner explained that the existing driveway was there to serve a neighboring residence.
Mr. Wegner clarified for the Board that there is not an existing house on the property but that there
was an approved 4 ½ story house. The Board stated that they would set up an official site visit to
better understand the lot and impact on the neighbors. The neighbors present at the meeting requested
that they be notified of the scheduled site visit and it was noted that residences will be contacted via
email to be included in the official site visit.
Ms. Corrado shared there was a lawsuit involving Ms. Salco and the Brennan’s and the driveway of
the property. Ms. Backerman-Appleyard shared that she would be leaving her written statement,
pictures and article referencing the Supreme Court case.
Acting Chairman Tuman asked if there were any additional comments.
Mr. Mckeon asked to please make note to have the elevator in the Municipal Building be accessible
to the public so that it can be ADA compliant.
Mr. Tuman thanked the public for their comment and stated that the public hearing will remain open.
The applicant, Mr. Rillosi was told that the Zoning Board secretary would reach out to schedule the
site visit and that the application would be on the October 12, 2022 meeting agenda.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
It was decided by the Board to postpone the approval of the Minutes of May 11, 2022, June 8,
2022 and July 13, 2022 until Chairperson Wagner is present

5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:45 p.m.
10

