Special Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Tuesday October 11, 2022 in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Assistant to Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Simon
Trustee Horowitz

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 9:00am. Everyone joined in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
Resolution #146 of 2022
On motion of Trustee Simon, seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the State of New York Unified Court System is soliciting applications
from local governments under the Justice Court Assistance Program (JCAP) to assist
local Justice Departments with needed equipment, automation, furniture, supplies
and training; and
WHEREAS, the funding available under the Justice Court Assistance Program would
facilitate local efforts in upgrading the Court’s HVAC system,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of the Village of Croton-onHudson authorizes the Croton-on-Hudson Village Court to apply for a JCAP grant in
the 2022-2023 grant cycle up to $26,050.
DISCUSSION
Village Manager Healy explained that at last week’s meeting, a resolution was on
the agenda to use monies from the contingency account to upgrade the HVAC
system in the court, as it is failing. It was brought to Manager Healy’s attention that
state funding is available to cover the improvements. The aforementioned
resolution was tabled, and Manager Healy worked with Court Clerk Lisa Teichman to
consolidate the grant application materials. Part of the application requires a formal
resolution from the Board. As the application is due on Friday, October 14, and the
next Board meeting will not take place until Monday, October 17, a special meeting
was requested to ensure the resolution is completed in time for the application
deadline.

Village Trustees Board Special Meeting
October 11, 2022
Page 2

Trustee Simon stated that the scope of the funding would cover both the court and
the jury room, and that it is a good effort toward the modernization of Village
facilities.
Trustee Horowitz and Trustee Gallelli stated their support for the application.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by Trustee Horowitz
and approved with a 4-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:07am
Respectfully submitted,
Emily Mancini, Assistant to the Village Manager

2

