Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, October 3, 2022, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Rosales
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:03 pm. Everyone joined in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, claims numbered 22231231 to 22231450. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Rosales and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$98,601.15
$14,384.82
$4,078.85
$81,018.28
$1,255.29

3. PUBLIC HEARING:
Continuation of a Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
11 of 2022 and Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2022 to amend Chapter
230 of the Village Code, entitled “Zoning” in relation to the Harmon/South
Riverside Gateway District and the Light Industrial District.
Adam Decker, 13 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
supports the Local Laws, he believes that the Planning Board did a very
extensive thorough analysis of their proposed recommended changes
which include the ability for extra commercial space in the Harmon
Gateway. Mr. Decker added that the Transit-Oriented Development has
the opportunity to add market rate apartments which we know are sorely
missing in Croton.
Trustee Simon stated that Mr. Decker chaired our Housing Task Force
Study and what we are proposing is due in part to the work of that

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 2

committee and we are encouraged that any new building would have at
least a ten percent affordability component.
Village Manager Healy stated that at our last meeting a question was
raised regarding the change in assessed valuation for those properties
located within the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay District.
Village Manager Healy explained that the Gateway District consists of 43
parcels, the 2012 Assessment Roll shows that these parcels had a
combined assessed valuation of $652,030, 10 years later, the 2022
Assessment Roll, showed a combined assessed valuation of $751,100,
and we can see that over the past decade the valuation of these parcels
has increased by almost $100,000, or 15.2%, much of this can be
attributed to the new mixed-use building at 379 South Riverside Avenue,
which in 2012 was assessed at $21,000 and in 2022, the parcel was
assessed at $100,000.
Village Manager Healy advised that since our last meeting he received the
following letters: Westchester County Planning Board letter dated
September 16, 2022 stating that they are generally in support of the
Local Laws, but they have a concern for the need for “complete streets”,
memo from the Waterfront Advisory Committee dated September 22,
2022 indicating that they found the Local Laws to be consistent with the
Village’s LWRP, memo from the Village’s Planning Board dated September
23, 2002 recommending that the Board consider not allowing all
residential buildings in the area between Oneida and one parcel south on
Benedict, (See page 8 of the Planning Board’s memo), and that it is
important to keep a portion of the Harmon Business District strictly
commercial with the opportunity to have mixed use on the upper floors.
Village Manager Healy stated that the Village Board needs to decide if
they wish to make any changes to the current Law or proceed with the
Law as it is currently written.
Croton Planning Board Memo:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202210/62fe858a7da0665fec558a67acfc652c8cdd0a17.pdf
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 3

Waterfront Advisory Committee Memo
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202209/124f28327868b0e880a5e70093d9210e5a02190e.pdf
Westchester County Planning Board Memo
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202209/764a7f9721aca910711191696afdbe838728d5e7.pdf
Written Comment:
Memo from Nance Shatzkin, 132 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson,
states that as President of the Croton Housing Network she is writing in
support of the zoning changes that would allow the addition of housing
units on the old “upper lot” at the railroad station, the potential for mixed
income housing on that property, which by law would also include
affordable units, would be a plus for the community and all who were able
to live there, we are suffering an acute housing shortage in Westchester
County, and this proposed change and development offers a fantastic
opportunity for the Village to help and urged the Board’s support for the
necessary changes.
Mayor Pugh asked Village Attorney Whitehead what impact would there
be on the timeline for adopting the current proposed Local Law if we
considered the suggestion from the Planning Board and would we need
any additional studies from AKRF?
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that if the Board were to amend the
Local Law, we would have to re-notice it because it is a substantive
change, Village Attorney Whitehead did not believe that we would need an
additional study as long as we leave those certain areas where they are
for mixed use which what it is now.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she was present at the Planning Board meeting
when this was discussed, the Planning Board’s concerns are about
development and would like to hear AKRF’s thoughts on the reality of
development there.
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 4

Aaron Werner of AKRF stated that the Planning Board’s suggestion would
reduce the potential development, but it is up to the Village if they would
like them to “re-package” that or keep it as is. Mr. Werner stated that the
Village looked at this because there has been more of a demand for
housing then for commercial use and reminded everyone that all
residential would still be under a Special Use Permit approval process that
involves an environmental review as well as meeting the goals and
objectives of the Special Permit.
Mayor Pugh asked if the Board would have that level of discretion during
the Special Permit Application review, even though we authorized things
to be all multi-family, but we felt it was heading in the wrong direction.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that a Special Permit use, which is
what this would be, is considered a permitted use provided that the
criteria in the Code are satisfied, some of the things that the Board would
need to determine during that review process are things like community
character and infrastructure, and if the Board felt at that time that we’ve
had too much all residential we can start to take another look. Village
Attorney Whitehead stated that the commercial demand has been
extremely limited in this area and is why we are considering this to
encourage redevelopment in this area. Village Attorney Whitehead
emphasized that mixed-use is still permitted and we might still get both.
Mayor
Pugh
stated
that
when
we
are
talking
about
community/neighborhood character, the loss of supportive retail such as a
laundry or a local corner store could negatively impact tenants in multifamily buildings.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that these types of businesses will be
market driven and building more residential developments increases the
demand and could create more commercial uses in those areas.
Trustee Gallelli stated that it is important that there are still options and
reminded everyone that the Board gets to examine every development
that is proposed and make decisions based on the circumstances
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 5

surrounding it and if we find that development is heavily going in one
direction, we can take that as an opportunity to take a second look.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that this is exactly what the Board is
doing now, taking a second look, and responding to what has happened
over the last ten years.
Trustee Simon asked if other communities in our Region with existing
mixed-use neighborhoods are putting a prohibition on new multi-family
housing unless it has a commercial/retail component.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the trend is to allow all residential
because the commercial space is not always viable.
Trustee Horowitz stated that the Planning Board spent a long time talking
about this and their letter explains their position that they want to keep
the area in the “red space” (see page 8 of the Planning Board’s memo) as
a commercial area and did not want all residential. Trustee Horowitz said
that we have four brand new housing developments in the works which is
big considering that Croton has not built anything for over fifteen years
and by opening the door to only residential development and reducing the
commercial aspect at a time when we are building new residential units
does not seem to make sense.

Village Manager Healy explained that the same process the Board took when
they received the Special Permit application for an all-residential building at 1380
Albany Post Road (in the North End Gateway District) will be the same process
that the Board will do in this area."
Trustee Gallelli explained that a Comprehensive Plan outlines the goals
and objectives in terms of land use for your community and that is why it
is recommended that Comprehensive Plans be revised, our 2003
Comprehensive Plan was updated in 2017 and it gave us a chance to take
a second look at our goals and objectives and as our community evolves,
our Zoning is meant to be an implementation of that Comprehensive Plan.

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 6

Trustee Horowitz asked what were the goals and objectives that the
Comprehensive Plan had.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she does not know the exact working, but it
had to do with achieving more housing.
Trustee Horowitz stated that it is not that we do not have any housing
proposals on the table and believes that the four proposed housing
developments will more than provide the units that Croton is missing.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Housing Needs Assessment indicated that we
have two-hundred households that are spending more than half of their
income on rent, and those four proposals will not cover those two
hundred households and does not believe what is currently being
proposed is adequate.
Trustee Rosales stated that we should have minimal control over the
housing market, there are only certain tools and levers to pull to
adequately create the space, but the issue of income is a whole other
discussion.
Trustee Horowitz stated that people cannot afford the rent they are
paying now so why would building more residential necessarily mean that
they could, even though a percentage of those units are affordable.
Mayor Pugh stated that a certain percentage of almost all new multifamily housing will be affordable and based on the four projects we have
in the pipeline, we are going to make significant strides in addressing the
affordable housing crises, but we are not going to be half in to covering
that group of people who are very acutely affected.
Trustee Simon stated that we have been working on this for about a year,
with the presumption that we are doing this re-zoning effort for the
purpose of bringing about greater housing opportunities and Mr. Decker
and Nance Shatzkin, the Chairperson of the Croton Housing Network,
believe we are going in the right direction. Trustee Simon stated that he
does not believe that we should have an absolute prohibition on a housing
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 7

development if it does not have a retail or commercial component, the
Board has a lot of power and authority when it comes to these projects,
as well as the Planning Board and he is not afraid of listening to the
market and does not want to see us tying our hands on a project which
could be beneficial to the community.
Trustee Rosales asked how we balance this with the parking concerns
expressed by our current businesses because we will have more people
and more cars and are we looking to solve the housing problem of
Westchester County or for Croton.
Trustee Gallelli stated that any new housing development or commercial
development in the Gateway Zone requires on-site parking.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that any of the complaints we are
hearing from businesses about parking is because those businesses are in
older buildings that were not required to have on-site parking and it is
their employees that are having issues, any new buildings will be required
to provide on-site/off-street parking.
Trustee Horowitz stated that there is still a problem with parking in the
South Riverside area and while we have made certain suggestions, we
hope that they will be carried through.
Mayor Pugh stated that commercial uses require more parking, more
people coming and going for businesses to stay in business, the parking
issue is going to remain with us for years to come and we will have to fine
tune it indefinitely.
Trustee Horowitz stated that the Planning Board suggested keeping it as a
commercial area and she agrees.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the Planning Board raised good points, but she
believes that our discussion this evening lends itself against that kind of
elimination of an opportunity in that District and the fact that it is by
Special Permit, it gives us a great deal of flexibility in every situation.
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 8

Mayor Pugh stated that if you look at this area there is a vacant
commercial building and a partially vacant commercial space, so the
question is, on what basis do we have to not allow a property owner to
develop their property as a multi-family development and what separates
the area south of Benedict from the area north of Benedict and why would
it make sense to require a commercial component and then in another
allow just multi-family.
Village Manager Healy said that it looks like the Planning Board is
requiring that parcel number 30 (in the red boundary) on the corner of
Benedict and South Riverside have a commercial component but next
door to that parcel, parcels 28 and 29 which is a vacant lot, they could do
anything since they are not included in that red boundary.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the real question is the viability of
commercial.
Trustee Rosales stated that he would just like to resolve the congestion
issue as we bring in new development for both businesses and housing
before we move forward
Trustee Gallelli stated that this is something we would review when we
have an application before us.
Trustee Simon emphasized that we are not talking about the possibility of
any housing replacing active, functioning retail or commercial, but rather
if there was to be an opportunity it would be on a vacant or unused
property, and we would determine if that proposal was in the character of
the neighborhood and the issue of making parking better for business
employees and customers never stops. Trustee Simon thanked the
Planning Board for raising the issue of neighborhood character as well as
underscoring our responsibility should we go forward.
Mayor Pugh stated that we all share the same objectives, and he does not
want to see it turn into an all-residential area because businesses are
critical to the support of residential properties but based on what our
Attorney and Consultant has advised, we can address those concerns
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 9

through the Special Permit process without needing to micro-manage the
exact mix in our Code.
Village Manager Healy also added that we are not finished with this
process, the Board will have to go through the SEQRA review, the LWRP
Consistency Review as well as a Determination of Significance before
adopting the Law.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Rosales. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY E-MAIL: None
5. CORRESPONDENCE:
a. Letter from NYS Senator Peter Harckham dated September 28, 2022,
regarding the allocation of a $100,000 CREST (Community Resiliency,
Economic Sustainability, and Technology) Grant to the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202209/c8517cbef5ea698bb0a171eddba9846633bc534c.pdf
b. Referral from the Town of Ossining regarding the creation of a special
permit use for artist communities
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202209/28ab189c19f56534eb8396474f28230a934ca128.pdf
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none
7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #138 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE the following was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
with a - vote.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 10

WHEREAS Historic Hudson Valley (HHV) is a non-profit organization which owns and
maintains the historic Van Cortlandt Manor property, located on South Riverside
Avenue, and
WHEREAS the Village and HHV entered into a Memorandum of Understanding
(“MOU”) dated November 2009 in connection with a proposed project to improve
South Riverside Avenue and the access to Van Cortlandt Manor, a National Historic
Landmark site in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York (PIN 8760.11) and
have been awarded SAFETEA-LU funds by the New York State Department of
Transportation (“NYSDOT”), and
WHEREAS the Village agreed to serve as Sponsoring Agency and HHV, the owner
and operator of Van Cortlandt Manor, had agreed to serve as Administering Agency
under the MOU, and
WHEREA, by Resolution adopted on March 21, 2011, the Board of Trustees of the
Village approved the Project, and
WHEREAS by Resolution adopted on July 6, 2022, the Village Manager was
authorized to execute the original Memorandum of Understanding with the NYSDOT
for the Van Cortlandt Manor Entrance Improvement Project for the period ending
September 30, 2023, and
WHEREAS Historic Hudson Valley is now seeking to revise certain provisions of the
MOU,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to execute the revised Memorandum of Understanding with Historic Hudson Valley
in connection with the proposed project to improve South Riverside Avenue and the
access to Van Cortlandt Manor.
DISCUSSION
Village Manager Healy advised that none of the changes were substantial, the
Village is just a pass-through for the funding and is at no cost to the Village.
Resolution #139 of 2022
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 11

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Chapter 197-15 of the Village Code, entitled “Snow and Ice on
Sidewalks”, provides for the property owner or lessee to keep the adjoining
sidewalk free from snow and ice, subject to certain parameters specified in the law,
and
WHEREAS Chapter 197-15, subsection D, provides for the Village to cause the snow
and ice to be removed from the sidewalk if not done by the homeowner within the
prescribed 12-hour period, and
WHEREAS Chapter 197-15, subsection E, provides for the Village to charge the
property owner for the cost of the removal of the snow and ice, and
WHEREAS last year, the Village contracted with La Teja Contractors & Landscaping,
Inc. to perform this work, and
WHEREAS La Teja has agreed to hold their rates from last year for this work at
$65/hour for snow shoveling, $85/hour for snow blowing, $125/hour for using a
skid steer, and $30/bag for use of calcium chloride,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with La Teja Contractors & Landscaping, Inc. for snow removal
services for the 2022-2023 winter season.
Resolution #140 of 2022 - RESOLUITON TABLED
Resolution #141 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson broadcasts and records a variety of
public meetings live over local Cable TV and streamed over the Interne, and
11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 12

WHEREAS the current Audio-Visual equipment for the broadcast system only
supports SD quality and the equipment is old and unreliable, and
WHEREAS the Village is seeking to upgrade the audio, visual and sound system in
the Georgianna Grant Public Meeting Room, and
WHEREAS the Village has received a quote from One Vision Solutions of Irving,
Texas for a total of $35,996, and
WHEREAS $30,000 in funding for this project is available in capital project account
H1620.2000.20376, and
WHEREAS the remaining $5,996 in funding for this capital project was not included in
the 2022-2023 General Fund budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $5,996 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account: H1620.2000.20376 - $5,996
Resolution #142 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is committed to pursuing waste
reduction and recycling, and
WHEREA, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation has
awarded a grant to the Village in the amount of $14,332 for the establishment of a
six-month pilot residential food scrap management program organized by the
Sustainability Committee, and
WHEREAS Westchester County has established the Residential Food Scrap
Transportation and Disposal Program to maximize the benefits of food scrap
recycling by making the collection and processing of residential food scraps
economically feasible for municipalities, participation in which is voluntary, and
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 13

WHEREAS Westchester County requires the execution of an Intermunicipal
Agreement to participate in the Residential Food Scrap Transportation and Disposal
Program,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Intermunicipal Agreement between
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and Westchester County in substantially the same
form as attached hereto, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Manager is herein authorized to
undertake all administrative acts required pursuant to the terms of the Agreement.
For more information about the program, you can log onto the following:

https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sustainabilitycommittee/news/croton%E2%80%99s-food-scrap-recyclingprogram-starts-january-2023

Resolution #143 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a - vote.
WHEREAS providing clean drinking water and protecting our local rivers, bays,
lakes, streams, and waterfronts from pollution is paramount to quality of life in New
York State and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS modernizing water infrastructure will safeguard clean water, reduce
flooding, reduce lead exposure and other public health threats, and create job, and
WHEREAS Westchester County is vulnerable to extreme weather including deadly
heat from rising temperatures and flooding from severe storms that put people,
properties, and public assets across the County at risk, and
WHEREAS upgrading transportation and stormwater infrastructure, restoring
natural resources, growing urban forests, building green roofs, and upgrading
cooling centers will reduce the impact of extreme weather, saving lives and money,
and
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 14

WHEREAS the COVID-19 pandemic demonstrated the importance of outdoor
recreation and access to fresh, local food, as people flocked to local parks and
sought out healthy foods for their families, and
WHEREAS upgrades to facilities at state and local parks and preserves and the
creation of new outdoor recreational areas will benefit our region by protecting
wildlife habitat, providing more people access to nature, and creating jobs in the
outdoor recreation economy, and
WHEREAS the Clean Water, Clean Air, Green Jobs Environmental Bond Act of 2022
would authorize the four billion and two hundred million dollars of bonds to finance
critical environmental restoration, clean water, and infrastructure projects across
New York State, and
WHEREAS the funds would be targeted towards protecting clean water, reducing
flood risk, restoring natural resources, protecting open space and farmland, and
reducing the pollution that causes climate change, and
WHEREAS the Clean Water, Clean Air, Green Jobs Environmental Bond Act of 2022
was passed by the New York State Legislature as part of the 2022-23 New York
State Budget and will appear on the November 8, 2022, New York State General
Election Ballot for voter approval, and
WHEREAS the Clean Water, Clean Air, Green Jobs Environmental Bond Act of 2022
includes strong labor provisions and will support more than 84,000 familysustaining jobs for New Yorkers, and
WHEREAS the Clean Water, Clean Air, Green Jobs Environmental Bond Act of 2022
would enable New York State and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to address
pollution and public health threats in disadvantaged communities by directing at
least 35% with a goal of 40% of the measure’s funding to address hazardous
conditions in such communities,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson supports passage of the Clean Water, Clean Air, Green Jobs
Environmental Bond Act of 2022.
Resolution #144 of 2022

14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 15

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE ROSALES, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS pursuant to § 467 of the Real Property Tax Law, the Village of Crotonon-Hudson maintains a senior tax exemption at the maximum level of 50% for
those senior citizens earning $29,000/year or less, and
WHEREAS on August 8, 2022, New York State adopted legislation increasing the
income eligibility level for the senior property tax exemption from $29,000 to
$50,000, and
WHEREAS the option to increase the income eligibility level for the senior property
tax exemption must be exercised through adoption of a local law, ordinance, or
resolution after public hearing, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 14 of 2022 has been drafted to reflect such
language,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing for October 17, 2022, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna
Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider
increasing the income eligibility level for the senior property tax exemption.
Resolution #145 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE ROSALES, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has received complaints regarding the property located at 16
Franklin Avenue, designated on the tax maps as Section 79.13, Block 004, Lot 024,
and
WHEREAS the complaints are generated by the condition of the property area, and

15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 16

WHEREAS the Village’s Code Enforcement Officer has issued an Order to Remedy
Violations – Ten Day Notice, dated September 26, 2022, which was hand-delivered,
and
WHEREAS Section 179-2 of the Village Code requires all property to be maintained
and, upon failure of the property owner to maintain said property, provides for
Village cleanup, after proper notice to the property owner, with the cost of the
cleanup being assessed against the property,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees finds that
there are ongoing violations of the Village Law and State Codes as indicated above
and that these violations must be abated to protect the health, safety, and welfare
of the Village residents, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Code
Enforcement Officer to take any action he deems necessary if the Order to Remedy
is not satisfied by October 6, 2022, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the total costs of removing all weeds, brush,
refuse, rubbish, and other materials will be added to the Village tax bill for 16
Franklin Avenue.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Thomas Chadeayne, 13 Park Trail, Croton on Hudson, stated that his
property has been suffering from flooding for the past eight years, and
brought this to the attention of the Village back in 2015, he spent over
$46,000 in 2017 for drainage to take on the water from Mount Airy and
Mountain Trail, his home flooded again in August 2020. Mr. Chadeayne
stated that his driveway was in such disrepair from the run-off that it was
difficult to maneuver his son’s wheelchair, and now he has been told that
the project that was supposed to be done on Mount Airy is being
postponed until next year which is unacceptable.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, shared his feelings and
concerns on State and local politics, to view Mr. Riely’s comments, you
may log onto following:
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 17

https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/801
Signe Bergstrom, 228 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
she believes that the Board is in receipt of a proposed update to the
Village Code regarding Communication Towers, it is her understanding
that these updates will ensure that the Board would have maximum
decision-making authority rather than allowing decisions to be defined by
the FCC, and asked that the Board take this under consideration.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on September 19, 2022, was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Rosales and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS:
Trustee Rosales thanked Chief of Police John Nikitopoulos for accompanying
him as they did a walk-through reviewing the area for Octoberfest/Fallfest.
Trustee Simon advised that the Croton Caring Committee participated in a
program with an organization called “Meals on Main” out of Portchester and
this past Saturday their food truck was parked in the Asbury Church parking
lot and gave out 3,090 pounds of food within a two-hour period, the Croton
Rotary Club held their annual car show, Lindsay Audin received the coveted
“Levine Award” from the New York Planning Federation recognizing his
community service as the Chair of the Sustainability Committee for many
years, attended a Fire Council meeting and participated in the Fire Fair, the
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee met and received a briefing from
Superintendent Balbi on a full range of projects that DPW is working on as
well as updating them on our Safe Streets and Roads Grant.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the Fire Fair was well attended and was a great
program for our community and looks forward to the annual window painting
and goblin walk.
Trustee Horowitz advised that on October 11th the Diversity and Inclusion
Committee will hold a discussion surrounding Hispanic Heritage month, more
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
October 3, 2022
Page 18

information
can
be
found
by
logging
onto
the
following:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/diversity-and-inclusioncommittee/events/64281, New York State Assemblywoman Sandy Galef will
be hosting a virtual Town Hall on October 12th entitled “Heat Pumps l01”,
more information can be found by logging onto the following:
https://nyassembly.gov/mem/Sandy-Galef/story/103712, for information on
voting you may log onto the following: https://www.elections.ny.gov/
Mayor Pugh made the following appointments:
Terrence McGarty
Riley Moeller
Steve Krisky
Roger Miller

Conservation Advisory
Council
Bicycle Pedestrian Committee
Bicycle Pedestrian Committee
Assessor

Term Expires December
2023
Term Expires December
2022

Village Manager Healy thanked Cathy Quinn for organizing the annual
Halloween dog parade, congratulated Lindsay Audin on being recognized by
the New York Planning Federation and announced that Janet Meyer was
elected to the Westchester County Senior Citizens Hall of Fame.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:08pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

18

