PRESENT:

Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
October 11, 2022, 8:00 p.m.
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Sherry Horowitz, Village Board Trustee
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of October 11 th, 2022 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) The Matra Group, LLC – 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Amended Site Plan
Application &
b) The Matra Group, LLC – 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Consolidated
Subdivision Application

The Public Hearing remains open. Kory Salomone, Anthony Matra, Lou Demasi, and Ralph Alfonzetti
were again present in support of the application. Landscape Architect John Imbiano was unable to
attend, but sent an updated landscape plan that included modifications made in response to comments
from the Planning Board.
Ralph Alfonzetti reported speaking with Dan O’Connor and updating the plans based on feedback from
Croton Fire Department Chief John Munson. Updates include the addition of a fire hydrant on the north
side of the property, as well as a fire truck turning plan. The fire truck turning plan means the elimination
of one parking space. Rob Luntz asked and Ralph Alfonzetti confirmed that with the loss of the space,
the applicant still meets the zoning requirements.
Rob Luntz asked if the new drainage feature tied in to the street storm drain. Ralph Alfonzetti reports that
water is captured and treated on the property by an on-site infiltration system located behind the property
with an overflow that goes to an existing drainage channel out the back of the property and underneath
Route 9.
Lou Demasi addressed comments from Village Engineer Dan O’Connor and the Fire Chief John Munson.
The applicant added egress stairs from the fitness center. The plans were amended to show the
basement exit doors swing out, as per code. Lou Demasi stated that yes, there would be an elevator in
the building. Regarding placement of the affordable units, there will be one affordable unit on each of the
three floors, probably rear facing. The affordable units will be the same size as the other units.
Studies were done regarding the signage in front of the building. Lou Demasi showed some possible
examples, and said that they will have an address display with the numbers on top and a creative name
for the building.

1

Steve Krisky asked about the school bus. Ralph Alfonzetti stated that a sidewalk could be added for a
school bus stop. The school bus will not come on private property. It is understood that children will not
be expected to cross Albany Post Road for the school bus. Ralph Alfonzetti provided a spec sheet for the
lighting plan. Dan O’Connor does not foresee an issue with glare from the lights. The dog run does not
show lights, but it will only be open during daylight hours. Electric vehicle charging stations are now
shown on the plans near the fire hydrant.
Rob Luntz asked for follow up from DOT. Ralph Alfonzetti received an email from DOT and they do not
think that it is a good idea to have a crosswalk mid-block.
Dan O’Connor went to the property to look at four trees. Three of the four trees were in poor condition but
Dan O’Connor believed that one of the four trees could be saved. Eva Thaddeus asks if they will be
using existing soil and Ralph Alfonzetti confirms that they are.
Kory Salomone says that the applicant will provide written responses to all of the Fire Department’s
comments and concerns.
Rob Luntz invited comments from the public, and there were none. Steve Krisky made a motion to close
the Public Hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0. A resolution will be drafted.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from September 27th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of September 27 th, 2022, as
amended, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 3 -0. Both John Ghegan and
Rob Luntz abstained as they were absent from the September 27 th meeting.
4. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
Village Board did not vote on local laws 11 and 12 but the current feeling is that that they will not go with
the total prohibition on buildings without commercial space in an area of South Riverside, as suggested in
the Planning Board’s recommendation. Ann Gallelli advised that the issue cannot be discussed as it is
not on the agenda and there is a quorum of Village Board Members present at this Planning Board
meeting. The Village Manager will draft a memo and the Village Board will vote at a future Board of
Trustees meeting. Steve Krisky felt that the Planning Board should have had an opportunity to respond to
the Village Board or had the opportunity to enter into a discussion with the Board of Trustees if they were
rejecting the Planning Board’s recommendation.
Steve Krisky asked for follow up regarding the design center located at 1360 Albany Post Road. The
design center is in violation of the site plan. A stop work order has been issued by the DOT as the owner
will have to remove everything from the right of way. Additionally, all signs and displays will have to be
taken down. Dan O’Connor will speak to Pedro Silva, of 1360 Albany Post Road Corp. regarding
deadlines to remedy the violations, with the possibility of an appearance ticket to justice court. The DOT
is involved as the right of way is New York State property.
The contractor is repairing the east side of river walk trail behind Half Moon Bay and should be done by
this Friday, weather permitting. The entire trail is closed at the moment.
A question was asked about a sidewalk to Shoprite on South Riverside Avenue on the Baked by Susan
side. Dan O’Connor will reach out to DPW and see where it is in the schedule. DPW are currently
prioritizing the homeowner sidewalk program in the 60/40 plan.

2

A developer purchased land on Harrison Street and can build two single family detached houses. The
same developer purchased a small lot on Sunset Trail that the former owner could not build on. This
small lot provides access to Harrison Street. The developer will come in for standard subdivision
approval, there will be a public hearing. It is unclear what will be done with the small lot, a neighbor could
potentially buy it.
Construction on the two new homes on Piney Point Avenue is proceeding. Construction on the new build
on Nordica Drive is not proceeding. The Planning Board cannot tie the two projects together on advice of
counsel.
5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, Rob Luntz made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 9:18 p.m., seconded
by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

3

