MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Nov. 6, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Brian Pugh
Dan Columbini
Len Simon
Joel Gingold
Jon Katz
Bernie Yozwiak
Ashley Clemente David Goldman

Absent:
Niall Kelleher (NYC marathon)

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): none
Announcements: We thank the Village for fixing our zoom access and this zoom. On
10/17, Mayor Pugh formally appointed David and Ashley to our committee.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC-sponsored projects
Washington firehouse solar rooftop: on 9/13, the Village got the 25% initial payment
($22,500) from NYSERDA for this project. On 10/18, CEG applied for the building
permit. Once in hand, CEG will work out the schedule with Fire Dept. (FD) personnel.
HP controls proposal: Carey & Walsh (C&W) stated (10/24) that a building permit is
not needed for the job but delivery of some materials needed for the project has been
delayed. They are holding off on scheduling, pending clarification on a delivery date.
Jon pointed out that, once the hybrid HP / oil boiler control system is in place, it would
provide a good example of such systems, including for homeowners that wish to
integrate new HPs with their existing fuel-based heating systems.
- Other Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: On 10/21, SolSystems’ contractor, Core Development Group,
started staging its construction work (e.g., blocking off parts of the lot to install fencing,
delivering materials, etc.). Groundbreaking is scheduled for 11/14. See the end of
these minutes for Sol’s phasing plan. DPW is coordinating this work. Holes for >200
columns will be drilled to hold the canopy footings. Work will start at the south end of
the lot. Commuters are being warned regarding parking disruptions for 6+ months
Re: CS 2.0 subscribers. Ecogy’s next project (1 MW at Arcadia Farm) starts up this
Feb. Subscribers should start seeing their solar discounts on electric bills thereafter.
Croton Landing Park canopies: Jon expressed concerns regarding Ecogy’s revised
design (i.e., two canopies over portions of the boat launch area). He presented photos
and findings of the site regarding visual impacts and difficulties with turnarounds for
vehicles pulling boat trailers. Eliminating the section near the river could avoid some of
those issues, but others (e.g., restricting river view from the walkway) remained. A
single canopy near the walkway would also output only ~80 kW, making the project
1

too small to finance through community solar. After a lengthy discussion, the
committee chose to drop this project.
The only remaining undeveloped solar sites owned by the Village are strips of parking
areas next to the Muni Bldg and the DPW building. They are too small to finance via
community solar. Once we have clarity on IRA funding (see “funding” below) we can
review viability via a direct grant. All other Village-owned sites (including rooftops,
parking lots, and parks) have either been developed/installed, or found unsuitable.
Other possible sites are privately owned, e.g., ShopRite, Finkelstein Tire. At the
schools, solar panels have already been (or are being) installed on their rooftops.
Once completed (by the end of 2022), a total of 381.5 kW will be installed:
- 247.5 kW at Carrie Tompkins (CET)
- 101.6 kW at the high school
- 32.4 kW at Pierre Van Cortlandt (PVC).
- EV/EVSE
Another of the 3 dual-port ChargePoint chargers installed in May 2019 had a relay
head failure (the main part of the unit). A Village PO was issued for $1,790 to replace
it. DPW will install it. Concerns were expressed regarding high maintenance costs.
We await word from DEC on our ~$150K application for a grant to cover train station
chargers, their installation, electrical infrastructure work, and 2 years of free charging.
Thank you to Ashley for completing a tedious task compiling an email list of
participants in the SmartCharge program. Once the train station system is operational
(late 2023/early 2024), the list will be used to publicize the free charging.
On 10/17, the charger/trenching layout (diagram reviewed during October’s meeting)
at the train station was sent to SolSystems for review and inclusion in its construction
work. Thanks to Bernie and Abhi (his intern) for producing the design’s line diagram
(see last page of minutes) and checking that it meets all NEC codes.
Regarding the school’s EV bus and charger, Joe Bernardi (CHUFSD Trans. Spvsr.)
stated (10/19) that “We are happy to advise you that our chargers are up and running
and fully operational. Our Electric Bus ribbon cutting will be Tuesday 10/25”. For those
wishing to visit the site, they may reach Joe at transportation@chufsd.org.
- Funding Sources/Issues
Len reviewed his findings on the federal Inflation Reduction Act (IRA). Regarding
potential funding, he translated “IRA-speak” into terms used in NY State programs. He
found that IRA Disadvantaged Community (DAC) boundaries differ from State DEC
DACs in ways that limits our IRA funding options. He provided an excellent review of
the IRA from the standpoint of local govts., produced by the Climate Mayors group.
Lindsay agreed to sift through it for possible financial opportunities.
2

On 10/19, regarding compilation (at our request) of IRA incentives for municipalities,
Jenna Cain of the Sunrise Movement (SM) stated that “a bunch” of SM personnel that
had committed to doing the task had instead “dropped out”. She agreed to complete
the task alone by late November. See “recruitment” below for other efforts to work with
local youth climate action groups.
On 11/3, NYSERDA announced: “…to prevent over-incentivizing projects with public
funding, NYSERDA has decided to temporarily suspend the Community Adder in the
Con Edison territory until federal guidance on the [IRA’s] ITC adders is published.
NYSERDA intends to re-launch an adjusted Community Adder once the ITC guidance
is available…” When clarity on the matter is available (perhaps by late January), we
will review our options re: the parking lot strips discussed above.
- Food Scrap Recycling Program
With help from CAC, C100, MoF, C4C, and Village staff, 70 requests to participate
were received by 10/24; 40 (the goal) were accepted. Others were notified that they
were not selected, but would be informed if the program is later expanded.
Frank Balbi (DPW) on 11/3 reported that most of the needed materials are in hand or
awaiting delivery. The service shed at the dog park is being moved to Lot A, so a new
shed was not needed. Other items (e.g., cleaning supplies) are readily available.
We are prepping for the Dec. 4 kick-off event. To avoid overcrowding and parking
issues, the distributions will be done in two time slots: noon to 1, and 1 to 2.
Committee members will next meet on that Sunday at 11:00 AM in the Muni Bldg
Community Room to set up the room for distributing the materials.
Scrap drop-offs will run from Saturday, Jan. 7 through June 24, 2023 at the end of
Pkg. Lot A near the train station. The first County scrap pickup will be Monday, Jan. 9.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
As previously discussed, all but one member of the youth-based Sunrise Movement
that had agreed to perform a review of the IRA had dropped out of that effort before
completing it. To assess viability of working with other youth-oriented groups, Lindsay
researched them for local contacts. The nearest chapter of Greta Thunberg’s Fridays
for Future is in the Bronx. Another group (Extinction Rebellion) had a Westchester
chapter (Hastings?), but its contact info now goes instead to the group’s NYC chapter.
Last Generation only has chapters in Florida. Most are focused on non-violent direct
action. At this time, no value was seen in further efforts to engage with them.
On 10/12, Adlin Hadad (our PR associate) agreed to produce a 2022 annual report of
our activities to the VB. We had suspended that activity (needed to maintain our CSC
status) during COVID. The report will be compiled during January.
- Other Reports
On 10/12, Dan attended a Sandy Galef-sponsored zoom on HPs. Regarding pending
new incentives, he stated that we need to wait for new Con Ed rebate rules (expected
3

by January). He reviewed a variety of options for homeowners as detailed in online
presentations by Rewiring America, a NGO promoting widespread electrification
(www.rewiringamerica.org). Depending on income, for example, a $1,750 IRA
incentive for a HP water heater (HPWH) will be available as a “buy down” through a
plumbing contractor. A 30% tax credit (up to $2,000) may also be accessed. Together,
they may make HPWHs financially desirable to replace existing electric water heaters.
- New Business / Other Issues
Jon reviewed his findings on rooftop boiler/furnace exhausts at the Metro North
Railroad (MNR) maintenance buildings. Lindsay had asked him to do so pursuant to
an IRA-based option for carbon capture incentives. In IRA DACs, facilities able to
capture at least 1,000 metric tons (MT) per year would qualify for $85/MT. MNR burns
~250,000 gal/yr of heating oil, producing over 2,500 MT/yr.
A commercial carbon capture system (offered by CarbonQuest Inc., carbonquest.com)
captures 50% of carbon from an exhaust stream. But review of IRA DAC boundaries
found that the MNR site is not within one. Non-DAC sites would need to capture at
least 12,500 MT/yr to qualify for the incentive. Such facilities may be large industrials
or campuses burning over ~1.2 million gal/yr of oil (e.g., a university or medical center
with a central plant heating ~2 million SF of buildings).
Members are reminded that they must take the annual State-required online training in
sex harassment and workplace violence unless having taken it during October. Proof
of completion should be sent to pdisanto@crotononhudson-ny.gov as PDFs.

Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, Dec. 4, at 11:00 AM in the Muni Bldg
basement Community Room to distribute food scrap program materials. To avoid
conflicts with holidays, the following meeting is suggested for Sunday, Jan. 22, 2023
via zoom, as usual, at 10:30 AM.

4

5

6

