Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
October 25th, 2022, 8:00 p.m.

APPROVED as amended 11/29/22

PRESENT: Robert Luntz, Chairman
         John Ghegan
         Geoffrey Haynes
         Steven Krisky
         Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
              Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
              Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of October 25th, 2022 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2. OLD BUSINESS
a) The Matra Group, LLC – 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Amended Site Plan Application &
b) The Matra Group, LLC – 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Consolidated Subdivision Application

Attorney Kory Salomone and Owner, Anthony Matra were present in support of these applications. Prior to this meeting, copies of both resolutions were sent to the applicant and Planning Board members for review. Kory Salomone had a question about condition #10 on the resolution for the Amended Site Plan which stated "That, the applicant provide some reasonable assistance in clearing portions of the walking trail on the east side of Albany Post Road." The applicant asked for clarification on this point, and after some short discussion, it was determined that the applicant will do the first large clean-up of this trail and then an agreement for ongoing maintenance will be reached. Geoff Haynes reported that the Croton Trails Committee may consider adding this trail to their jurisdiction. The Scenic Ridge Home Owner's Association is responsible for maintaining this area, and should assume some responsibility after the initial clean-up.

Rob Luntz noted for the record that there was an adequate response to the comments and concerns raised by Fire Chief Munson. A copy of the response is attached to these minutes. The Planning Board did not suggest additional changes to the resolutions.

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Amended Site Plan Application, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 5-0.

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Consolidated Subdivision Application, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 5-0.

3. NEW BUSINESS

a) Irrevocable Trust of Irene Hildinger – 45 Sunset Drive (79.09-3-6) Application for Approval of Accessory Apartment

Steve Krisky advised the group that he knows the applicant and is a neighbor, but felt confident that he could look at the application objectively.

Nora Hildinger, daughter of Irene Hildinger, was present in support of the application. Ms. Hildinger reported that her mother, Irene Hildinger, has lived at 45 Sunset Drive for the past 60 years and taught at Irvington high school for 30 years before retiring. Ms. Hildinger reports that her mother is on a fixed income and needs a home health aide. Having an accessory apartment will help her stay in her home that she loves.

Ms. Hildinger states that the basement at 45 Sunset Drive meets the Village requirements for an accessory apartment in that it is the right size, it has three existing parking spaces and will not change the look of the property. Rob Luntz confirms stated that he looked at the plans and there is a separate entrance, the basement meets the size requirements and it appears to be an ideal location.

Eva Thaddeus asked if the basement is finished and Nora Hildinger reported that it has been finished for many years and they know that they must come in to get a building permit. Rob Luntz confirmed that the applicant was aware of the conditions of the approval which are:

1. That, the Planning Board approval for an accessory apartment shall become null and void within 90 days of any of the following events: a) change of property ownership; b) death of the property owner(s); or c) change in residence of the owner. The Planning Board may grant a ninety-day extension past the expiration for good cause, including that an application has been filed to continue an accessory apartment use.
2. Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory apartment use, then the owner shall apply to the Planning Board for renewal of the approval.
3. That, the current owner is to make any subsequent buyer aware of the requirement of approval for the renewal of an existing accessory apartment.
4. That, the applicant applies for a building permit for the accessory apartment.

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Accessory Apartment Application, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0.

b) Rillosi, Antonio – 123 North Riverside Avenue (67.20-4-10.01) – Amended Minor Site Plan Application

Antonio Rillosi and Ed Vergano were present in support of this application. Antonio Rillosi is the potential buyer for this property. If granted approval, he would like to build a glass house. Mr. Rillosi stated that much of the house is prefabricated, and only a small portion, primarily the basement, would be built on site. The house that he is proposing is steel and glass. It is to be a very "green" house. The roof would be 10" thick with high-end materials that could protect from extreme temperatures. The glass that will be used would be triple laminated, the size of the glass panels would be 9 feet by 20 feet and 9 feet by 16 feet. There would be no joints in the windows.

Ed Vergano, Engineer prepared plans for a similar home to be built on this same property in 2021. The Zoning Board granted a 2-foot variance for the frontage (has 18 ft instead of the required 20 ft) in 2021. The current applicant recently applied for and received a rear yard variance for a carport attached to a new (proposed) single family home. Before granting the rear yard variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals members conducted a site visit. Steve Krisky asked if the property had changed hands since the original Zoning Board application, and it was confirmed that, yes, Antonio Rillosi is in contract to buy the property from Andrew Jaeger. Eva Thaddeus asked and Dan O'Connor confirmed that both Zoning Variances run with the land and do not expire.

Dan O'Connor clarified that the original house that was approved on this site was also a glass house and that if someone wanted to build that approved house, they could, if they had a building permit. This current house, that Antonio Rillosi is proposing, is different.

Steve Krisky remembers that during the last Planning Board application, there were concerns regarding access to this site in the event of a fire. Dan O'Connor stated that the Croton Fire Chief reviewed the previous application (2021) and went on a site walk. The resolution for the previous application requires a sprinkler system, fire alarm system and a single nozzle fire hydrant to be provided at the site of this new home. Steve Krisky asked if this new plan should be referred to the fire chief for review, and Dan says that the Croton Fire Department already looked at the site and the same requirements that were conditions of the prior approval will be conditions of this current approval. Steve Krisky recalled that one concern from a neighbor during the prior approval process was that the fire hydrant on Prospect Place would be too far to reach this property. Dan O'Connor pointed out on the monitor the area where the new fire hydrant would be, off the driveway, but close to the house. The exact location of the fire hydrant is to be determined. John Ghegan asked if the fire department could access this property from Old Post Road and it was determined that they could not.

Rob Luntz clarifies that site plan issues on this current application are the same as the ones from the 2021 application. This current proposed house is in more or less the same location that was previously approved. Ed Vergano agrees that there are no significant changes, and that this application is for Amended Minor Site Plan approval. Ed Vergano points out that the plantings are the same, the driveway is essentially in the same location. Geoff Haynes asked Ed Vergano to comment on the footprint of this building compared to the one previously approved and Ed Vergano says that the footprint of this currently proposed home is smaller than the one previously approved. There is a patio area around the house the house which is why they added additional cultec units in front. This house is also much shorter than the original one proposed. Essentially, this house is one floor, a high floor with a mezzanine, according to the applicant, and they are not sure about a basement. Also, because of the steep slope, they need to build a retaining wall south of the house. Ed Vergano states that they reduced the slope of the driveway as they tried to push the house deeper in the ground.

In response to Geoff Haynes' question regarding where the fill will go once the site is excavated, the applicant stated that it will be removed from the site. Eva Thaddeus asked how the large prefabricated pieces would be delivered and the applicant reported that they will be delivered, one by one on a truck and yes, the truck will be able to turn around on the property that is 30 feet wide, and bigger than it appears. The applicant also took this opportunity to respond to the earlier discussion about fire safety and he said that the building materials are steel and glass, not wood, so that would reduce the fire risk. Rob Luntz clarified that the roofing materials were made of fire proof composite material with two layers of aluminum. On the inside of the roof, there is fire proof foam.

Geoff Haynes asks if the applicant had a sense if this building would have more run off and Ed Vergano reported that they took this into consideration and increased the number of cultec units to accommodate the calculated run off. Rob Luntz asked about the landscaping and Ed Vergano reported that it is the same as on the last application. John Ghegan asked about the greenery on either side of the driveway and if trucks can get up and down without disturbing these areas. The applicant replied that they are used to operating in small spaces. They will have a small crane.

Steve Krisky asked approximately how long does the applicant think the project will take as the neighbors will be inconvenienced during construction. The applicant believes that it will be less than one year. The plan would be to have the utilities go in first and not start digging on the driveway until they knew that the utility companies were ready to go. The applicant says that he was told that the greenery on either side of the driveway should remain as it is. The applicant did not have a plan to put up fencing to protect the greenery. Dan O'Connor said that they should make a good faith effort to preserve the greenery on both sides of the asphalt. The applicant said that he will help to replant if there is any damage to the greenery. Rob Luntz confirms that they will need to put in water, sewer and electric. All the utilities will have to be planned out, and the driveway needs to be passable at the end of each day. There will need to be temporary asphalt as they go up the driveway to keep the surface usable and at the end of the project, the driveway will be repaved. These conditions will be clearly spelled out in the resolution.

Geoff Haynes confirms that the applicant does not plan to live in this home, and that it probable that he will sell it once it is built. Eva Thaddeus was not on the Planning Board for the last application and she confirmed that the issues of landscaping and steep slopes and existing vegetation were all addressed. It was stated that the adjustment with the retaining wall will improve the situation. The steep slope that ends in the line of shrubs is existing and will remain untouched. A couple of big trees on the property will remain untouched. The applicant will plant new trees for privacy. Eva Thaddeus asked if there should be concern about erosion or earth coming down the hill to the property below and Rob Luntz said that they will have to have an erosion and sediment control plan in place.

Rob Luntz believes the house has architectural merit is thoughtfully planned out and could be an interesting addition to the Village.

John Ghegan asks about the sun beating down on the glass and will it not get hot. The applicant replies that the glass has a metal coating, light gets in, but not the extreme heat and cold. Rob Luntz confirms that there will not be solar panels on the roof. Regarding geothermal heating and cooling, the applicant says that they will drill to see if they can move ahead with this. The "power plant" listed on the plans is a utility room with electrical panels, water filters, etc.

Although it was not a public hearing, Chairman Luntz opened the meeting to public comments. The first to speak was John McKeon, of 25 Prospect Place. John McKeon had two handouts which were a copy of the original variance issued for this property and a copy of the Town of Cortlandt property card. There was an entry on the property card on that stated "As per Dan O'Connor (4/28/22) lot 6 was merged with 67.20-4-9. John McKeon stated that it is the same applicant as two years ago, Upright Interiors, here again with someone else representing them and the resolution stated that the work should start within one year. Mr. McKeon pointed out that there have been no building permits filed and no construction activity for over a year. The parcel that was granted a variance did not exist until 2022. Mr. McKeon's second objection was that Riverside Avenue is a state road and he does not understand how you can give a variance on a state road, with a 300-foot driveway drained into a 12-inch pipe down its length, including overflow from roof mitigation system down to a state highway piped underground to a state sewer. Mr. McKeon believes that it must be subject to state review. After two years, DOT has not been notified and Mr. McKeon asks if he came and proposed all water from his property be directed in the same way and he would have to dig up the street to do that, would that be okay? Mr. McKeon also stated that the Village previously stated that all snow removal would be by back loader and dump truck. Chairman Luntz said that the snow removal requirements are written into the resolution as conditions. Lastly, Mr. McKeon asked the Planning Board to reconsider approval in context of a more collaborative relationship with the state because the state requires 20 feet for a driveway, but the Village reduced that to 18 feet when it gave a variance, which Mr. McKeon believes has expired.

The next person to speak was Rebecca Backerman-Appleyard of 127 North Riverside Avenue who is very concerned about drainage and construction. Ms. Backerman-Appleyard is concerned about safety as a fire hose would have to go down the sidewalk, across two houses and up a 300-foot driveway, she is also concerned as the trucks would need 24 feet clearance to turn around and she does not think that they will have the space. Ms. Backerman-Appleyard read a letter that she would like to be included in these minutes and that letter is attached.

Christine Corrado of 133 North Riverside Avenue was next to speak. Ms. Corrado's property goes up to directly under the driveway of this proposed new home. For the last twenty years, Ms. Corrado has travelled around the state buying native flowers for her property and has spent thousands of dollars on her garden. Ms. Corrado is concerned about the roots of pine trees that are over 100 years old are going to be under the blacktop of the driveway. There is a dead mulberry tree on the property line between her property and the applicants that apparently the last applicant promised to remove but has not yet done so. Ms. Corrado's lawyer, Mr. McCarthy sent a letter to Andrew Jaeger that has been ignored. Ms. Corrado is now afraid to be in her yard under the tree and it needs to be removed. Ms. Corrado is also hopeful that a construction fence will be put up so her plants are not destroyed. Ms. Corrado is concerned about drainage and brought pictures of a landslide where an 8-foot x 20-foot section of a wall came down on her property in 1999. Ms. Corrado also had a photo of a large 6 foot by 9-foot hole that fills with water when it rains. Lastly, Ms. Corrado said that she should have mentioned sooner, but the Becker Family has an easement to use the driveway and she brought copies of old deeds, one from 1954 when the Schnell Family owned the property. Ms. Corrado's home was built in 1955 and a deed says that anyone who owns her property and the house that is built on it has access to the 18 foot right of way and 30 foot right of way and this applies not only to her but to any of her heirs or anyone who buys her property in the future. Ms. Corrado does not know how tall the retaining wall is supposed to be buy she should have access to the back of her property that she uses for landscaping. A second deed that she brought shows that the Town of Cortlandt sold to the Salkow Family in 1977 and the Salkows sold to Andrew Jaeger to combine with another property that makes up this site that is being discussed.

Myra Oney of 135 North Riverside Avenue was next to speak. Ms. Oney is concerned about access and use of the long, steep driveway. Ms. Oney has concerns about construction vehicles, moving vans, delivery trucks going up and down the driveway. It will be a huge inconvenience and very loud. Ms. Oney is also concerned about the process of snow removal. Ms. Oney has a home business and is concerned about her ability to work online during construction. Ms. Oney is stunned that anyone would want to build on this site.

Rob Luntz stated that with regards to tie-ins to utilities to North Riverside Avenue, it seems like a common occurrence. Dan O'Connor says that the applicant will have go to NYS DOT for approval, and that it is usually done when you apply for a building permit. In this instance, they do not have to cross or go under the highway. The lot is 18 feet wide, and DOT may want to widen the access. Dan O'Connor says that this is typical, applying to DOT after site plan approval.

Rob Luntz also confirms that the variance issued by the Zoning Board runs with the property and does not expire. Rob Luntz states that this plan is lacking an erosion and sediment plan and that the neighbor made a good point about there being no construction fencing. Geoff Haynes expressed concern about the neighbors during construction and would like to see a plan in writing for protecting the plants and greenery. Steve Krisky would like to see a better snow removal plan.

Steve Krisky asked for a clarification of the land parcels. Dan O'Connor stated that many properties are made up of more than one parcel. At one point, there were two separate owners of this lot, and they got together and sold to Andrew Jaeger together. These two original lots did at one point have different tax numbers, but when they merged, the tax numbers were merged. This is frequently done and not unusual. The Town of Cortlandt and Village of Croton coordinated, as we need to be in sync.

To conclude, it was determined that the applicant will be asked to provide an erosion and sediment control plan and a snow removal plan. Dan O'Connor will ask the Fire Department to look over the plans. Eva Thaddeus asks who is responsible if anything happens to the neighbor's trees as there are thriving pine trees that she is worried about. It was determined that there needs to be some language in the resolution to address the issue of existing trees.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES-
a) Draft Minutes from October 11th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Geoffrey Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of October 11th, 2022, as amended, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

5. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS

Steve Krisky raised the issue that the striping in the ShopRite's parking lot is completely faded, it needs some TLC. Dan O'Connor will speak to the ShopRite Manager regarding this issue.

Steve Krisky reported that he was able to ride his bicycle on the east side behind Half Moon Bay. This area has just been repaired and it is now bikeable and walkable.

Steve Krisky had an opportunity to speak with the Village Board regarding accessory dwelling units. The Planning Board will be able to weigh in and give feedback to the Board of Trustees on this issue.

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 10:20 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

Minutes approved 11/29/22, as amended, by a vote of 4-0 with Rob Luntz being absent.

---

ATTACHMENT: Letter from Zarin & Steinmetz LLP

ZARIN & STEINMETZ LLP
Kory Salomone
ksalomone@zarin-steinmetz.com

October 18, 2022

Sent Via Email

Robert Luntz, Chair
Village of Croton-on-Hudson Planning Board
1 Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520

Re: 1380 Albany Post Road, Croton-on-Hudson
Site Plan Application

Hon. Chair and Members of the Planning Board:

In connection with the discussion we held with your Board on October 11, 2022, we are please to provide this response letter to Chief John Munson's email regarding this project.

Comment 1
We would suggest to have a Knox Box installed to enable access to the key areas of the facility.

Response
The Applicant will provide a Knox Box in a location agreed upon with the Chief and/or Fire Department Staff.

Comment 2
Will there by any elevators? If so, how many, what type and where would the equipment rooms be located?

Response
Yes, the building will contain one elevator. The specific elevator type is to be determined. The equipment room for the elevator will be located in the basement.

Comment 3
Where will the Sprinkler FDC be?

Response
We will provide a sprinkler plan for review at a later date.

Comment 4
Can a hydrant be installed in northwest parking area so an Engine can pull in and out of way of a Ladder Truck and not require dropping 5" from main road.

Response
Yes. The plans have been revised to provide a hydrant in the northern portion of the lot.

Comment 5
Will the proposed driveway & parking lot allow for ladder trucks to have room to get in and set up.

Response
Yes. The aisle width meets the Village standard of 24 feet. A truck turning plan has been prepared and demonstrates that the proposed driveway and parking lot allow for ladder trucks to have room to get in and around another truck.

Comment 6
Can we drill on the existing building before demolition.

Response
Yes, provided that the Village indemnifies and insures the property owner.

Comment 7
We would appreciate if you could allow us a walk thru of the building before it is occupied.

Response
Yes. The applicant will coordinate a walk thru of the building with the Fire Department prior to the building being occupied.

Comment 8
The Floor plans indicate no emergency access doors to exit stairs on either ends on all above grade levels. That leaves the Ground floor with a single legal Means of egress (Min. two required), 2nd and 3rd floors with only elevator access (No qualifying emergency egress). Clarify if this is a drafting error.

Response
Thank you for reviewing the interior layout. This was a drafting oversight and the plans have been revised to show the correct means of egress.

Comment 9
Basement Exit doors swing in, as shown on dwg 4.5. They shall swing in the direction of egress and need to be repositioned to meet a. required landing clearances (Can't just swing in as currently shown) b. Area of Rescue Assistance to be marked on plans immediately adjacent to rated stairwells.

Response
The plans have been modified to show the correct door swing. We will show the area of rescue assistance within the final construction plans.

Comment 10
Drawings do not include a Roof Plan, to locate rooftop units, chimneys, vent stacks, etc.

Response
Our final construction plans will show a roof plan.

Comment 11
Required Fire ratings for compartmentalization walls between units and means of egress to be noted on drawings for review and approval.

Response
Our final construction plans will show the ratings and means of egress.

Comment 12
Can we verify that the Storm Water Detention System area in the back – which is the potential area for our apparatus to be stationed during emergencies – are they able to support such a load and can this be verified.

Response
The stormwater system/components and all structures within the driveway/parking area are specified as H-20 loading, and therefore will be able to support the proposed load.

Comment 13
Can the building construction type/truss information be given to us and properly marked on the building.

Response
Yes. Once fully designed, building construction type/truss information will be provided to the Fire Department and properly marked on the building.

Comment 14
It appears that the Parking/Curb layout encroachment at parking space #43 will interfere with Fire Apparatus turning radii to access the back/Main Building Entrance and needs to be trimmed back by 5 ft min.

Response
Plans have been revised to eliminate parking space #43.

If you have any additional questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact me.

Very truly yours,
Kory Salomone
