Minutes of Water Control Commission
Wednesday, May 18, 2022

PRESENT: Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Mark Goldfarb
Mr. Leo Wiegman
Mr. William Pfrang
ABSENT: Mr. Rich Wetherbee
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Dan O’Connor, Village Engineer
Mr. Len Simon, Village Trustee Liaison
Ms. Ann Gallelli, Village Trustee Liaison
1. Call to Order
Chairman Greenbaum called the Water Control Commission meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
2. New Business
a) Historic Hudson Valley—525 South Riverside Avenue --Renewal of Wetlands
Permit #20210001 for site improvements including construction of concrete
sidewalks, maintenance of historic brick walkway and stormwater management,
landscape improvements, utility improvements, and roof replacements, some of
which will occur in the 120 ft. wetland/watercourse buffer.
No representative from Historic Hudson Valley or Bergmann Architects Engineers Planners
were present at the meeting.
Chairman Greenbaum asked Mr. Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer, if there was any pertinent
information that the committee needed to have before making a decision on the application. Mr.
O’Connor stated that the application was before the Water Control Commission for the renewal
of a Wetlands Permit for site improvements at the above-named location. Mr. O’Connor stated
that when the permit was initially issued in May of 2021, it came with a standard 1-year
expiration date and was set to expire on May 25, 2022. Mr. O’Connor shared with the WCC that
the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation authorized a wetlands permit
effective May 17, 2022 with an expiration date of December 31, 2026. Mr. O’Connor requested
that the WCC grant a 3-year permit term allowing Historic Hudson Valley additional time to
complete the project. Mr. O’Connor noted that HHHV would not start the site improvements prior
to the 2022 Blaze and that the work would be scheduled to start in 2023 post winter months
(inclement weather) and if needed, HHHV would pause the work for the 2023 Blaze season.

Mr. O’Connor added that Bergmann Architect and Engineers were supposed to present a
Stormwater Pollution Plan draft but as noted in their letter to the Water Control Commission, a
SWPPP was being finalized and would be effective prior to the start of construction.
Mr. O’Connor stated he will keep a draft of the SWPPP until it is ready, the plan will then be sent
to DEC and then be authorized.
Chairman Greenbaum stated he was remiss to introduce and welcome new member, William
Pfrang to the Water Control Commission. Mr. Pfrang thanked Chairman Greenbaum.
Chairman Greenbaum then asked the Water Control Commission members if they had any
comments or issues with the permit renewal application. All members agreed that they were
satisfied with the information presented and felt inclined to grant a wetlands permit with the
same term and expiration date of 12/31/2026 as authorized by the NYDEC.
Motion: Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to grant the renewal of Wetlands Permit
#20210001 with an expiration date of December 31, 2026 for site improvements including the
construction of concrete sidewalks, maintenance of historic brick walkway and stormwater
management, landscape improvements, utility improvements, and roof replacements, some of
which will occur in the 120 ft. wetland/watercourse buffer. Mr. Goldfarb seconded the motion.
All in favor 4-0 (Mr. Wetherbee, absent). Roll Call: Chairman Greenbaum, yes, Mr. Goldfarb,
yes, Mr. Wiegman, yes, Mr. Pfrang, yes.
3. Approval of Minutes
The Water Control Commission approved the minutes of the WCC meeting of Sept 22, 2021,
by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Wetherbee, absent; Mr. Pfrang, abstained)
4. Adjournment
There being no further business before the Water Control Commission, the meeting was duly
adjourned at 5:37 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by,

Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Water Control Commission

