Minutes of the Planning Board Meeting held on
November 29th, 2022, 8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

ABSENT:

John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky (Acting Chairman)
Eva Thaddeus
Robert Luntz, Chairman

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Acting Chairman Steve Krisky called the Planning Board meeting of November 29th, 2022 to
order at 8:00 p.m.
a) OLD BUSINESS
Rillosi, Antonio – 123 North Riverside Avenue (67.20-4-10.01) – Amended Minor
Site Plan Application & Steep Slope Permit Application
Antonio Rillosi, potential buyer and Ed Vergano, Engineer of Badey & Watson were present in
support of this application. Antonio Rillosi spoke first and says that they did what was requested
of them at the last meeting. The applicant presented a different proposal for the placement of
the utilities, on either side of the driveway in order to keep the retaining wall on the north side.
Ed Vergano reported that they did some testing around the site in order to ascertain elevation of
the ledge rock and found that in most locations, they will hit rock. Ed Vergano said they had
some choices in how best to deal with this and they decided to bring the foundation to the rock
rather than digging into the rock and regarding the utilities, rather than putting the utilities in the
road which would require another three-foot cut, they would place the water line on the outside
of the retaining wall and sewer line on the other side of the driveway, which would not require as
much cutting. Ed Vergano said that with changing the placement of the utilities and pinning the
house foundation to the rock, it would eliminate a lot of cutting. Geoff Haynes asked if moving
the utilities five-six feet would make a difference and Ed Vergano said that yes, it would.
Eva Thaddeus confirmed that the retaining wall was on the property, not the boundary of the
property and that there is room behind the wall on the applicant’s property. It was noted that
one side of the wall will have a water line and the other side will have a sewer line. Telephone,
electric and gas lines will go on either side, and the lines will meet at the bend and come down
the rest of the driveway together. Steve Krisky asked if borings were done in this area to ensure
that this plan was doable, and Ed Vergano confirmed that they were.
Steve Krisky asked about the requested snow removal plan and both the applicant Engineer Ed
Vergano spoke about an area of the parking area where the snow could be piled on the
property. After some significant discussion, the applicant was asked to submit a snow removal
plan in writing.
1

Village Engineer Dan O’Connor spoke about the drainage system and stated that there are two
cultec systems proposed for the property, the larger one in the driveway apron area and the
smaller one where the new driveway will begin. Dan O’Connor explained that a cultec system is
essentially a plastic chamber that is placed under ground, surrounded by gravel, where water is
stored that then slowly infiltrates into the ground. Each cultec system has an overflow. The first
system on this property will collect water from the upper part of the driveway, house roof and
patio. The drainage system goes around the patio with inlets, leaders from the house get tied in
various locations and this water from the house and patio is piped into underground stormwater
storage system along with water that would flow into a catch basin piped back into underground
stormwater system. Water flowing down the driveway flows into another cultec system, flows
down the driveway to another catch basin connected to the NY State storm water system, flows
across the road to an 18” pipe down to a 36” pipe to an area near the Senasqua Road on ramp
then under the highway, to the wetland area near the Metro North East yard to a pipe from that
area to the Hudson River west of the bath house on Croton Landing Park.
Both Village Engineer Dan O’Connor and Assistant Village Engineer Ron Wegner spoke to Ed
Vergano on November 29th, 2022 and expressed concern that that the cultec system is located
right behind the retaining wall on the property. The retaining wall is installed on gravel bedding
with a gravel drainage layer behind the retaining wall and a drainage pipe at the bottom so the
concern is that the gravel drainage layers will connect and water will flow into gravel envelope
and be picked up by the drainage pipe so that water supposed to be held for a period of time
could potentially drain out quickly. Ed Vergano will have to work on this and possibly locate
another smaller system on the right-hand side of the house where there is enough soil so that
the two gravel envelopes do not mesh. Steve Krisky asked if the other cultec system on the
property would have the same problem and Dan O’Connor said no, it would not have the same
problem. Eva Thaddeus asked if the driveway extension will be paved and Dan O’Connor said
that yes, it will be paved with an impervious material which is necessary, given the grade.
John Ghegan asked if the cultec system is above ground and Dan O’Connor reports that one
system is four feet deep to rock and the other is two feet deep to rock. The highest corner of
the retaining wall is 13 feet. Eva Thaddeus asks if the overall amount of soil will be the same
and Ed Vergano says that they do not want to bring in fill, they will try to use what they have on
site.
Geoff Haynes said that it is good to hear that Ed Vergano is working with the Village Engineers
and asks that Ed Vergano come back with something more efficient regarding the drainage.
Geoff Haynes also said that the neighbors are most vulnerable to water during construction
when the cultec system may not yet be in place so he asked about construction fencing and
hay. Dan O’Connor said that since the last meeting, the Planning Board received an erosion
and sediment control plan as well as a Stormwater Report detailing that there will be a standard
construction entrance and a silt fence along the bottom edge of the property that will be put in
prior to construction, inspected during construction and maintained during construction.
2

Steve Krisky reported getting a report from Fire Chief Munson who essentially ok’d the new
application seeing as the footprint is smaller than the previous submission and Chief Munson
confirmed a fire hydrant will be on site. Steve Krisky wrapped up by saying that the applicant
needs to now come back with a snow removal plan in writing and work on a water mitigation
plan.
John Ghegan asked about the water pressure from the fire hydrant and if there is a certain
amount of water pressure required. Dan O’Connor reported that the last resolution required a
single hose hydrant with a two- and one-half inch hose on top, and an optimum hose stream of
50 gallons per minute, the exact location of the hydrant was to be approved by the Fire Chief.
The Village has a lower and upper pressure zone. Because this property is low in the
topography, it is in the lower pressure zone, so the water pressure should be good. Dan
O’Connor says it is a pipe size issue, not a pressure issue. Dan O’Connor will ask Ed Vergano
for some calculations (there is a two-inch line on the plans) and a larger pipe may be needed.
The on-site fire hydrant is an early response hydrant.
John Ghegan asks about getting a fire truck up the road (of the property). Dan O’Connor says
that they can get an ambulance up the road and they may get a pumper up to the top of the
driveway to run a hose. The utility truck can get up. The Fire Chief did not see anything
unusual about the potential response to a fire here. John Ghegan asks about brush and trees
that may go on fire and brush and trees that may be taken down and if these two issues cancel
each other out. Dan O’Connor replied that there were not a lot of wildfires in this area and patio
around the proposed house will be a fire break.
Lastly, John Ghegan asked the applicant how many people could live in the house and the
applicant replied probably four, with a maximum six as there are three bedrooms and four
bathrooms.
Eva Thaddeus wants to make sure that all the comments from the neighbors were addressed
and asked about the timeline of permits. Dan O’Connor said that North Riverside Avenue is a
state highway and that the applicant will have to apply for driveway and utility permits. Dan
O’Connor said that the state will want drainage calculations and may want some improvements
to piping or upgrades. Eva Thaddeus states that there is concern from the neighbors that the
project may start and then be interrupted by the state, so Dan O’Connor suggested that the
applicant reach out to NYS DOT before the next Planning Board Meeting. Steve Krisky
encouraged the applicant to have a preliminary conversation with DOT.
Eva Thaddeus asked if there was a concern about water pressure and Dan O’Connor does not
have concerns. Lastly, Eva Thaddeus asked about concern regarding trees coming down on
the property. Ms. Thaddeus reported that she walked the property that afternoon and had
trouble seeing trees that would be at risk during construction and invited the neighbors to be
more specific about which trees they were worried about. Ms. Thaddeus questioned the choice
of willow trees on the landscape plans and suggested possibly holly, box, or bayberry trees. Ed
3

Vergano said that he would entertain those suggestions. Ms. Thaddeus wondered if there could
be some screening, possible a line of shrubs around the driveway. The applicant stated that he
would put a fence on the property and grant the neighbors with a right of way access through a
gate. Dan O’Connor suggested that the applicant speak with the neighbors to determine the
best spot for the fence.
Steve Krisky opened the meeting to public comments.
Eliezer Becher of 137 N. Riverside Ave. uses the driveway in question and requests that there
are regulations put in place so that there are not too many days when the driveway is not
useable. Mr. Becker has a verbal agreement with the current property owner, Andrew Jeager
that Mr. Jeager would be responsible for the driveway. Mr. Becher thanked the Planning Board
for recognizing his wife’s landscaping and trying to preserve it. Mr. Becker stated that until
construction starts, he is responsible for snow removal on the driveway.
John McKeon 25 prospect place spoke next. His understanding is that 6000 sq ft of roof, patio
and deck stormwater is going to be contained in this caltec gravel system. Dan O’Connor said
that is correct. Mr. Mc Keon asks “Is that over rock ledge?” Mr. Mc Keon believes that no tests
were done in these areas to see if water will mitigate through the soil. John Mc Keon asks what
is the minimal depth at its minimum point of placement between the bottom of the caltec system
and the rock ledge because, Mr. Mc Keon believes the caltec system will be placed about two
feet underground, Mr. Mc Keon asks, “How deep is the rock ledge beneath the system?” Mr. Mc
Keon says, essentially, we have a 10,000-gallon water detention system put over rock ledge
with no perc test done in the area to determine whether water will mitigate through the soil and
we have a metered system that will take water down into the state stormwater system. Mr.
McKeon states that the misrepresentation gone on here is disturbing and asks the Planning
Board, in last 20 years, how many times on a Village Street have you allowed a single residence
to create a 12-inch pipeline to the stormwater system to alleviate and mitigate water on a private
single residence property.
George Appleyard of 127 N. Riverside Ave. spoke next and he had three points that he wanted
to make: 1) snow on retaining wall? He has never seen a plow lift snow up 3 feet. 2) concerned
about steep slope to the property, where water will pile up and has had experience of flooded
basement, has lost appliances, he is worried it will erode the soil and will perc down into the
basement where they have a tenant. They have never had water in this basement, they are
concerned that they will 3) Mr. Appleyard is concerned about his tenant needing to sleep during
the day. He does not see how he will get Croton rents in a construction zone. 4) how can they
be sure future owners will abide by the rules.
Steve Krisky asks how to ensure future owners of the property will be required to follow the
conditions of the Planning Board resolution. Dan O’Connor will speak to Village Attorney Linda
Whitehead to see how this will be done and if a more through legal document could be filed to
run with the property to hold future owners to plan.

4

Next to speak was Myra Owney of 135 North Riverside Ave. Ms. Owney saw Eva Thaddeus
walking by the property today and clarified that the tree she is concerned about is a large apple
tree on her property whose roots go back to where they would be digging in order to put in the
utilities and it is possible that this tree will die. It would cost $7,000.00 for the tree removed, if
needed and Ms. Owney requests something be set up so that she would be compensated if the
tree should die in the next five years. Ms. Owney is also concerned that trees on her neighbor’s
property could die and fall on her house. Neighbor Christine Corrado of 133 North Riverside
Ave. reports that there is a large mulberry tree on her property that is now dead and the roots of
that tree are on 123 N. Riverside. The Corrado’s lawyer sent a letter to Andrew Jaeger but has
heard no reply. There is also a huge pine tree on the Corrado’s property that is hundreds of
years old. The Corrados put up a fence that Andrew Jaeger said he would not remove,
however, he did. Christine Corrado would like the mulberry tree taken down. The applicant will
speak with Christine Corrado about where to put a gate in the proposed fence.
Myra Owney stated that she has great concern about the noise as she has a home business
and works online. Ms. Owney stated that it has been established that there is a rock ledge, how
is she to conduct her business? Ms. Owney also wonders who will maintain the area. Ms.
Owney also believes that there is supposed to be some space between sewer and water lines.
Last to speak was Louis Hatton, also of 137 North Riverside Ave. Mr. Hatton is concerned
about parking as they only have on street parking and he believes that the construction workers
may take all the parking spots. Mr. Hatton wondered if they can do permit parking. Steve
Krisky said that the Planning Board will try to address the parking issue.
No action was taken this night as the applicant has several items to come back with.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Referral from village Board of Trustees to Review an Application for a
Special Permit to run a day care center at 114 Grand Street at the Holy Name
of Mary Church.
The Planning Board discussed how Montessori School has been in the church for many years.
The maximum enrollment is 42 students, aged 3-6 years old. There are currently six instructors,
four part-time, and two full time. There is plenty of parking for the staff in the back of the building.
It was also discussed that the Engineering Office was not aware of any complaints regarding
parking or traffic during school drop-off or pick-up times.
The Planning Board recommends that the Village Board grant a special permit for a Day Care
Center with the following recommendations:
1) That the Special Permit should again be issued for a five-year period. The Planning
Board was reluctant to recommend a permanent approval, believing that the Village
keeps some leverage when managing special permits when there is an
understanding that they will need to be renewed. In this case, it will not be a financial
5

hardship as the application fee is waived.
2) Whatever requirements must be met to approve a Special Permit should be met,
for example, if Building Inspection or Fire Code Inspection is required, the inspection
should take place before the Special Permit is issued, unless the applicant can
provide a copy of a recent inspection report.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to recommend that the Village Board grant a special permit for a
Day Care Center at the Holy Name of Mary Church for a five-year period given that the
applicant meets the requirements of the special permit, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the
motion carried, 4-0 with Rob Luntz being absent.
b) Consider moving future Planning Board Meetings to 1st & 3rd Tuesdays of
the Month
Steve Krisky asked why this change was being considered and Dan O’Connor explained that
the Village Board meets on the second and fourth Mondays of the month and due to the many
holidays that fall on a Monday, they often have to reschedule for Tuesdays in the same room
where the Planning Board meets. If the Planning Board reschedules their meetings, it will avoid
potential future conflicts. The four Planning Board members present were fine with the change
and Steve Krisky will reach out to Rob Luntz, Chairman, to see if he too agrees and Steve
Krisky will then notify all.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTESa) Draft Minutes from October 25th, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of October 25th, 2022, as
amended, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 4- 0.
4. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
Geoff Haynes gave a thank you to DPW on behalf of the Trails Committee for taking down a big
tree. Geoff Haynes shared with the group that the Trails Committee has a wonderful
relationship with DPW and they are always helpful.
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 9:52 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

6

7

