VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 2022

PRESENT: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
Jim Tuman
Doug Olcott
Rocco Mastronardi
Daron Weber

ALSO PRESENT: Ronald Wegner, PE, Assistant Village Engineer

1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting to order at 8:01 p.m.

2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Rillosi, Antonio—123 North Riverside Avenue—Located in a RB 2-Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
as Section 67.2 Block 4 Lot 10.01. Request for a rear yard variance from Section 230-34
for a proposed carport for a new single-family dwelling.
PRESENT: Mr. Rillosi, Applicant
Chairperson Wagner opened the meeting by reminding the Board and the public that the
application was a continuation of the previous Zoning Board meeting and that a site visit to the
above-mentioned property had been conducted. The public meeting remained open. Chairperson
Wagner asked if the applicant, Mr. Rillosi, had any additional comments for the Board. Mr.
Rillosi stated that he did not have any comments. Chairperson Wagner then asked the Board if
they had questions for the applicant, the Board having no questions, the meeting was turned over
to the public.
Mr. John Mckeon of 25 Prospect Place, Croton-on-Hudson, NY came forward to be heard.
Mr. McKeon stated that he was present to speak in opposition to the issuance of the requested
variance for 123 North Riverside Ave. Mr. McKeon stated that the first matter he wanted to
address was a previous Zoning Board Resolution granted for 123 N. Riverside Ave. dated
October 14, 2020. Mr. McKeon stated that the resolution was for a driveway, that he believed did
not meet the 20’ft requirements of the Village code. Mr. McKeon stated that he did not
understand the nature of the variance because he believed it cannot extend on to a NYS road and
the requirements for a state road driveway is 20’ft. McKeon then stated that the current
application that was before the Board and submitted on August 24, 2022 is well over one-year
1

beyond the date the initial variance was granted in October 2020. Mr. McKeon stated that
according to Village Code Section 230-164E, the variance should no longer be valid. Mr.
McKeon stated that he felt the variance process (for the frontage) should be commenced again.
Mr. McKeon shared with the Board that after he reviewed Village Code Section 230-164E, he felt
that the matter before the Board was “totally inappropriate.” Mr. McKeon shared that he
provided the Board with a written document of protest that included what he feels are
“fundamental flaws” in the structure that is being proposed. Mr. McKeon then cited a NYS Fire
Code document he provided to the Board members (FCNYS Section 503.1.1-Fire Apparatus
Access Roads). The document specifically outlined the requirements for a non-sprinkler
premises. Mr. McKeon then mentioned a previous discussion of a private hydrant to be installed
at 123 N. Riverside Ave but stated that the current application before the Board is void of a plan
for a private hydrant for the property of which he described as a highly combustible area located
on a steep slope. Mr. McKeon continued to discuss his concerns about fire hazards and shared
that the fire dept concluded the only way to service the property with a house is from North
Riverside Avenue. Mr. McKeon then gave a brief history of the merging of 2 parcels to create
the current, single parcel. Mr. McKeon stated that the original parcel constituted an 18’ft right of
way up from N. Riverside Ave of which was conveyed by the Town of Cortlandt to the owner of
“a narrow strip” of property that ran approximately 200’ft in parallel to about 100’ft away from
North Riverside Ave and that it was intended to be an access road to service 2 estates on Old Post
Road North and they used those roads to also maintain the lateral support wall along the border of
the property. Mr. McKeon shared that easements were then granted to the neighbors for access to
their properties and that Mr. Brennan (original owner) partitioned what he described as a viable
RB zoned property, claiming that he “land locked” the back end of his property deliberately. Mr.
McKeon expressed his opinion that he felt through a series of maneuvers and allowances by the
Village, a new parcel was created that is “fundamentally flawed.” Mr. McKeon then stated that
according to the property records of the Town of Cortlandt, the parcels were not merged until
April 28, 2022 when lot 6 was merged with Tax Map #67.20-4-9 and are now being considered
for variances.
Chairperson Wagner then paused and asked that the meeting remained focused on the specific
variance being requested by Mr. Rillosi for 123 N. Riverside Ave. which is for the attachment of
a carport to the primary structure.
Mr. Mckeon expressed that it was his right to be able to argue an application in which he was
given legal notice because he believes the application includes multiple zoning violations.
The Board stated that the appeal of the previously granted resolution is not on the agenda but if
Mr. McKeon would like to explore his options and seek an appeal to the variances, he can
certainly do so and have it be placed on a future Zoning Board meeting agenda but that at this
time the Board has specific consideration to make on the application for a rear yard variance for
the attachment of a carport.
Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer, explained to Mr. McKeon that the variance that was
granted for 18’ft of frontage and not for the driveway. Mr. Wegner reiterated the granted variance
and that the property boundaries have already been established allowing for the 18’ft of frontage
on the roadway and the variance runs with the land.
2

Mr. McKeon then discussed the idea that NYS would allow for a variance associated with the
entrance of the driveway that comes to the end of the property before it enters into the state
roadway. Mr. McKeon stated that the plan detailed the flowing of 300’ft of stormwater from the
driveway into a pipe to a state storm sewer. Mr. McKeon stated that there had been “predicated
approval” of a plan on the basis that the State will allow for the Village to have a 12” pipe run
into the State stormwater system. Chairperson Wagner expressed the Board’s appreciation for
Mr. McKeon’s concerns however the points he raised were not relevant to the matter before the
Board and requested that he redirect his concerns specific to the matter before the Board.
Mr. McKeon then stated that 123 North Riverside Ave is located in an RB zone and that he holds
issue with the request for the variance that disregards a 20’ft setback requirement for the rear of
the property bringing it down to 11’ft and that he believes another issue is that the rear yard
setback in a RB district requires it be 25% of the lot and that the proposed building and carport
does not allow for 25% of the property.
Mr. Wegner asked Mr. McKeon where he found this information in the code. Mr. McKeon stated
that he found it in the old Village code. Mr. Wegner stated that the Board must use the current
code that is presently before them. Mr. McKeon insisted it was a violation of code but when
asked by the Board to direct them specific provision in the code, providing citation/code number,
Mr. McKeon was not able to do so. Mr. Wegner shared that there is a provision in the code that
discusses a 25% requirement but it is solely for undersized lots and that 123 North Riverside Ave
is not an undersized lot. Mr. Wegner and the Board then reviewed Village Code Sections 23010(A) One-Family Residence RA-25 District and 230-13 Two-Family Residence RB District.

Mr. McKeon then added that the property is located on a steep slope and that there is no detailed
plan on how the runoff from the carport will be mitigated. Mr. McKeon said that when looking at
property from the side view, it shows it on level land but looking at the topography, it goes from
140’ft of height from the NW corner to 120’ft of height on the SW corner, which is a 20’ ft drop
over a 55’ft span where there is a retaining wall that he believes has no plan. Mr. McKeon stated
that he is in disbelief that the construction of a house with a lacking design will be approved.
The Board stated that many of the questions raised by Mr. McKeon are not within the purview of
the Zoning Board and that the Board’s scope is very narrowly defined.
Chairperson Wagner stated that Board heard Mr. McKeon’s concerns and will take those relevant
to the application into account when making a determination on the application.
Chairperson Wagner then closed the public hearing.
The Zoning Board of Appeals then discussed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties
will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that after visiting the site, there would not be a negative effect on
the neighbors in having the carport attached to the primary structure. The Board agreed that for the
specific variance request before the Board, there would be no negative impact in that the
3

house/carport is tucked into the side of the hill where it is less noticeable and that there are
architectural details and added aesthetics in attaching the carport to the primary structure.
Furthermore, it was agreed that there is no height issue involving the carport and it will not block
views. The Board further noted the orientation and location of the house significantly reduces any
negative visual impact of the carport being connected to the house.
2

The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance.

The Board noted that if the carport was detached from the primary structure, it would be considered an
accessory structure and would not require a variance. Therefore, the Board agreed that the benefit of
constructing a carport, could be achieved through another means (without a variance). However, the
benefit sought by attaching the carport to the primary structure, including accessing the parking area
directly from the primary structure, could not be achieved by a method other than the requested variance.

3
The requested variance is substantial when viewed as a percentage of the required rear yard
setback. It is mitigated by the slope of the property including the setup, angle, and direction of
the primary residence and carport as well as by the increased distance of the structures from the property
line due to the carport being attached to the primary residence.

4
The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental
conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a rear yard variance of 14’ft to allow for the construction
of a carport attached to the primary structure, seconded by Chairperson Wagner. The motion was

carried by a vote of 5-0. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Chairperson Wegner, yes, Mr.
Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes and Mr. Weber, yes.

b) Conte, Victor—68 Grand Street—AMENDED-Located in a RA-5 Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.8 Block 6 Lot 64.
Request for a total side yard variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-33A for a rear
addition, a width & depth variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40E(2) for a proposed
portico as well as a front yard variance and a side yard variance from Village Zoning Code
Section 230-33A for an existing vestibule which was converted from an open porch in 1957.
PRESENT: Lou DeMasi, Architect
Chairperson Wagner reminded all present at the meeting that the application for 68 Grand Street and
public hearing remained open from the September 14, 2022 meeting and that a site visit had been
conducted at the property as well.

4

Mr. DeMasi began by sharing that the original ZBA application had been amended to include 3 additional
variance requests. Two new variances are being requested for the legalization of a 1957 front, enclosed
vestibule and one variance request for a new, proposed front porch in addition to the original total side
yard variance request for the proposed rear addition. Mr. DeMasi explained that the original intention for
the new porch was to construct a 6’ft by 8’ft porch but a column would block an existing window and
therefore they decided to increase the length of the porch by 1’ft making the porch 6’ft X 9’ft so that the
front window would not be blocked by the column. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer shared with
the Board that it was almost possible to add the porch without a variance but due to the increase of 1’ft, a
variance is now required. Mr. Wegner also explained that a building permit was granted for an open
porch (now existing vestibule) and a certificate of occupancy was issued for enclosing the original porch
to create a vestibule but that the setbacks were never considered in 1957 and while the permit and CO
were granted, a variance was never obtained back then for the enclosure. Therefore, Mr. Conte is
requesting the variances for the legalization of the existing vestibule. Mr. Wegner noted that the variance
may have been granted but the Building Department has no record of it.
The new, proposed porch was then reviewed. It was noted that in the Village Code, a 6’ft x 8’ft open
porch is allowed but because they are increasing the dimensions to 6’ft by 9’ft they need to request a
variance. Mr. DeMasi again noted that the increase of the dimensions (to 9’ft) is for the framing of the
front window and that the rationale is that in keeping the window where it is and moving the column of
porch helps it to look correct from the front (street view). There was then discussion on clarifying whether
the structure is a porch or a portico. It was determined that if the structure is a porch, it would require the
granting of variance of 6.25’ feet.
The Board then asked Mr. DeMasi if there was any change made to the original request for the rear
addition variance. Mr. DeMasi confirmed the original request for the rear addition remained the same.
The Board simplified the requests for the applicant, reducing the number of requests from 3 to 2 in that
the porch variance will also encompass the legalization of the 1957 vestibule. The Board discussed and
agreed it would make more sense to drop the front yard variance request of 6.25’ft for the new, proposed
front porch and to include it in the allowance of the construction of the porch under the requested front
yard variance of 7.4ft’ for the legalization of the existing front vestibule. All of the Board members
agreed that this made the most sense.
Chairperson Wagner then asked if anyone wanted to be heard as the public hearing was still open.
Ms. Kathleen Parker of 70 Grand Street stated from the rear of the room that her only concern is with the
rear addition to the house and not with variances requested for the front porch and existing vestibule.
With no further comment from the public, Chairperson Wagner closed the public hearing.
The Board then discussed the 5 Factors and determined that:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board agreed that after conducting the site visit, the variance requests are straightforward and the
proposed rear addition is well within the footprint of the house. They further agreed that the views from
the neighbor’s 2nd floor would not be obstructed by the new addition. Furthermore, the deck is in as of
5

right and does not require a variance. The Board agreed that the alterations to the home would be an
improvement to the neighborhood. The Board also agreed that the vestibule has been in existence since
1957 and that granting of the variance to legalize it would not have a negative impact on the
neighborhood and that the construction of a new front porch would be an improvement to the property.
2.
The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that the front porch could be built to 6’ftX8’ft not requiring the
need for a variance but it would not be as aesthetically pleasing with the column blocking the
front window and the rear addition could be built smaller but would not create the needed space
for the desire room.
3.

The requested variance is not substantial.

The Board noted that all variances requested are minimal and very close to being permissible
dimensions (not requiring variances) and therefore are not substantial.

4.
The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

The Board discussed and agreed that the alleged difficulty was partially self-created in regard
to the new construction (rear and front porch) but not with the vestibule as it was pre-existing.

Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a total side yard variance of 2.3’ft for a rear addition, a side
yard variance of 2.3’ft and a front yard variance of 7.4’ft for the legalization of an existing
vestibule. It was noted that the front yard variance of 7.4’ft is to encompass the allowance for the
construction of a new front porch. The motion was seconded by Mr. Mastronardi. All in favor.
Roll Call: Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes. Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr.
Weber, yes.

3. NEW BUSINESS
a) Snilsberg, Thor—98 Hastings Avenue—Located in a RA-5 Residential District
and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
79.13 Block 3 Lot 5. Request for a side yard variance and total side yard variance
from Section 230-33A for a proposed extension of a front porch.
PRESENT: John Power, Architect
Mr. Power began by introducing himself as the architect for the project and noted that his
client, Mr. Snilesberg was not present at the meeting. Mr. Power then explained that a
6

few years ago he designed an interior alternation for Mr. Snilesberg’s house which was
originally a 2-family home that was converted to a one family. Mr. Power stated that
there were originally 2 purple, arched front doors in a symmetrical layout one of which
was removed and that the current location of the existing porch does not allow for the
main entrance to be covered. Therefore, his client is requesting a variance to expand the
porch to cover the main entrance to the dwelling. Mr. Power went on to clarify that the
request is to widen the porch and not to increase the depth of the porch and that the
project will include creating a new entrance removing the existing purple door. Mr.
Power shared with the Board that his client does not use their arched, purple door because
it is not covered and that they utilize only the front French doors which was pointed out
in the photos provided with the application. Mr. Powers reiterated that the front porch
existed when it was a 2 family and only one purple door was eliminated. Mr. Power
pointed out that on the the left side there is a bump out that is within the 8’ft and it is a
snug fit but the request is to widen the porch to allow for a covered entrance and a porch
swing and noted that the width of the porch will be at the width of the house. Mr. Power
stated that the extension of the porch will help to create better curb appeal, an improved
aesthetic to the home and covering the entrance to the home serves a functional purpose.
The Board noted that a letter of support was provided from the neighbor located at 102
Hastings Ave which is the dwelling to the right 98 Hastings of whom would be most
affected.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the meeting to the public and with no one being heard,
the public meeting was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals then discussed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that there would be no negative impact on the neighborhood in
that there is already an existing porch and that the extension would only help to improve the curb
appeal and character of the neighborhood.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance.
The Board agreed that the applicant could achieve the benefit of the porch with another design.
however, it would be less than desirable and would not allow for the new entrance to be covered.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Board discussed and agreed that there is an existing front porch and extending the porch to
the end of the primary structure is not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district;
5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
7

MOTION: Mr., Mastronardi made a motion to grant a variance for a 1’ft side yard
variance and for 2.2’ft total side yard variance for the extension of the front porch located
at 98 Hastings Ave, seconded by Mr. Tuman. All in favor.
b) Pulsone, Domenick—72 Oneida Avenue—Located in a RA-5 Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 10
Lot 43. Request for a variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40A(1) to allow an
existing accessory building (hot tub) in a front yard less than 5’ft from a property line and
for a variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40B to allow an existing accessory
building (hot tub) to be nearer to the street than the primary building (house).
Present: Mr. Domenic Pulsone, Applicant
Mr. Sheridan, Associate
Mr. Sheridan stated that they were present at the meeting to request 3 variances for an existing
hot tub. The applicant stated that they needed a variance for an accessory structure (hot tub) for
the front yard and a variance to allow for the hot tub to be located closer to the primary structure
than normally permitted. Mr. Sheridan explained that the property is a corner lot so it in essence
has 2 front yards. Mr. Pulsone stated that the hot tub was installed 12 years ago and that they are
now selling the house and the hot tub requires legalization with variances and a certificate of
occupancy. The applicant explained that the fence on the Hastings Ave side is 6’ft tall but that
the property also slopes up there as well and has a retaining wall. The applicant stated that the
hot tub is in no way visible from the street. The applicant provided the Zoning Board with two
letters of support from neighbors of whom both stated that they did not know the hot tub was
present on the property for 12 years. The Board acknowledged that one cannot see the hot tub
from the street and the fence is solid making it impossible to view from the street. The Board
raised the concern that the only potential issue coils be if a shorter fence is ever installed.
However, the applicant raised the point that even if a shorter fence be installed, there is a
retaining wall because of the slope and that the hot tub is sunk into the ground so it would not be
visible even with a 4’ft, shorter fence installed.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the public meeting and hearing no comment from the public,
the hearing was closed.
The Board discussed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties
will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board noted that the existing hot tub cannot be seen from the street and has been in place for
12 years with no neighbor complaints.
2.
The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.
8

It was discussed and agreed that because it is application to legalize an existing hot tub, the
benefit of keeping the hot tub in its current location cannot be achieved by another method.

3.

The requested variance is substantial;

4.
The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

Mr. Weber made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 3’ft an accessory structure in a front
yard and closer than 5’ ft to allow an existing accessory building (hot tub) to be nearer to the
street than the primary building (house), Seconded by Mr. Tuman. All in Favor. Roll Call: Mr.
Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes. Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr. Weber, yes.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the May 11, 2022 minutes seconded by
Mr. Weber. All favor. Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr.
Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes.
Mr. Tuman made a motion to approve the June 8th 2022 minutes seconded by Mr.
Mastronardi; all in favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Weber,
yes, Mr. Olcott, yes, Chairperson Wagner abstained.
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the July13, 2022 minutes, seconded by
Mr. Weber; All in Favor. Roll call: Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr.
Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, abstained, Mr. Olcott, abstained.
Mr. Tuman made a motion to approve the September 14, 2022 minutes seconded by Mr.
Mastronardi, all in favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Weber,
yes, Mr. Olcott, yes, Chairperson Wagner abstained.

5. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was duly adjourned at 9:32 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

9

