WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, September 21, 2022 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT  Ms. Ann Galelli, Chairperson
         Mr. Stuart Greenbaum (Absent)
         Mr. Len Simon
         Mr. Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O'Connor, P.E. Village Engineer

1) CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of September 21st, 2022 to order at 4:35 pm.

2) REFERRALS

   a) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
      Consistency Review for Local Law Introduction 11 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning Law to
      expand the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area and to modify the regulations for that
      area to encourage residential development.

   b) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
      Consistency Review for Local Law Introduction 12 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning Law to
      modify the regulations for the LI zoning district in the area near the Metro-North Croton-
      Harmon Train Station to allow for transit-oriented residential development.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the two referrals listed above.

The WAC reviewed the EAF and had no changes.

The WAC reviewed the CAF and recommended changes as noted in the memo attached.

WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo attached.

Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of consistency.

MOTION: Len Simon made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Leo Weigman, and the motion carried, by a vote of 3 - 0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Len Simon made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting June 27th, 2022, seconded by Leo Weigman, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:12 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee
**APPROVED 1/12/23 3-0**

Tel: 914-271-4783       www.crotononhudson-ny.gov       Fax: 914-271-3790

---

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman
ANN GALLELLI
Members
STUART GREENBAUM
LEN SIMON
LEO WEIGMAN
Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO:     Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM:   Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:     Referral from Village Board for LWRP Consistency Review regarding Local Law
        Introduction 11 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning Law to expand the Harmon/South
        Riverside Gateway area and to modify the regulations for that area to encourage
        Residential development and

        Referral from Village Board for LWRP Consistency Review regarding Local Law
        Introduction 12 of 2022 revisions to the Zoning Law to modify the regulations for the
        LI zoning district in the area near the Metro-North Croton-Harmon Train Station to
        allow for transit-oriented development.

DATE:   September 22, 2022

On September 21st, 2022, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the two referrals from the Village Board listed above. Based on the Committee's review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 3-0 all in favor, with Stuart Greenbaum being absent.

The WAC reviewed the CAF and the following change was noted:
The following should be added to Page 1, Section B "Description of Site and Proposed Action," Number 2, "Describe nature and extent of action":

A change to the underlying zoning of one of the parcels proposed to be added to the HSRG Overlay (Parcel 47 - tax parcel #79.13-2-91) from a split-zone of C-2/RA-5 to C-2.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies were relevant:

POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and policies.

The zoning code is being amended to expand the Gateway Overlay Distract and allow Transit Oriented Development for the light-industrial district.

POLICY 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and facilities essential to such development are adequate, except when such development has special functional requirements or other characteristics which necessitate its location in other coastal areas.

Any new building will be served by the Village's public water supply and wastewater collection systems. Electric, gas and telecommunication services are readily available. Mass transit (rail and bus) are within walking distance.

POLICY 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas where distribution lines currently exist.

Any new building will be served by the Village's public water supply and wastewater collection systems.

POLICY 5B: The extension of water and sewer distribution lines beyond areas currently served should be undertaken cautiously and with prudent regard for Village water resources and the preservation of environmental values in undeveloped areas.

Extension of the Village's wastewater collection system will be requird for additional development in the TOD area proposed in Local Law 12. Also, minor extensions of the Village's water distribution system may be required for additional development in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay District (Proposed Local Law 11) and TOD area (Proposed Local Law 12) to ensure the required fire-fighting flows are provided.

The WAC believes that the proposed revisions to the zoning code will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783       www.crotononhudson-ny.gov       Fax: 914-271-3790
