APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, November 29th, 2022
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), C. Colombo (133), J. Streany (275), M. Feminella
(162), D. Vlad (318), B. Powers (474), W. Skiba (267), T. Kaplan (501), G. Tucci (284)
EXCUSED: K. Goldstein (576), M. Mansfield (320)
Department Members: T. Dinkler (152), J. Delaney (350), E. Conti (137), D. Dunn (342), C.
Caterino (539)
Others in Attendance: Village Trustee Len Simon, Village Manager Bryan Healy, Jason
Celente
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Chief Munson at 19:03.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Presentation by Jason Celente of Croton Cub Scouts
looking for CFD to support organization and/or offer our facilities. Discussion followed.
Village Manager Healy reported the Village received a $100,000 Grant from Senator Peter
Harckham towards upgrades/addition of Harmon Firehouse.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion: J. Streany / 2nd M. Feminella to approve the minutes of the 10/25/2022 Council
Meeting – CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
• Motion W. Skiba/2nd Tucci to approve Excuses – CARRIED.
• Letter from Washington Engine indicating Ryan Howles and Chris Colombo Jr. have
requested to change their status from Social to Active within that Company. Motion J.
Streany / 2nd G. Tucci to approve – CARRIED.
• Transfer request from Elizabeth Conti from Harmon Engine to Washington Engine
received. Motion J. Streany / 2nd G. Tucci to approve – CARRIED.
• Transfer request from Michael Slevin from Chemical Engine to Fire Patrol received.
Motion G. Tucci / 2nd W. Skiba to approve – CARRIED.
• Letter from Fire Patrol indicating Adrian Monroe was dropped from their Company as an
Active Member in Good Standing. Motion J. Streany / 2nd D. Vlad to approve – CARRIED.
• Letter from Hook & Ladder indicating Jheison Castro was dropped from their Company
as a member in Bad Standing and has not returned his issued equipment as of yet. Motion
D. Vlad / 2nd G. Tucci to approve – CARRIED.
Reports of the Chiefs
J. Munson (2081)
 E119 back in service (out for over a month). E120 at Hudson Valley Fire Equipment for
repairs. T10 awaiting repairs to fuel and water tanks.
 New M12 committee nearing completion of specs.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, November 29th, 2022
 Numerous training classes/drills scheduled for first few months of 2023.
 Recent change in daytime responses has seen an increase in average amount of
personnel and a faster on scene arrival time – thanks to all.
 Department will go unstructured for all calls soon, finalizing SOGs for it.
 Croton Police cohosting Toy Drive with Caring Committee, will be collecting toys this
week from those interested to make a large donation on behalf of this department.
 E118 Bay Floor work ongoing, expected to be able to put apparatus back in bay as early
as end of this week.
 Harmon Firehouse architects did measurements last week, meeting planned in January
to start working on design ideas.
J. Karpoff (2082)
 The new IAR displays/computers nearing completion in all firehouses.
 No other updates on ongoing IT project.
 WECO phone installs still a work in progress. J. Streany asked about securing
phones/wifi equipment better.
 Reminded all that the Firefighter 1 Checklist must be completed for all new students.
 Thanked all for responses to recent alarms.
C. Colombo (2083)
 Exterior door on north side of WECO replaced by DPW.
 Bathroom door at Grand Street Firehouse repaired by DPW.
Reports of Committees
Big Bucks – J. Streany provided final report. 2nd Prize Winner donated $500 to Department.
Money to be given to Treasurer to deposit in Council account.
By-Laws – Discussion regarding pending proposals. President Munson directed committee to
meet and present proposals to the Companies to vote on prior to December 12, 2022 as the
process has not been handled properly or in a timely fashion.
Investigation Committee – All nominees were found to be acceptable at this point in time.
LOSAP – T. Dinkler reports issues entering data as we work on moving to new records
management system. Needs committee members from all five companies.
Fund Drive – T. Dinkler brought up discussion about “Thank You” notes, asked for interested
person(s) to start taking over this task for him which he has led for over 20 years.
Special Order of Business:
None
Unfinished Business:
None.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, November 29th, 2022
New Business:
Discussion about the proposal from the Boy Scouts.
J. Streany received check from Town of Cortlandt from annual First Responders Golf Outing.
Motion J. Karpoff / 2nd J. Streany to place check in amount of $740 in Council account –
CARRIED.
J. Streany will arrange annual Council Dinner Meeting for December 27th.
J. Munson requested up to $3,500 for annual Holiday Party. Motion J. Karpoff / 2nd J. Streany to
approve – CARRIED.
J. Munson requested up to $1,000 for Children’s Christmas Party. Motion W. Skiba / 2nd G.
Tucci to approve – CARRIED.
J. Munson requested up to $750 to purchase winter hats for all member. Motion J. Streany / 2nd
D. Vlad to approve – CARRIED.
J. Streany asked about department interest in attending parades, discussion followed. Survey of
membership to go out.
B. Powers asked status of gear purchase issue with Chemical Engine. J. Munson reports
Department paid outstanding invoice, and the gear is department property now. Effective
immediately, no Company or member can purchase gear/equipment to be used with the
Department without approval of the Department first.
J. Streany reports Village is having 125th anniversary in 2023, several events being planned.
Treasurer’s Report: Balance of about $27,964.34 per Phil Dinkler via email. Deposited all of the
Big Bucks funds earlier today.
Motion to Adjourn by G. Tucci /2nd D. Vlad – CARRIED. M eeting Adjourned at 20:29.

Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 11/ 30/ 22.
M inutes approved 12/ 27/ 22.

