Planning Board Meeting Minutes
December 13th, 2022
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Eva Thaddeus
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Sherry Horowitz, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT: Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of December 13th, 2022 to order at 8:01 p.m.
2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Referral from the Village Board of Trustees to review a special Permit Application from
Dish Wireless to collocate new transmission equipment on existing wireless tower near
Croton-Harmon Train Station
Greg Lahey of Tectonic Engineering and Daniel Patrick of Cuddy & Feder, LLP were present in support of
the application. Daniel Patrick reported that Dish was established in the past few years, coming out of the
merger between Sprint and T-Mobile when T-Mobile was required to sell some licenses to prevent a
monopoly. Dish are required to offer coverage to 70% of the country by 2023, and are looking for space
on existing telecommunications towers. The existing tower near the Croton-Harmon Train Station is 142
feet tall and Dish wants to collocate at the 85-foot level. There will be no increase in tower height and no
increase to the base station. Dish plans to paint their antennas a cool blue color to match the existing
antennas and surrounding environment. Metro North currently use the tower, and they have their own
separate, private network. The owner of the tower, M&B Towers, LLC worked with Sprint to leave the
platform for Dish. Sprint will take their wires off the tower. When asked why Dish did not plan to occupy
the top of the tower, Daniel Patrick stated that Dish is a new carrier and have will be serving a smaller
number of clients. Dish is proposing only three antennas, even though there is space for nine antennas.
Steve Krisky asked if this was not counterintuitive, as occupying the top if the tower would likely provide
optimal cellular service to Croton residents. Geoff Haynes stated that he did some research and it looks
like Dish is using band 70 part of spectrum that is more software based, and maybe that factored into the
decision.
Rob Luntz notes that there is an osprey nest at the top of the tower where the Sprint materials are. Dan
O’Connor says that Sprint will have to relocate the nest. Currently, the nest is inactive. Dan O’Connor
stated that the ospreys have been using the tower for many years, and although they are not there now,
they could come back. Rob Luntz reported that it is quite common for poles to have platforms for birds to
use, so if we are going to have 12 feet or so empty space on this tower, why not put a platform for the
birds, it is a great opportunity for nature. Attorney Daniel Patrick says that Dish are not involved in what
Sprint does. The Planning Board members agreed that the Village Board should engage with an expert
to see what would be most beneficial for the birds. Rob Luntz says that he is in favor of Dish collocating.
John Ghegan asks if 70% of the US must be covered by June, 2023, will this change the number of

1

people that the tower serves? Daniel Patrick says that Dish is a new carrier, not every Sprint customer is
transitioning over to Dish. Geoff Haynes asked why MTA and Town of Ossining are listed as interested
parties on a resolution, Dan O’Connor and Daniel Patrick replied that it is due to proximity.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the concept that the Planning Board have no objection to
the Village Board being lead agency on this project for SEQRA review, seconded by John
Ghegan, and the motion passed, 5-0.
The Planning Board recommends that the Village Board grant a special permit for Dish Wireless
to collocate new transmission equipment on existing wireless tower near the Croton-Harmon
Train Station with the following recommendation:
1) That the Board of Trustees consult with Cari Andrews, Village Bird Commissioner, or Charlie
Roberto to investigate opportunities for establishing an osprey platform at the top of the tower.
b) Referral from Village Board to review Special Permit for a Non-Conforming Use for Ella 1
LLC, 193-195 Grand St (68.17-4-58)
Owner Ron Napolitano and Attorney Luke Hilpert were present in support of the application. The
applicant is seeking a special permit for non-conforming use which will be ground level apartments in this
former bar space. The applicant believes that ground level apartments could be good for senior citizens.
The applicant addressed an email and photographs sent from a former tenant with many complaints
regarding the condition of the building. The applicant reported that the building had changed since this
tenant moved out and further changes are planned, including; replacing the roof, replacing the oil burner,
bringing all plumbing up to code, and addressing water drainage issues. When asked about the second
floor of this building, the applicant reported that there are two two-bedroom apartments up there that are
already upgraded and renovated (the applicant provided photographs). Also, by changing from a bar to
apartments, the need for approximately 15 parking spots will be eliminated. Ten parking spots are
proposed behind the building. Steve Krisky asked about handicapped parking and the applicant reported
that he will make one spot a handicap parking space. The applicant reports that you will be able to pull
into the parking lot from Harrison Street.
The three new apartments will be one-bedroom units. The applicant plans to put a little patio in front of
each apartment. The applicant owns this building and the one next door and each building has access
through the front and back. On the back of the building, large concrete stairs will be eliminated. There are
new gas fired boilers in the basement which will be hooked up.
Rob Luntz asked if the applicant received permits for the renovations on the second floor of this building
and the applicant responded that they did not need to as they cleaned up, changed cabinets, etc. When
asked about the pictures from the former tenant, the applicant replied that he needed four 40-yard
dumpsters to remove the debris that was left behind when this tenant moved out. The applicant spoke of
the former tenant using drones to take pictures in front of other tenant’s windows. Steve Krisky asked
about the water issues cited in the letter. The applicant stated that he never saw water in the basement,
but he did see water in the patio area by the back door. The applicant stated that any issues with the
water will be addressed when the whole back area is fixed up.
Rob Luntz asked for clarification on the balcony. The applicant stated that he wants some coverage for
the tenants during snowy weather. The balcony will go the length of the building in the back. The
applicant reports that he purchased the building in 2017. When asked about the roof, the applicant

2

reported that there will be a flat roof. Steve Krisky asked the applicant if he has considered solar on the
roof. The applicant also indicated that he would explore that possibility.
Rob Luntz suggests maybe an awning or some type of covering. The Planning Board encourages the
applicant to go a step further to have a nicer streetscape for the village. The applicant says he will get
professional help in terms of aesthetics. Rob Luntz also mentioned the building next door and suggests
that this building, that the applicant also owns, could be cleaned up.
John Ghegan asked if the bedrooms will need fire escape windows upstairs and Dan O’Connor states
that bedrooms need escape windows and that there are building codes for new construction. Eva
Thaddeus confirmed that this application was solely for change of use and that the applicant will come
back with revised plans once he is seeking site plan approval. Geoff Haynes asked if 193 Grand (the
building next door, also owned by the applicant) is covered under the existing non-conforming use and
Dan O’Connor said that the buildings were built in 1925, so they did not need to comply with zoning.
Geoff Haynes asks about the dens in each of these three proposed one-bedroom apartments and how to
control if the den is used as a second bedroom. Rob Luntz says that given the size of the room labeled a
den, it looks like a bedroom. The applicant said that the thinking behind the den was that many people
now work from home and this space would be ideal as a home office. It was mentioned that the landlord
could have some control with a lease. After some discussion, it was deemed that calling the space a den
is correct.
Geoff Haynes said that it is a relief that the applicant is taking care of any issues during the renovation
and advises the applicant that the letter from the former tenant will be passed along to the Village Board
with the Planning Board’s recommendation. Attorney Luke Hilpert says that all the remediations were
already on the plans. When asked about a timeline, the applicant stated that he would like to have the
apartments completed by March or April and that he has contractors in place.
Neighbor, Jerry DeMarco of 6 Harrison Street was present and stated that he was in favor of the change.
Jerry DeMarco said that he was looking forward to the front of the building being spiffed up and it will be
nice for the building to be aesthetically improved. The applicant also stated that there will be a new
garbage area with two dumpsters in a gated/fenced area.
John Ghegan made a motion to make a recommendation to the Village Board to approve the change of
use from commercial to residential on the first floor of this property and that the Village Board strongly
consider a condition that requires the applicant to work with the Planning Board during site plan review to
make improvements to the current rendering to make the building façade and patio areas architecturally
more exciting and vibrant for the neighborhood and that the deficiencies pointed out in the letter from the
former tenant be addressed during project construction and that the applicant considers the installation of
solar panels on the roof of the building. Eva Thaddeus seconded the motion, and the motion carried, 5-0.
c) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review an application for a Special Permit to run
a day care center at Happy Hearts on the Hudson located at 10 Old Post Road South (78.87-5)
The Planning Board discussed how Happy Hearts on the Hudson received a Special Permit in 2009 for a
Day Care Center on the first floor of the property located at 10 Old Post Road South. In 2013, the day
care center expanded to include the lower floor of the building and the Special Permit was modified to
include the expansion. The Special Permit is, at this time, expired. The Planning Board Members

3

discussed that the Engineering Office was not aware of any complaints regarding parking or traffic during
drop-off or pick-up times.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to recommend that the Village Board reissue the Special Permit for a Day
Care Center for Happy Hearts for a five-year period, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion passed,
5-0.
3. OLD BUSINESS
a) MAF Realty (Mark Franzoso) 74 Grand Street (78.8-6-59) – Request for extension of Minor
Site Plan Approval
The original application for this Minor Site Plan Approval came in seven years ago and Rob Luntz says
nothing has changed. Currently, the applicant is requesting a two-year extension for the minor site plan
approval. According to an email from the applicant, he is finishing up current projects and plans to build
on these lots in 2024.
Steve Krisky asked if the lots were being maintained and Dan O’Connor replied that yes, the applicant
maintains the front of the properties and there have been no complaints regarding either property.
Geoff Haynes expressed concern about the neighbors and inquired if anything has changed that would
make the extension of the approval hard for the neighbors. Rob Luntz replied that at the time of the initial
approval, the area at the back of the lots was addressed. Dan O’Connor said that there is an erosion and
sediment control plan in place. It was also mentioned that the retaining walls behind these lots have been
upgraded from wood to ready rock.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the extension of this Minor Site Plan Approval for two years
with the following conditions, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion passed 5-0;
1) That the vegetation along Grand Street (sidewalk area) be maintained and
2) That the vegetation on the remainder of the property also be maintained including trees,
especially trees not shown to be removed on the approved site plan. Maintenance of
vegetation shall also include the removal and/or cutting of invasive plants
b) MAF Realty (Mark Franzoso) 78 Grand Street (78.8-6-56) – Request for extension of Minor
Site Plan Approval
The original application for this Minor Site Plan Approval came in seven years ago and Rob Luntz says
nothing has changed. Currently, the applicant is requesting a two-year extension for the minor site plan
approval. According to an email from the applicant, he is finishing up current projects and plans to build
on these lots in 2024.
Steve Krisky asked if the lots were being maintained and Dan O’Connor replied that yes, the applicant
maintains the front of the properties and there have been no complaints regarding either property.
Geoff Haynes expressed concern about the neighbors and enquired if anything has changed that would
make the extension of the approval hard for the neighbors. Rob Luntz replied that at the time of the initial
approval, the area at the back of the lots was addressed. Dan O’Connor said that there is an erosion and

4

sediment control plan in place. It was also mentioned that the retaining walls behind these lots have been
upgraded from wood to ready rock.
Rob Luntz made a motion to approve the extension of this Minor Site Plan Approval for two years with the
following condition, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion passed, 5-0;
1) That the vegetation along Grand Street (sidewalk area) be maintained and
2) That the vegetation on the remainder of the property also be maintained including trees,
especially trees not shown to be removed on the approved site plan. Maintenance of
vegetation
shall also include the removal and/or cutting of invasive plant

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Draft Minutes November 29, 2022 Planning Board Meeting
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of November 29, 2022, as amended,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:05p.m.
5. NON- ADGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
Steve Krisky asked about a Water Control Commission application from Hudson National Golf Club
regarding an irrigation project and Wetlands Permit and if this application will be coming before the
Planning Board. Dan O’Connor reported that there is a quirk in the wetland law language. A wetlands
permit application normally goes to the Water Control Commission, but because there is a pending
application for a special permit (solar) on the property, then it should have come before the Planning
Board. It went to the WCC in error. HNGC are now discussing withdrawing the solar application. Dan
O’Connor will speak to HNGC as will as the Village Manager and Village Attorney.
Rob Luntz spoke of receiving a call at his workplace regarding HNGC’s WCC application. Rob Luntz
would like to go on the record and state that if someone wants to speak with him regarding Planning
Board issues, they should go through the Village and the proper channels so that it is on record. Rob
Luntz will not be returning the phone call that he received at his office.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

**Steve Krisky made a motion to approve minutes, as amended, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the
motion passed 5-0 at the 1/17/23 Planning Board Meeting**

5

