MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Jan. 22, 2023 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Brian Pugh
Dan Columbini
Joel Gingold
Jon Katz
Bernie Yozwiak
Ashley Clemente David Goldman

Absent:
Len Simon
Niall Kelleher (in Ireland until March)

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): none
Announcements:
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC-sponsored projects
Washington firehouse solar rooftop: on 11/21, NYSERDA formally approved Croton’s
NY-SUN incentive for $43,296 for application #0000500682 for this project. We had
applied for the incentive in mid-2022, but its formal OK was delayed. When combined
with our CEC grant, the bottom line cost should be low enough to also cover part of
the cost of another municipal EV. Due to minor design changes, peak capacity was
reset to 36.08 kW. Installation was completed 1/21/23. Punch list and Con Ed
issues continue into February, after which electric bill reduction should begin.
Firehouse HP controls: Carey & Walsh (C&W) said (1/9) that interface devices needed
for the project are still on back order.
On 11/30, Dan O’Connor and Ron Wegman (both from the Village Engineer’s office)
took live training on energy codes. Doing so is a CEC task that netted us another 200
points. On 12/14, NYSERDA moved us up from 3rd place to 2nd place in the State’s
CEC Scorecard, tied with Hastings, at 7,100 points. Bedford is in 1st place with 7,300
points. Once the firehouse HP controls job is done, we’ll get 700 more points, moving
us to 1st place in the State (unless our competitors grab more points in the interim).
- Other Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Groundbreaking started 11/14 with drilling for canopy footings
at the far south end of the parking lot, working their way north. Regarding payment of
a customer acquisition fee to Croton for electric accounts we would secure for
SolSystems (municipal and residential), Sol declined on 11/22. Such an arrangement
could have given Croton a one-time fee of $40K-$60K.

1

School solar rooftops: All should now be online, totaling 381.5 kW. Paul Gibbons,
school facility manager, stated (11/17) “PVC is online. HS is complete and CET is
almost complete. We are working on scheduling ConEd switchover for HS and CET.”
Hudson National solar project: In early January, the Village got letters from the
developer and the Golf Club withdrawing their applications, thus ending the project.
New solar options: Credits under our “Community Solar 2.0” effort (started in mid2021) should soon appear on participants’ Con Ed bills as “adjustments”. Ecogy is
now offering us a “Comm. Solar 3.0” deal to be powered by its Kitchawan Farms
facility in Ossining, scheduled for startup in fall 2023. Subscribers (including those in
CCA) would get a 5% discount off Con Ed bills (~$100 a year). To secure them, Ecogy
offered us one-time acquisition fees of $.02/W (~$120/customer) for low-income
people and $.01W (~$60) for others. Low-income means earning <$108K per year.
The fees would go to the Village, earmarked for new GHG reduction projects. Getting
~100 (a reasonable goal) subscribers could net (one time) $8K- $10K. Brian agreed to
raise the option with the Village Attorney to assess its legal viability.
Park alienation exemption: In a political upset, NY Assbly. Rep Steven Englebright (D)
of Long Island lost his seat to Dan Flood (R). Englebright held that position for 32
years and chaired the Assembly’s Environmental Conservation Committee (ECC).
Despite multiple requests, he blocked discussion of a bill (passed by 62-1 in the State
Senate) that could exempt solar canopies over parking lots at parks from the outdated
and laborious alienation exemption process. The new chair is Deborah Glick (D,
Manhattan). We may revisit the issue with State Sen. Harckham, our new State
Assby. rep, Dana Levenberg of Ossining (newly appointed to the ECC), and NYPA.
Brian stated that Harckham has re-introduced his bill, and that support for it has been
expressed by the NY State Conference of Mayors and NY Association of Counties.
- EV/EVSE
We continue to wait for word from DEC on our ~$150K grant application to cover train
station chargers, installation, electrical infrastructure, and 2 years of free charging.
In mid-November, the charger/trenching layout (diagram reviewed during October’s
meeting) at the train station was reviewed by SolSystems. While some minor issues
(crossing over a planned drain line, proximity to a few footings) the general layout was
deemed acceptable. Adjustments will be made to avoid conflicts.
In mid-December, 4 single port L2 EV chargers were installed at the DPW on Rt. 129.
The parking lot is reserved for DPW employees, and is not accessible to the public.
On 12/8, Con Edison announced that (starting 1/1/23) the SmartCharge Rewards
program was ending for residential and small commercial customers on a Time-of-Use
(TOU) electric rate. On 12/27, it announced the program was replaced with ev.energy,
which works as a cellphone app. Final payments under SmartCharge will be made by
2

late February. Bernie detailed issues he had with the new program, which uses an
EV’s internal software to report charging data. For his 2020 Toyota Prius, he had to
subscribe (~$7/month) to an additional Toyota service to upgrade his car’s software.
- Funding Sources/Issues
Regarding potential Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) funding for projects in Croton, Len
provided a “Guide for Local Government Leaders” from the Climate Mayors
organization. From it, Lindsay concluded that we need to wait for details (which vary
widely across the programs) before determining how to proceed. Find Len’s report at
the end of these minutes. These other conclusions were reached:
- Because we don’t qualify as a federal (versus State) disadvantaged community
(DAC), some IRA benefits are not available to us.
- Among them, the major direct (i.e., no State involvement) federal funding options
pertain mostly to energy efficiency work in homes, or to heavy municipal vehicles
(e.g., garbage trucks). For the latter, appropriate models either do not yet exist, or
their prices are still too high, even with IRA and State funding support.
- For IRA programs that instead give money to states, we must wait until IRA rules for
State programs (i.e., NYSERDA, DEC) are established to access them.
- The timetables for the above vary widely, with some starting in March/April 2023 or
later, while others have not been developed.
Regarding recent direct funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL), Len
reviewed its $550M in energy efficiency community block grants (EECBG). He found
that communities of our size would be competing for the $2,010,912 in EECBG allocated
to NY State small munis. Since it will likely be divided among many of them, Lindsay felt
it may not be worth seeking. We may, however, be able to access BIL funding through
other State programs being developed.
A possible path forward in 2023 could focus on promoting residential heat pumps for
which both IRA and NYSERDA financial assistance will soon be available. If HPWH
grant funding looks good, we could finally move on that earlier stalled program.
Regarding changes to NYSERDA and Con Ed incentives, we await reports from each.
- Food Scrap Recycling Program
Due to supply problems with the scrap caddies, the Dec. 4 distribution event was
delayed to Jan. 7. For that event, the Town of Ossining had loaned us 40 caddies. The
missing units then arrived Jan. 4, so Ossining’s units were returned with a “thank you”.
Thank you to Bernie, Dave, Joel, and Jon for their help. Of 40 households that had
signed up, 37 (including 1 from our waitlist) picked up their bins and bags by Jan. 17.
We have spare supplies for another 9 (4 bins arrived broken) and ~35 on the waitlist.

3

The first drop-off date was Jan. 14. It went very well, yielding ~150 lbs. of scraps. Due
to issues with the County’s carter, the first scrap pick-up by the County will be Jan. 23.
Our February meeting will review scrap volumes and any new issues.
- Other Reports
On 11/15, Dave reviewed slides from a webinar on eliminating solid waste incineration
via a proposed County-wide Zero Waste program, sponsored by the Westchester
Alliance for Sustainable Solutions (WASS). It was founded in May 2022, sparked by
the impending re-licensing of the Charles Point incinerator. While much of the webinar
may be useful elsewhere, little was relevant to our work. Some content was out-ofdate or otherwise did not address ways to cut GHG emissions. Lindsay suggested
that, if changes to Charles Pt. are to be pursued, a carbon capture system may be
feasible technically and (with new IRA incentives) financially.
On 12/1, actual construction (as versus just land clearing, etc.) commenced on the
Champlain Express (CHPE) power line. Starting in 2026, it will bring 1,250 MW of
Canadian hydropower from Quebec to the New York City metro area.
On 12/3, Niall reported that “the Village is holding off on building the 3rd Community
Garden. They want a plan for the entire park before approving this part of it.”
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
Members of Westchester’s Sunrise Movement (youth climate action group) had
promised us a review of IRA grant options for municipalities by mid-November, but it
never materialized. The last communication from the group was in mid-October.
Bernie mentioned his mentoring of a high school student developing a design for an
EV charging station at the Yorktown Triangle Shopping Center.
On 12/29, Adlin Hadad reviewed a PR option with Westchester Magazine (“choose
your favorite Sustainability Committee”) but concluded it was not worth pursuing. Joel
voted for our committee.
On 1/12, Charlotte Green, co-president of Croton High School’s 13-member Green
Team, asked about participating in a composting program. She was directed to the
school system’s Environmental Sustainability Comm. which oversees the school
composting effort, and to CAC and C100 for other environmental activities. She will
contact us if the group develops an interest in cutting GHG emissions.
- New Business / Other Issues
Bernie asked about enforcement of the 3-minute vehicle idling law, esp. with concern
over school buses and commercial vehicles (e.g., delivery trucks). Brian reminded us
that it only applies when the temperature is above 32 F, and does not apply to first

4

responders’ vehicles. Problematic sites include warming up cars in driveways, waiting
at the train station, and sitting at Croton Landing Park. After some discussion, Brian
indicated that the County’s “bounty” law (which rewards reporting of offenders) may be
the best way to enforce compliance. No other action was proposed.
The annual “thank you” reception for all committee members will be held Jan. 24 on
the 2nd floor of the Harmon firehouse (Wayne St. at the west end of Benedict Blvd.).
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, Feb. 26, at 10:30 AM via zoom.

5

Len’s (12/1/22) report on funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) via its
Energy Efficiency Community Block Program (EECBG)
So now that the funds have officially been allocated (it only took a year!), we know that:
1. the total funding that goes to the states is $123.2 million.
2. The New York share of that total will be $3,351,520.
3. Of that amount 60% will have to be passed through to NY communities less than 35,000
in population.
4. That 60% will equal $2,010,912.
Since that amount is a relatively small sum for all of the NY communities under 35,000 in
population to be competing for, it will be interesting to learn how NY will propose to distribute
those funds so that individual grants a small community can obtain will be large enough to be
meaningful.
It is likely that NYSERDA will be the recipient of the EECBG funds for the state.

6

