MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, June 26, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Joel Gingold
Bernie Yozwiak
Niall Kelleher
Dan Columbini
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: We again thank the Village for sponsoring our zooms.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- Stretch Code Adopted!
Thank you to all who assisted. The 6/6 hearing on Stretch went off OK, and the VB
adopted Stretch on 6/21, effective 6/22 (8 days before CEC’s 6/30 deadline). All
paperwork to both the Dept. of State and NYSERDA was submitted 6/23. Len thanked
Village engineers Dan O’Connor and Robert Wegman and others for their assistance
and support throughout this process.
- NYSERDA CEC grants and projects
Campaigns: On 5/23, NYSERDA awarded us the $5K grant for our EV campaign. On
6/22, it awarded us the $5K for our HP campaign. Paperwork to get checks for both has
been submitted. We have now won $120K in the CEC Leadership Grant program. The
last $5K grant and 1,200 CEC points will come after NYSERDA OKs our Stretch Code
paperwork, probably by late July.
Washington firehouse solar rooftop: On 6/6, the VB approved Croton Energy Group’s
[CEG] proposal. On 6/24, CEG submitted its draft construction contract for Village staff
review. It looks to finish the job (if started soon) by October. Once the Village signs the
contract, we can apply for 25% of the grant ($22,500) and start the work. The revised
NY-SUN incentive manual came out 6/7. For that project, it will produce a surplus of
~$33K that (with NYSERDA permission) will be used to buy down the cost of the next
municipal EV.
HP controls proposal: Jon secured a refreshed proposal from Carey & Walsh. At
$13,585, it’s still under $20K, so no RFP or bidding is required. On 6/15, a package of
documents related to the project was sent to Village staff for comments and approval.
Once we have their input, Jon and Lindsay will set up a site meeting with Village staff
and Fire Dept. officials to review the project.
- EV/EVSE

1

Via email, former committee member David Goldman reviewed the potential of the Ford
F150 Lightning EV to handle some DPW tasks. While he found that its horsepower was
similar or greater than that of DPW’s pickup trucks, it was not designed for “commercial”
work such as snow plowing. Its transmission could not handle it and the present version
does not allow attachment of a plow. As such, we will not ask DPW to consider it until
later versions overcome those limitations. Other details developed by Dave’s research are
at the end of these minutes. Dan found the F150 Lighting’s base cost is ~$42K.
A 6/23 development regarding funding for EV charger infrastructure at the train station is
discussed under “Funding Sources” below.
- Funding Sources/Issues
Regarding the cessation of Con Ed rebates for residential ASHPs and HPWHs, Jon
verified that the statements sent to us by SW on the matter were legitimate. Dan checked
the status of rebates for commercial ASHPs and HPWHs, and found they too have
already been fully committed. Rebates remain available for GSHPs for both residential
and commercial projects.
On the PowerReady incentive for EVSE infrastructure, a 6/16 zoom with Con Ed verified
that sufficient funds have already been allocated (not spent) such that new applications
will be wait-listed until an existing application is dropped due to no activity for 6 months. A
PowerReady application will be submitted by Lindsay, just in case a spot opens up.
Fortunately, on 6/23 DEC issued a Request for Applications (RFA) for its new EV charger
and infrastructure grant program. It would cover up to 80% of the cost, with the Village
needing to provide a 20% match. We cannot use any of our $5K NYSERDA grants for a
match. We asked DEC if the match could instead be provided via our leasing deal with
SolSystems wherein we are indirectly paying for the wiring conduits. [On 6/27, they
emailed a long answer that boiled down to “no”.] Bernie recently completed a Scope of
Work (SOW) and spec to help determine the grant we would need and is now developing
a cost estimating spreadsheet to do so.
Deadline for applications is 9/22, but we need to apply ASAP lest those funds be quickly
consumed by others’ projects. Several paper-based tasks will be distributed among
committee members to expedite grant app completion. Assignments to come by July 15.
Another new DEC grant will pay down the cost of new EVs and PHEVs based on miles
per charge and vehicle weight, ranging from $2,500 to $7,500 per car. The Village may
pursue such grants for its pending EV purchases.
Because the Washington firehouse is within the Climate Justice Working Group’s (CJWG)
new map of Disadvantaged Communities (DACs), and our grant for that project is over
$20K, we may be eligible for a $10K bonus grant. The map (see last page) is not yet
official, so we asked NYSERDA if starting the job before then could cause us to miss that
bonus. We await its answer. $10K could pay for a few more train station EV chargers.

2

Solar projects within Croton’s expected DAC could also apply for an extra $.10/W NYSUN incentive. But that could entail a delay that might jeopardize locking in the $1.20/W
incentive we want. The firehouse job didn’t need the extra $.10/W and was not pursued.
Croton Landing Park is also within Croton’s DAC and could seek the $.10/W, but it’s too
little to yield a significant increase in projected leasing revenue.
- Other Solar Projects
Train station canopies: At 5/25 and 6/16 meetings, SolSystems and Core Development
(its contractor) stated that the final 50% drawings showing proposed trenching should
arrive by the end of June. The completed ground-penetrating radar (GPR) survey found
no problems. Bedrock was located 90-100 feet below the surface. The canopy piers will
need to be drilled to that depth. The full report will be available by the end of June. POs
have been issues for the transformers and other items involving long lead times, but
supply chain issues have already arisen. Sol’s revised construction schedule would start
work this October, with completion by 8/23.
Croton Landing Park canopies: Regarding park alienation exemption issues, we have not
yet received answers to questions posed to State Assembly staff by Bryan Healy on 4/25.
In the interim, Dan O’Connor provided several maps showing legacy easements over one
of the 2 areas where canopies were planned. Dating from 1962, they involve the railroad
which until then owned the site. They essentially eliminate the northern section (next to
blacktop) where 2/3 of the canopies were to be installed.
However, the southern section (by the graveled area) is clear of such encumbrances. But
only a ~140 kWp system would fit into it. Ecogy is reviewing it if wishes to pursue such a
small system. The new NY-SUN incentives are insufficient to produce even $1K/yr of
leasing rent, which is unacceptable to the Village. Even taking 40% of its power for Village
accounts (allowed under community solar rules) would get us only an additional ~$1K/yr.
To build it without a community solar contractor would require getting a ~$500K grant Just
in case those issues are eventually resolved in favor of proceeding, Lindsay will pursue
an alienation exemption.
“Solar Credit Offering”: Sustainable Westchester (SW) is developing an essentially optout community solar program for low-income customers getting government aid on their
utility bills (called Assistance Program Participants [APPs]). If we agree to pursue it, we
could get 500 points under the CEC’s “Opt-Out CDG” [Community Distributed Generation]
action. More points help us secure future grants.
On 5/24, Lindsay attended a SW zoom on the program. He learned that Westchester
County has 30,408 APPs, of which Croton has ~52. The PSC is developing an order
allowing the offering under several conditions. After serving the APPs, it may be extended
to other low-income customers. At SW’s request (and with Mayor Pugh’s OK on 6/3),
Lindsay provided supportive comments to the PSC on the program. SW did not identify
the ~180 MW of solar needed to supply ~30,000 APPs.
3

Getting the 500 CEC points would require all of a municipality’s eligible APPs to be opted
into it. But several of Croton’s APPs may already be enrolled in our Ecogy / DPW
community solar program. NYSERDA personnel felt that they would not be considered
“eligible” for Opt-Out CDG, so we would not need to involve them to win the CEC points.
There is some confusion regarding how much of the power from the train station canopies
has been committed to Croton’s municipal accounts and thus how much would be
available for APPs. While taking up to 40% was discussed during lease negotiations,
there was no mention of it in the signed version, so we asked Bryan Healy to clarify the
issue. If all our APPs ended up taking opt-in community solar from the SolSystems’
canopies, none would be eligible for Opt-Out CDG.
The offering – and our CS 2.0 program, the power for which is to come from an Ecogy
Shrub Oak project – requires consolidated billing which (due to Con Ed’s software
problems) is still not in effect. Joel inquired on its status. He was told that anyone who
signed up for it could drop out any time with no penalty and go with another community
solar provider. A complaint against Con Ed to the PSC on consolidated billing was
initiated in April. Brian requested the case number. [It is Matter No. 22-00801. Find it at
https://documents.dps.ny.gov/public/MatterManagement/CaseMaster.aspx?Mattercaseno
=22-00801 ]
Regarding further details on the Solar Credit Offering, we were told to wait for the PSC
order on the program, expected before the end of the summer. At best, Opt-Out CDG
would not take effect until early 2023.
- Other Reports
Lindsay thanked Joel for his efforts on items that, in their ends, had no effect or our work.
Grand St. firehouse electric billing: Regarding its 2008 solar installation (~6 kWp installed
by NYPA), an anomaly on NYPA billing for the site prompted Lindsay and Jon to review
how it accounted for the solar output. Apparently, NYPA never told Con Edison of the
installation so no solar crediting process (e.g., net metering) was ever set up for it. They
concluded that the existing metering created a de facto net metering situation. There was
thus no point to seeking a refund of changing the existing (albeit crude) billing process. To
avoid future confusion, NYPA agreed to drop a fictitious solar meter from its invoices.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
Bernie recruited an intern (Yorktown High School junior Abhishek Nair) who will assist him
over the summer with cost estimating the train station EV infrastructure. On 6/15, Bernie
and Lindsay zoomed with him and Paul Rubeo, his teacher/mentor.
- New Business / Other Issues
In light of soaring power pricing and the temporary suspension of CCA, Jon suggested we
consider another Solarize campaign. A 6/13 email from Claire Kokoska, Manager of SW’s
4

Solar Programs, stated: “After 2018 with the launch of Community Solar and with the
expiration of tax credits that made residential solar more attractive to homeowners, we
pivoted from Solarize Westchester to Community Solar. Though we retired the Solarize
Westchester program for several years, we have been exploring a reboot of the program,
although it would operate slightly differently. We will notify you of any developments as
the potential program takes shape in the coming months.”
Leo Wiegman, SW’s Director of Solar Programs, on 6/14 added: “The first Solarize 1.0
was funded by NYSERDA. The second Solarize 2.0 was funded by success fees paid by
the developers, but required [monitoring] every potential prospect every step of the way
each week. They were successful, as you point out, but incredibly labor intensive.
We are contemplating a new funding approach to run a lighter touch, less labor intensive
Solarize 3.0, based on the 2022 solar world”.
A survey to determine community interest was discussed. Of Croton’s ~3,000 owneroccupied single-family homes (which account for nearly all residential solar installations),
over 200 already have solar. Based on past Solarize programs, only ~10% of all homes
(i.e., in this case ~300) that consider solar ever install them due to issues such as solar
exposure, roof condition, financing, etc. That leaves maybe ~100. Financial incentives
have dropped since the last program, reducing that number and making it difficult to ID
those owners. We agreed to wait for SW’s new program before pursuing our own actions.
Lindsay raised the possibility of using output from SolSystems’ 15 MWh battery during a
long power outage (e.g., August 2020) to feed the cell tower, parking lot lighting, and
other loads in the west parking lot. Such a hookup is called a “Solar Powered Community
Resilience Hub”. Bernie looked into how it could be done. Most of the cost would be
eligible for a new NY DEC grant. When asked about this option, Bryan Healy responded
(6/21): “Thank you for looking into this. However, the west side of the lot is susceptible to
flooding (albeit less susceptible than the east side). So I think it is best to not move
forward with this.” We agreed to not pursue this option.
Joel mentioned that comments on the Climate Action Council’s (CAC) ~400-page report
to the State on how to pursue CLCPA’s goals are due by Friday, July 1.
Date for our next was set for Sunday, July 24 at 10:30 AM via zoom. Bernie and Jon will
be on vacation. We discussed taking a hiatus in August, but will assess that in July.

5

Appendix on pickup truck horsepowers vs. F150 Lightning, as per David Goldman
The Ford F150 Lightning EV has 441 HP at 4,000 RPM. Is that enough to plow snow?
- HP turns out to not be the issue. Transmission won’t allow commercial apps. No
way to even attach a plow.
- standard F150 475 HP, 6.7-liter, 8 Cylinder Engine (Diesel Fuel)
- F250 XL 430 HP, 7.3-liter, 8 Cylinder Engine (Gasoline Fuel) There are different
models. The SuperDuty Limited has an engine option for the 6.7L Power Stroke V8
Turbo Diesel with HP of 475
- F350 430 HP, 7.3-liter, 8 Cylinder Engine (Gasoline Fuel); super-duty uses diesel,
475 HP
-F450 XL 475 HP, 6.7-liter, 8 Cylinder Engine (Diesel Fuel)
- F550 XL 385 HP This was harder to find and appears to have many mix-match
combinations.
Fuel
26.5 gallons (F-350 SRW w/68D Payload Downgrade Pkg.)
Capacity
40 gallons (F-350 SRW/F-350 DRW/F-450/F-550/F-600; NA with
68D Payload Downgrade Pkg. on F-350 SRW)
66.5 gallons (DRW - dual diesel tanks)
385 HP@ 5,750 rpm | 430 TQ @ 3,800 rpm
F550XL Horsepower | Torque
(6.2L V8)
330 HP @ 2,600 rpm | 825 TQ @ 2,000 rpm
(6.7L Power Stroke® Turbo Diesel)
335 HP @ 3,750rpm (7.3L V8)

6

Croton DAC zone as projected by the Climate Justice Working Group (CJWG)

7

