Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, December 19, 2022, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room
at the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson,
NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Treasurer Tucker
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Village Manager/Deputy Village Clerk Bryan Healy swore in new Trustee Nora
Nicholson.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, claims numbered 22232595 through 22232840. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$167,364.79
6,415.73
2,805.28
456,624.40

3. PRESENTATON By Nicole White, Croton Hydrilla Control Project Manager
To view the power point presentation, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202212/3da67b48c69c1e6ad9c1da1e814dd0e1e467b960.pdf
4. PUBLIC HEARING
A Motion to open a Public Hearing on the Special Permit renewal
application for the operation of a day care center at 114 Grand Street at
the Holy Name of Mary Church was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
There being no comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 2

DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that the Planning Board, in their letter dated
November 30, 2022, recommended that the Special Permit be once again issued for
a five-year period, but the Church has requested that a permanent Special Permit
be issued, the last permanent Special Permit that the Board approved for this type
of institution was to the Circle School Day Care Center.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that generally Special Permits are considered to
run with the land so while you can put an expiration on them, the Board would be
hard pressed to deny a renewal absent of any significant changes in circumstances.
Trustee Simon stated that, with respect to these types of institutions, he would
think that consistency is important.
Resolution 203-2022
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit renewal
application for the operation of a day care center at 114 Grand Street at the Holy
Name of Mary Church, and
WHEREAS on November 21, 2022, the Village Board referred the special permit
application to the Village Planning Board in accordance with Village law, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board has provided the board with a memorandum in
support of the application, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on December 19, 2022,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues
a special permit for the operation of a day care center at 114 Grand Street at the
Holy Name of Mary Church.
5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL – none
6. CORRESPONDENCE

2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 3

a. Draft Letter from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated December 13,
2022, to be forwarded to the New York State Department of
Environmental Conservation regarding the East of Hudson Unit
Management Plan and Croton Gorge Unique Area.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202212/245ade5f7dd561dc05ddc4bd345b197a3a3808ff.pdf
Trustee Simon thanked Village Manager Healy for putting together an
excellent letter.
b. Letter from Ingrid Haeckel, Conservation and Land Use Specialist of
the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation dated
December 16, 2022, advising that the Town of Cortland and the Village
of Croton were not chosen for the Natural Resources Inventory
Technical Assistance Project grant.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202212/84ae65acbd14a8a32897e98556a8a4062fe70567.pdf
c. Email from John Munson, President of the Croton Fire Council
regarding the results of the annual election of Fire Chiefs for the
Croton Volunteer Fire Department
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202212/6e78317710ca0015a35b307fe6e2cefb953ec694.pdf
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that while he is
pleased with the appointment of Trustee Nicholson, he feels that an
election should have been held, stated that he is still looking for an
apology from School Board member Joshua Diamond to the Fire
Department, commended the presentation made by Nicole White on the
Croton Hydrilla Control Project as well as the draft letter written by Village
Manager Healy to the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation.
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #204 of 2022
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 4

On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on September 23, 2013, the Village Board of Trustees approved the
renewal of a special permit for the operation of a day care center at 10 Old Post
Road South, and
WHEREAS this special permit has expired and must be renewed in accordance with
the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code, and
WHEREAS Happy Hearts on the Hudson has submitted a special permit renewal
application with the appropriate fee, and
WHEREAS on December 5, 2022, the Village Board referred the special permit
application to the Village Planning Board in accordance with Village law, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board has provided a memorandum of support for the special
permit renewal application,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a public hearing to be held on Monday, January 9, 2023, at 7:00 PM in
the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal
Building to consider the issuance of the special permit.
Resolution #205 of 2022
On motion of Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the property owner of 193-195 Grand Street has submitted a special
permit application and the associated $400 fee to convert the existing mixed-use
building, a nonconforming use, to an all-residential building with a total of five
residential units, another nonconforming use, and
WHEREAS a change from a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use is
permitted under section 230-53A(2) of the Village Zoning Code if deemed to be the
same or of a more restricted nature by the Village Board of Trustees, and

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 5

WHEREAS on December 5, 2022, the Village Board referred the special permit
application to the Village Planning Board and Westchester County Planning Board as
required by law, and
WHEREAS the Westchester County Planning Board has responded that the
application is a matter for local determination, and
WHEREAS the Village Planning Board has provided a memorandum of support for
the special permit renewal application,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a public hearing to be held on Monday, January 9, 2023, at 7:00 PM in
the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal
Building to consider the issuance of the special permit.
Resolution #206 of 2022
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Code for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was originally
codified in 1990, and
WHEREAS in 2022, General Code® of Rochester, New York conducted an editorial
and legal analysis of the Village Code to ensure that all fines, legislation, and
references are up-to-date and in line with New York State and neighboring
communities, and
WHEREAS after such review, it was found that some areas of the Village Code are
in need of updates, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 18 of 2022, has been drafted for such
purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing for Monday, January 23, 2023, at 7:00 PM in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 18 of 2022, updating and
clarifying certain provisions of the Village Code.
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 6

Resolution #207 of 2022
On motion of Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Simon, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson initiated the preparation of a Local
Waterfront Revitalization Program Amendment in cooperation with the New York
State Department of State in accordance with the provisions Article 42 of Executive
Law, and
WHEREAS the Draft Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) Amendment
has been prepared under the guidance and review of the Village of Croton-onHudson LWRP Advisory Committee, with consultant planning services provided by
BFJ Planning, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees, as lead agency, has
prepared an Environmental Assessment Form to evaluate the potential
environmental impact of adopting the LWRP Amendment, in accordance with the
requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA) and Part 617
of the implementing regulations of Article 8 of the New York State Environmental
Conservation Law, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees determined that this
action has no anticipated adverse impacts upon natural, institutional, economic,
developmental, and social resources of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and have,
therefore, prepared and filed a SEQR Negative Declaration in this regard, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees held a public
workshop on June 30, 2015, to gather public questions and comments on the Draft
Amendment to the LWRP and, in evaluation of this input, has determined that the
Draft Amendment to the LWRP is complete and ready for required review by all
appropriate organizations and state and federal agencies,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Draft Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program Amendment for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is accepted by the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees as complete and ready to be submitted to
the New York State Department of State for State, federal and regional agencies
review, pursuant to the provisions of Article 42 of the NYS Executive Law, and
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 7

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that one certified copy of this resolution be given to the
New York State Department of State together with the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Draft Local Waterfront Revitalization Program Amendment.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that the original LWRP was created in 1992 and is the
foundation for our Waterfront Advisory Committee and has provided Croton with
leverage in certain circumstances in the past.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village of Croton was one of the first
communities in the State to adopt a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program and we
are hopeful that this will streamline the review processes.
Resolution #208 of 2022
On motion of Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the arts and humanities have long been a significant and vibrant part of
the character of the Village; and are intrinsic to community quality of life, and
WHEREAS the Village is committed to continuing and increasing and supporting the
presence of artists, writers, performers, and musicians in the community, and the
access of the whole community to arts and humanities, and
WHEREAS on May 20, 2019, a permanent advisory council to the Village Board of
Trustees, titled the Arts & Humanities Advisory Council (AHAC), was established
with the intent to support increased public awareness and appreciation for the arts,
the integration of art into our public spaces, and to recognize and celebrate the
achievements of our local arts community, and
WHEREAS in pursuit of this intent, the Village Board desires to increase the
membership capacity of the Arts & Humanities Advisory Council,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the membership capacity for the Arts &
Humanities Advisory Council is hereby increased from no more than seven
members to no more than nine members, and

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 8

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that up to three members of the Arts & Humanities
Advisory Council need not be residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson but must
reside within the County of Westchester.
Resolution #209 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on June 7, 2021, the Village Board selected AKRF, Inc. of White Plains,
New York, to serve as its planning consultant for developing conceptual designs
regarding the potential zoning changes in and around the Light Industrial and
Harmon Gateway Zoning Districts, and
WHEREAS the Village is interested in soliciting interest and future redevelopment
proposals for the approximately 1.2-acre Village-owned parking lot known as “Lot
A” located on the north side of Croton Point Avenue at the intersection of Veterans
Plaza, and
WHEREAS Lot A is located within the Village’s Light Industrial (LI) zoning district
and is included within the area of the LI district subject to recently adopted Local
Law No. 14 of 2022, and
WHEREAS the Village is seeking assistance in developing a request for proposals
(RFP) for the site and
WHEREAS AKRF has provided an additional proposal in the amount of $12,000 to
cover this work,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to accept the proposal from AKRF in the amount of
$12,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this work is available in capital account
H8020.2107.23449.
DISCUSSION:

8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 9

Trustee Simon stated that he is grateful that we are moving forward, AKRF did a
commendable job with our rezoning effort, and he is glad to see them involved in
the RFP (Request for Proposal).
Trustee Gallelli stated that this is the next logical step following the rezoning of this
area.
Mayor Pugh stated that he believes that a version of remote/hybrid work is here to
stay, and we are at the point where we need to look at adaptive reuse of this
property and he looks forward to seeing what comes out of this process.
Village Manager Healy stated that the sale of parking permits at the train station
has rebounded somewhat since 2020 but we are still not anywhere near the levels
we were at prior to Covid.
Resolution #210 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson owns and maintains emergency
generator systems at various buildings and facilities throughout the Village, and
WHEREAS the Village desires to perform periodic preventive maintenance on the
systems and to provide 24-hour emergency service for the systems when needed,
and
WHEREAS on November 3, 2022, the Village advertised for proposals on this work
(RFP #03-2022), and
WHEREAS four responses were received by the specified deadline of December 9,
2022, and
WHEREAS the lowest responsible response was submitted by Gentech Ltd. in the
amount of $10,880.00, and
WHEREAS after reviewing the responses received, the recommendation to award
the contract to the lowest responder, Gentech Ltd. of New Windsor, New York, has
been made by Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works,
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 10

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to award the contract for generator maintenance services to
Gentech Ltd. in the amount of $10,880.00.
Resolution #211 of 2022
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on November 13, 2022, the front gate of the Department of Public Works
facility was damaged by a passing vehicle, and
WHEREAS the gate is no longer operable and leaves the facility accessible after
operating hours, and
WHEREAS General Municipal Law Section 103(4) allows for the Board to let a
contract without public bidding where necessary due to a public emergency arising
out of an unforeseen occurrence or condition, and
WHEREAS Superintendent of Public Works Frank Balbi has received two formal
proposals and one estimate to replace the damaged gate, and
WHEREAS Superintendent Balbi recommends proceeding with JC Ironwork and
Steel Fabrication of Poughkeepsie, New York, who have provided an estimate to
replace the gate at a cost of $39,866.00,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby declares the
replacement of the Department of Public Works facility entrance gate to be an emergency
situation, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the Village Manager is authorized to accept the estimate
from JC Ironwork in the amount of $39,866.00, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $39,866.00 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account: A1640.4600 Garage – Buildings & Ground.
DISCUSSION:

10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 11

Village Manager Healy stated that a portion of this will be covered by our insurance,
and we are hoping that we will be able to seek restitution for our deductible.
9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, thanked the Board for
allowing the Menorah to be placed on Benedict Blvd., concerned about
allowing a five-story building in Parking Lot A, addressed dangers with
respect to the trail along the Croton Gorge and thanked the Board for
their efforts in trying to resolve this.
10.APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Organizational Meeting
held on December 5, 2022, was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on December 5, 2022, was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson stated that she is delighted to be serving in a Village
where she was born and grew up, there have been so many wonderful
changes in Croton over the years and looks forward to working with the
Board.
Trustee Simon stated that on December 7th he had the honor of
representing the Village at the Pearl Harbor Day ceremony, on December
8th he attended the American Legion holiday party, on December 8th he
and Trustee Gallelli met with the 125th Anniversary Committee, last week
residents and users of the Black Rock Dog Park reconvened and they
have come up with some new ideas, and thanked those involved for their
hard work, the Croton Rotary received a grant from Rotary International
for bird houses and they will be meeting with Cary Andrews and
members of the Arboretum to talk about placement of these bird houses.
Trustee Simon welcomed Trustee Nora Nicholson to the Board.

11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 12

Trustee Gallelli welcomed Trustee Nora Nicholson to the Board, the 125th
Anniversary Celebration Committee continues to work hard on events to
celebrate this milestone, the Recreation Department will be holding the
first House Decorating Contest, and directed everyone to the Village’s
website for more information.
Trustee Horowitz welcomed Trustee Nora Nicholson to the Board, advised
that the Arboretum is in the process of updating their website, the Arts
and Humanities met for the first time this month since Covid and they
are putting together suggestions for the 125 Anniversary celebration, this
past weekend the Croton Artisans held their annual holiday boutique, and
on Saturday evening the Croton Chorale performed at the Asbury
Methodist Church.
Mayor Pugh thanked all of Croton’s community organizations for doing
tremendous work throughout the year, and thanked the Croton Food
Pantry, Croton Caring Committee, as well as the Croton Yacht Club for
donating proceeds from their Christmas dinner to the Croton Caring
Committee to help those in need during the holidays.
Mayor Pugh welcomed Trustee Nicolson to the Board and appointed her
as liaison to the following: Recreation Advisory Committee, Arboretum,
Croton Library, Arts and Humanities Advisory Council, Diversity and
Inclusion Committee, Police Advisory Committee, and the Zoning Board
of Appeals.
Village Manager Healy asked residents to make sure to check their
garbage and recycling schedule because of the changes due to the
holidays, and wished everyone a Happy Chanukah, Merry Christmas, and
a Happy New Year.
Mayor Pugh and the entire Board wished everyone happy holidays and a
happy and healthy New Year.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:30pm
Respectfully submitted,
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
December 19, 2022
Page 13

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

13

