MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, May 22, 2022 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Len Simon
Joel Gingold
Bernie Yozwiak
Niall Kelleher
Brian Pugh
Jon Katz

Absent:
Dan Columbini

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Guest(s): none
Announcements: We again thank the Village for sponsoring our zooms.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- Earth Day April 30
Thank you to all who helped staff our table, and to Janet Monahan of the CAC who gave
us the covered picnic table at the entrance. Despite the gusty winds, everything went
well. People took our flyers, names were added to or emailing list, and much good will
was created for our committee. If next year’s Earth Day is also held at Senasqua Park,
Janet said she would reserve the covered picnic table for us.
- NYSERDA CEC grants and projects
On 5/10, a webinar clarified how new NY-SUN incentives could significantly cut the cost
of the Washington firehouse solar project. See further discussion below. The revised
NY-SUN Operating Manual will be issued on 5/31, after which that project can file for the
higher incentive. Next steps: Lindsay will get approval from Village staff for CEG’s
proposal and its contract to perform the work.
On 5/19, Jon secured a refreshed heat pump controls proposal from Carey & Walsh
(C&W) that includes prevailing wage. At $13,600, it’s just a tad higher than its original
proposal. Since it’s still under $20K, no RFP is required. Before our next meeting, Jon
and Lindsay will set up a site review with Village staff and Fire Dept. officials to kick off
the project. Jon will ask C&W to provide its contract for Village approval. With it, we can
apply for 25% of the grant money to get the installation work under way.
- Heat Pump Campaign
The campaign is done. As of 5/19, we logged 14 HP installations. Only 5 were needed to
get a $5,000 grant and 500 CEC points. Nearly all are ASHPs. Some of the same sites
also had HPWHs, 2 HPWHs are by themselves, and there was 1 GSHP. Two other
responders claimed to have installed heat pumps but were mistaken. Another declined to
provide requested information. The HPs were found via: a NextDoor.com posting, the
eagle eyes of Jon and Dan at 3 new homes on Wells Ave., another on Cleveland Drive, a
Gazette LTE, C100’s newsletter, various social media, the River Journal article, and
1

eblasts by Bernie, the Village, and our committee’s list. We also gave out HP flyers at
Earth Day. Paperwork to NYSERDA for the grant and points was filed on 5/19.
- Funding Sources/Issues
Via email, Dan detailed his research into the utility “Cost Sharing 2.0” (CS 2.0) program
being pushed by the solar industry to cover costs to upgrade power distribution to solar
sites. It’s presently before the PSC for approval. Some proposed projects in the Con Ed
territory would require expensive feeder upgrades which (without CS 2.0) could cost too
much for a solar project to bear. None of our present projects need that help.
Len reported on the viability and timing for seeking a large ($1+ million) grant for Croton
Landing Park under Community Project Funding (CPF) in the annual federal
appropriations process. Each Representative gets funding “earmarks” that it can provide
to communities in its district, with one to each. Due to redistricting, Rep. Mondaire Jones
may be replaced by Sean Maloney who previously repped the district just north of us.
Len reviewed guidance from congressional committees to see if such a project would be
acceptable. Grants range from $70K to $3M, with an average of ~$750K. Each would
require a 50% match (a deal killer for Croton Landing) but the Village has other (nonenergy) projects it would likely prefer for its one grant. Timeline: submit proposals in April
2023, responses by Dec. 2023, spending in spring 2024. We will not pursue it further.
On 5/12, Con Ed announced that all rebate funds for ASHPs and HPWHs were spent.
They were expected to last into 2025. No more rebates for them are available unless
funded by the PSC. The $1,000 HPWH rebate was key to promoting that option. GHSP
rebates are still available, but it’s unclear for how long. Sustainable Westchester is
leading an effort for a PSC proceeding to remedy the situation. Jon will review docs
[subsequently sent to all committee members] on the matter and clarify any details.
Funding under Con Ed’s PowerReady EV infrastructure program has also run out. We
had been planning to seek it for the train station project. Through the end of March, it
funded infrastructure for 359 EV chargers, of which 42 were DC fast chargers. Con Ed is
wait-listing applicants, but it may be a year before the PSC authorizes new funding.
Plan B is to seek similar funding from either the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, probably in
the early fall, or sooner via an upcoming DEC Request for Applications (RFA) for EV
infrastructure. DEC said it will be similar to the last one, so Bernie reported on its likely
requirements. There is no minimum grant, and the peak is $250K. Rough costing for the
train station EV infrastructure work is at least $100K. The grant requires metering of the
chargers pursuant to calculating reductions in GHG reduction from their use. Bernie is
detailing a Scope of Work (SOW) and spec to nail down the EVSE costs.
To assess the potential grant size, we needed to know Croton’s Median Household
Income (MHI) for 2020. Len found it was $135,845. Under DEC’s rules, that would
require we provide 20% of the cost (i.e., $20K+). Bernie found that we can’t use other
2

federal or State grants for the match. We may be able to count the SolSystems’ payment
for the empty conduits toward that 20% since it is coming out of our leasing revenue.
Jon mentioned the July 1 deadline for applications under DEC’s Climate Smart
Community (CSC, not CEC) grant program, but we had already reviewed the options and
found none that were relevant to our carbon-cutting focus.
Joel reported on a NYSERDA grant program focused on getting a handful of State
municipalities to develop building codes that would (for new buildings) yield net zero
energy homes and businesses. Only 4 municipalities would be eligible for grants up to
$500K each to research and develop such codes for use in their jurisdictions. The most
likely recipients would be cities with staffing to pursue the grants and comply with their
requirements. We saw no reason to seek such a grant.
- Other Solar Projects
Train station canopies – The 50% plans (needed for permits, charger siting, etc.) arrived
5/3. The water management section was not included, pending completion of the groundpenetrating radar (GPR) survey presently underway. Village staff are reviewing the
plans. An in-person meeting of all parties is set for Wednesday, May 25 at the Muni Bldg.
[At that meeting, Sol’s contractor projected major work to start in mid-October, with
completion by August 2023.]
Croton Landing Park canopies – To clarify issues related to limiting the size of alienated
property, Bryan Healy on 4/25 submitted 4 questions to Assembly staff involved with
alienation exemptions. Answers are expected by early June.
NYPA found that small bits of property that may be alienated due to canopy pillar
installation were secured through grants from the State’s Environmental Protection Act
and its Clean Water Clean Air Bond Act. That will require securing permissions from the
State DEC. Len said that Ann Gallelli is checking on funding that went into Croton
Landing and will get back to him on which source paid for which parcel.
We also found a Con Edison easement through which an underground power line will be
needed to connect the two canopied areas. Ecogy is reviewing the issue.
Bottom line: even if we had gotten an exemption through the State Legislature this year,
getting those other approvals would have blocked proceeding until we do.
However, the new NY-SUN incentive may not be enough to bankroll the project. While
there’s still some “wiggle room” in the incentive rules, even reaching $1.70/W (feasible if
part of Croton is declared a Disadvantage Community, see “Other Reports” below) would
not be enough to secure leasing revenue. An increase in a VDER benefit or in the federal
ITC would be needed to secure acceptable revenue. The new NY-SUN Operating
Manual (arriving 5/31) may better inform our financial options.
- EV/EVSE
3

Bryan Healy accepted our suggestion to use the “found money” from the increased NYSUN incentive for the firehouse rooftop project to pay for part of the Village’s 4th EV.
Depending on supply issues, that new police enforcement vehicle may arrive by late fall.
On Earth Day, C100 ran its EV show at Senasqua Park. It distributed our EV flyers.
See above for the loss of PowerReady EV charger infrastructure funding and Plan B.
On 5/17, the school district’s bus proposition passed. It authorized purchase of another
full-size (66-passenger) EV bus, a 20-passenger diesel mini-bus. and funding for EV bus
chargers.
- Stretch Code

At the 5/3 VB work session, Jon reviewed the Stretch Code and answered trustee
questions. There was no opposition. Jon drafted the resolution and Stretch law and they
were forwarded to Brian Healy on 5/11. On 5/16, the Stretch Code legislation was
introduced. A public hearing on the Code’s changes and the SEQR analysis are both
scheduled for 6/6. Several committee members will attend. If all goes as expected,
Stretch will be formally adopted on 6/21.
If so, we will receive the final $5,000 grant under the Clean Energy Community (CEC)
program. At that point, we will have collected $125,000 in CEC grants (the maximum
available under that program). We will also get 1,200 CEC points, raising our total to
6,900 points. Doing so would give us the 2nd highest total in the State (just below
Hastings’ 7,100 points). A few other CEC actions (which would yield points but no
money) could later make us the lead CEC municipality in NY. Doing so would position us
to compete in the next grant program.
Len noted that all environmental forms have been filled out, and Stretch was to be
reviewed by the Waterfront Advisory Committee in the coming week. He felt certain it
would support Stretch. The Planning Board already indicated its support.
- Other Reports
Niall looked into if/how Croton could be designated a Disadvantage Community (DC or
DAC) and an Environmental Justice (EJ) community. Based on recent analysis by the
State’s Climate Justice Working Group (CJWG), he found that part of Croton may soon
become a DC but is unlikely to become an EJ. A new map showing DCs and EJs is due
out this fall.
Being a DC would raise the potential NY-SUN incentive for Croton Landing to $1.70/W.
Also being an EJ would boost it to $1.80/W, which is still too low to secure leasing
revenue. [Ecogy proposed installing only a 200 kWp system since that would get us to
$1.90/W. But the latter would yield <$1K in annual leasing revenue.]

4

On 5/17, Dan did a walk-through at the Washington firehouse to see if instantaneous
DHW heaters could be installed to displace the existing oil-fired indirect-fired water
heater. Due to high DHW demands in the kitchen, a local storage tank would also be
needed for which there’s no room. A lot of electric service would also be needed for
instantaneous water heaters to serve the sinks in the bathrooms and garage.
He felt the best course was replacing the existing DHW heater with a HPWH once a
financial incentive is available. In the meantime, alleviating the energy waste due to the
(roughly) 100’ of uninsulated DHW piping in the ceiling could be done cheaply with foam
tube insulation. Access should be easy due to dropped ceilings. Labor cost would not be
an issue if DPW and/or firemen did the work.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
The EV and HP campaigns produced a lot of visibility and positive PR for our efforts. In
the end, no $100 incentives were needed to fulfill either campaign. As a result, Lindsay
stated that his faith in humanity is almost restored.
Due to the paperwork overload involved with many of the above issues, we need 1 or 2
new members, preferably much younger (like <40), willing to take on tasks and assist
with committee management. DOE’s Clean Energy Corps (funded under the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law) may be a possible source, but its hiring has been moving glacially.
Members were asked for ideas to find new people.
Bernie will forward a contact for a senior intern to help us with small tasks.
- New Business / Other Issues
Joel stated that the ~300-page report from the State’s Climate Action Council was out for
comments. Lindsay indicated that reviewing it and producing a short memo on its
relevance to us would be a nice task for a new committee member, or senior intern.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, June 26 at 10:30 AM via zoom.

5

