A Work Session of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY was held on
Monday, January 30, 2023, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson

Village Manager Healy
Village Attorney Whitehead
Assistant to the Village Manager
Emily Mancini

Trustee Gallelli was absent.
On motion of TRUSTEE Simon, seconded by TRUSTEE Nicholson, the Village Board convened
an Executive Session to discuss the terms and conditions of the employment of a particular person
at 6:59 P.M.
On motion of TRUSTEE Simon, seconded by TRUSTEE Nicholson, the Executive Session was
adjourned at 7:45 P.M.
Also discussed at this work session was the assigned fund balance proposal for the sale proceeds of
the Katz Property, continued discussion on lowering the Village-wide speed limit from 30 to 25
MPH, discussion on the new state law authorizing local governments to provide a real property tax
exemption to volunteer firefighters and ambulance workers, and discussion on the New York State
Green Purchasing Communities (GPC) program. Village Attorney Whitehead provided an update
on statewide marijuana regulations.
Mayor Pugh appointed Geoffrey Haynes as the Village’s representative to the Community
Development Advisory Group (CDAG) for Westchester County.
Mayor Pugh recommended the appointment of James Czuy to the vacant position on the
Conservation Advisory Council for a term expiring in December 2024. On the motion TRUSTEE
Horowitz, seconded by TRUSTEE Simon, the appointment was approved, 4-0 in favor.
On motion of TRUSTEE Simon, seconded by TRUSTEE Nicholson, the Village Board convened
an Executive Session to discuss the terms and conditions of the employment of a particular person
at 9:02 P.M.
On motion of TRUSTEE Simon, seconded by TRUSTEE Nicholson, the Executive Session was
adjourned at 10:15 P.M.
Respectfully Summitted,
Emily Mancini, Assistant to the Village Manager

