Minutes of Water Control Commission
Wednesday, December 7, 2022
PRESENT: Mr. Stuart Greenbaum, Chair
Mr. Mark Goldfarb
Mr. Leo Wiegman
Mr. William Pfrang
Mr. Rich Wetherbee
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Dan O’Connor, Village Engineer
Mr. Len Simon, Village Trustee Liaison
Ms. Ann Gallelli, Village Trustee Liaison
Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney
1. Call to Order:
Chairman Greenbaum called the Water Control Commission meeting to order at 4:47 p.m.

2.

New Business

a) Hudson National Golf Club—40 Arrowcrest Drive –Wetlands Permit Application for site
improvements including refurbishing and repairing the existing golf course irrigation system and
bunker repairs of which will occur in the 120 ft. wetland/watercourse buffer.

PRESENT:

Brett Scales, Golf Course Superintendent
Alan Milton, Hudson National Golf Club Board Representative

Mr. Scales introduced himself and stated he was the Hudson National Golf Club’s Course Superintendent.
Mr. Scales shared with the Water Control Commission (WCC) that Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC)
was built 28 years ago and that the facility and structure over time has a life expectancy. Mr. Scales
elaborated that as described on the informational sheet provided to the WCC, the life expectancy of the
greens are approximately 13 to 30 years, irrigation systems are 10 to 30 years, and bunkers are 7 to 8
years. Mr. Scales stated that after 27 years some of the golf course’s systems are beginning to fail and the
Board that governs the course wanted to take the opportunity to refurbish the golf course and restore it
back to its original conditions. The applicant stated that there will be no changes to the infrastructure of
the golf course except for replacing what already exists. Mr. Milton, Hudson National Golf Club Board
Representative, stated that the sheets and drawings provided to the Board were the plans that show the
overlay of the whole facility and that they show the wetland areas as well as the wetland buffer areas. Mr.
Milton noted there would be no change from the original plan approval from 1995 and there will be no
changes to the infrastructures that would impact the wetland buffer areas. Mr. Milton stated that in any
area where the irrigation system crosses the wetland area, the system will be secured to a bridge that
already exists. Mr. Milton then referenced the 2nd sheet (plan) which he described as showing a “blow
up” of the wetland areas that show the new irrigation system, the bunkers and the current green locations
and the 3rd sheet shows the details of sediment control plan including hay bales and silt fence as well
irrigation detail and bunker detail. Mr. Milton stated that when the new irrigation system is installed it
will cover less square footage than the current system. Mr. Milton further explained that the 4th sheet is a
legend for all the symbols that are used on the plans; and the 5th is another overview of the golf course
highlighting all the wetland areas and the wetland buffer. Mr. Milton stated that all of the original water
quality basins and water retention basins and dams will be used as they were in the original approval
(1998) and there will be no changes made to those areas. Mr. Milton shared that they continue to function
1

at 100% as designed. Mr. Scales added that when the bunkers are reconstructed, they will be
immediately re-sodded, there will also be hay bales, silt fence and sediment control logs as they are
needed. Mr. Scales shared that when the greens are replaced they will be seeded and a seed blanket will
be placed on top of the greens until they reach a point where they can be removed. He added that all
other areas besides the greens will be sodded to prevent any kind of sediment erosion.
Chairman Greenbaum asked the WCC if they had questions for the applicant. The Board asked if the new
system that is replacing the old system has the potential to lower the total amount of water needed to
irrigate the course and if it will lower the amount of pesticide and fungicides used. Mr. Scales confirmed,
stating that the 27-year-old system has its flaws, leaks, and imperfections and that the new system will be
more efficient. Mr. Scales stated that anecdotally, the newly developed grasses by Rutgers University
claim to use less fungicides, pesticides, and water.
Mr. Milton added that some of the hybrid seeds (grasses) that are developed at Cornell, Rutgers, and at
other Universities are more heat resistant and therefore will use less water. Mr. Milton noted that recent
climate changes have been stressing a lot of the greens in the area and that some golf courses have failed
in the last 10 years due to unusual summer heat and the idea is that the new grasses to be planted are
drought resistant which will require less use of water, pesticides, and fungicides.
The WCC then asked the applicant what their planned time frame was for the project. Mr. Scales stated
that the irrigation work is planned to start in April 2023 where they will work on the perimeter of the
course. On July 5, 2023 they plan to close the course for construction crews to work on the bunkers and
greens. Mr. Scales stated that the goal is for the work to be completed by November/December 2023. Mr.
Wiegman asked if the work will be staged from one hole to the next. Mr. Scales stated it would be and
that the work will be done in 3 stages starting with the southernmost portion of the course as stage 1, the
middle section will be stage 2, and the northern portion will be stage 3.
The Board clarified that a lot of the work to be done involves trenching, replacing pipe, and then
covering. When asked how long a trench will remain open as they work along the system, Mr. Scales
stated that with the irrigation component and the trenching that 90% of what is opened in one day will be
closed the same day and that the greens and the bunker repairs may stretch over a day or two. The Board
noted that the work timeframe being described will be a quick turn-around. Mr. Scales again summarized
that the work to be performed at the golf club is similar to that of updating a home, that HNGC needs to
be updated and restored to full, efficient function.
The applicants were then asked about the excavation process. The Board inquired if they will be
stockpiling materials and asked that they describe how they will be managing those stockpiles. Mr. Scales
stated that they will have an approximate 20,000 square foot stockpile area and they will have to bed the
pipe with clean fill material and stated they also will be pulling out material. Mr. Scales added that the
area will be silt fenced and added that there will be a pad of fresh concrete and that they will try to
manage the material as much as possible onsite but, if necessary, some will be hauled off. The Board
then asked a question specific to the plan (sheet 204, area W12C). The Board asked that the applicant to
explain what will happen in the area around the left of the 11th tee where it looks like a footbridge crosses
the swale.
Mr. Scales stated that the main line will cross on the bridge above the wetland and as it gets to the other
side of the brook it will be out of the wetland area. Mr. Scales further noted that while it is in the buffer
zone, it is not in the wetland. The Board pointed out that it appeared a different detail was used for some
of the other wetlands where the new system runs along a bridge and wanted to ensure that there would not
be a disturbance within the wetland’s boundary itself and that the excavation will be terminated before
getting into the wetland buffer. Mr. Scales confirmed that there would be no disturbance in the wetland
boundary and that it should have been better clarified on the plans. The Board then asked the applicant
which of the various proposed methods of protection/sediment provided on page 3 will be used. Mr.
2

Scales responded that the method selected will be on a case-by-case basis and that they can’t determine
exactly what the best method will be until they are in the field. Mr. Scales shared that the material in the
storage area will be used to backfill trenches and that the spoils will be trucked outside. Furthermore, the
material being removed is classified as clean fill. It was also noted that the irrigation heads will be pulled
out and the heads capped so there will be no disturbance.
Chairman Greenbaum asked if there were further comments or questions from the Board and if not, he
would like to open the meeting to the public. But before doing so Chairman Greenbaum stated he had a
letter from resident, Paula Chabrowe of 26 Mount Green Road who was unable to attend the meeting inperson but was viewing the proceedings via live stream. He shared that Ms. Chabrowe had previously
submitted the letter and questions regarding the application. Mr. Greenbaum then proceeded to read Ms.
Chabrowe’s correspondence and asked that the applicant provide responses.
Chairperson Greenbaum read
Question #1: “Why is The Village calling this application by HN an Unlisted Action instead of a Type 1
action when SEQRA 617.4 (6)(i) states “…a project or action that involves the physical alteration of 10
acres.”
Village Attorney, Linda Whitehead responded that the applicant clarified that it is actually 9.5 acres
(under 10 acres). Ms. Whitehead added that upon further review it was determined that this is a Type II
action under SEQRA, therefore it does not require any review under SEQRA adding that it falls into the
items on the type II list “maintenance and repair involving no substantial changes in an existing structure
of facility and also replacement, rehabilitation, or reconstruction of a structure or facility in kind on the
same site.” Ms. White reiterated that based on the items listed in the SEQRA regulation and upon
further review it was determined to be a Type II action.
Question #2: “Which brings me to my second question: what is the exact scope, sequence, and time-line
of the Applicant’s project?
a)
where are the Applicant’s detailed plans and charts for the same?”
Chairman Greenbaum stated that the applicant and Board had previously addressed this concern but asked
Mr. Scales to re-state the answer for Ms. Chabrowe. Mr. Scales shared that they will be breaking the
project in 3 phases starting with the southernmost part of the course, moving to the middle section and
then ending with the northmost area of the course. Mr. Scales stated that each phase of the irrigation
system, greens, and bunkers will be replaced.
Question #3: “Seeding and sodding of the newest and best turf grass hybrids will significantly reduce
the use of fertilizers, pesticides, and water. Where is Mr. Scales' map detailing the placement of this
new seeding and sodding? Where are Mr. Scales plans and charts detailing reduced use of fertilizers
and pesticides?”
Mr. Scales stated that on the plans, it is shown as greens, tees, and irrigation and those are all the areas
they will be seeding. Mr. Scales share that while he hasn’t seen the research, the reported trials show that
the seed to be planted that was developed by Dr. Richard Hurley, show that significantly less fertilizer
and pesticides will need to be used. Mr. Scales stated again that he has not seen the research and that this
anecdotal information. Mr. Allen stated that the concept is rather straightforward in that when plants are
less stressed, they will require less water and less maintenance adding that the new grasses were
hybridized and grown in conditions of stress and drought resistance therefore they will require less
fertilizer, water and pesticides.

3

Mr. Greenbaum added that there is an approved Environmental Management Plan that limits the

amount of fertilizer and pesticides that are applied. There is routine testing and reporting
conducted, and the reports indicated that the golf course is well managed. If the proposed
improvements reduce the use of fertilizers, pesticides, and water that would be an added benefit.
Plans and charts for the reduced use of fertilizers and pesticides are not required as these are
applied in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan which is in place.
Q3(b): “Mr. Scales further states, ‘Drainage pipes being replaced will continue to use all existing water
quality basins.’”
Chairman Greenbaum responded. He stated that the existing water quality basins were designed to

retain and treat stormwater, any replacement drainage pipes must go to the same locations, i.e.,
water quality basins.
Chairman Greenbaum continued stating that it was fair and important to read the next part of Ms.
Chabrowe’s letter. Chairman Greenbaum then read from her statement: “The Village Trustees have been
repeatedly notified of the flooding and water damage inflicted upon residential properties adjacent to HN
because of ineffective, clogged, overgrown, and poorly maintained and situated water quality basins. Why
hasn’t The Village required HN to remedy the existing flood situation, and to compensate the owners of
the properties impacted over the years before allowing HN to begin this additional work?”
Mr. O’Connor stated that he believes this question is focused more on Prickly Pear Hill Road and that
HNGC recently made some repairs to the drainage on Prickly Pear Hill Rd as well as made some
improvements in the swale. Mr. O’Connor added that there were also improvements made at the
maintenance yard on Prickly Pear Hill Road and that there is a water quality basin at top of the road that
was placed there earlier this year when the repairs and improvements were made. Mr. O’Connor stated
he would not comment on compensation to neighbors’ properties that were impacted. Mr. O’Connor
concluded that he, again believes this question was in reference to the road of which was not included in
the application that is before the Board.
Chairman Greenbaum shared that Ms. Chabrowe’s 4th question was in regards to stormwater discharge
flowing onto and damaging adjacent properties but noted that the applicant and Board have already
commented on such concerns and that there are no new impervious surfaces or grading changes that

will produce additional stormwater runoff.
Chairman Greenbaum read the next submitted question:
Question #5: “Which Village Committee and/or Board is going to set up a schedule of regular and
consistent inspections and monitoring of the Applicant’s work?”
Mr. O’Connor stated that the Village building department will be at up at the site to look at mitigation
measures and that HNGC will have to submit a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and the
golf club will have a privately hired consultant routinely touring the course and work to monitor the
erosion prevention measures.
Question #6: What remediation fund has the Village required the Applicant to place in escrow?
Chairman Greenbaum stated that a remediation fund is not required but that a performance bond can be
required to ensure compliance with the Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan.
Chairman Greenbaum then stated that concluded Ms. Chabrowe’s correspondence and opened the
meeting to other members of the public for comment on the application.
4

Steve Varvaro of 1263 Albany Post Road came forward to be heard.
Mr. Varvaro introduced himself and shared that he has stood before various boards in regards to Hudson
National Golf Club. Mr. Varvaro stated that had prepared a written statement to the WCC and copies of
the statement were provided to all Board members as well. Mr. Varvaro expressed that he was curious
how something that takes place on 260 acres can be 9.6 acres. Ms. Whitehead responded to Mr. Varvaro’s
concern stating that HNGC will not be disturbing the entire golf course.
Mr. Varvaro then proceeded to read his written statement to the WCC which is attached to these meeting
minutes.
Mr. Varvaro paused during the reading of his written statement to express his understanding of the
situation and ask that if the special permit is still in place and if so, why the application is not before the
Village Planning Board or if the special permit had been removed?
Ms. Whitehead stated that this application does not require Planning Board approval because it is strictly
a wetland permit. Mr. Varvaro asked for confirmation that the special permit on the property is still in
place. Ms. Whitehead stated that there has been no activity on that application for close to a year at this
point. Ms. Whitehead added that the work to be done is taking place on a completely separate portion of
the property and is unrelated. Mr. Varvaro re-read a portion of his statement that outlined the role of the
Planning Board as the approving authority for any application that has to do with a site plan, minor site
plan, subdivision, or special application and noted that Hudson National Golf Club is one property. Mr.
Varvaro then continued to read his statement which outlined the scope of work to be conducted on the
course. Mr. Varvaro expressed strong concern that all of this activity will demand the use of heavy
machinery of which will be disruptive to more than 10 acres of property which in his opinion does not
align with the applicant's statement of it being under 9.5 acres of disruption. Mr. Varvaro then read/posed
12 questions to the Board (from his written statement) relevant to Hudson Nationals’ Wetland application.
After Mr. Varvaro concluded, Chairperson Greenbaum thanked Mr. Varvaro for his comment and asked
if anyone else from the public wanted to be heard on the application.
There being no further comment, Chairman Greenbaum closed the public hearing and asked the applicant
if they would like to respond to any of Mr. Varvaro’s comments and/or questions.
Mr. Milton provided responses and began by stating that some of what Mr. Varvaro is speaking to is
about the solar project which is not a Hudson National Golf Club project therefore is not relevant.
However, Mr. Milton wanted to use the opportunity to speak to some of the engineering and work done
for the solar project that is relevant to the soil concerns Mr. Varvaro raised. Mr. Milton shared that if
anyone is interested in finding out more information, can look at a detailed report that was prepared by
the private engineering consulting firm, Chazen that they addressed many of the concerns raised by Mr.
Varvaro. Ms. Whitehead interjected and shared with Mr. Milton that this information is irrelevant as it
does not have to do with the application that is currently before the WCC. Mr. Milton said he understood
and continued to state that no trees will be cut down in the refurbishing of the course’s systems. Mr.
Milton stated that his project is not being used for anything other than the proposed work on the
application.
Chairman Greenbaum and Ms. Whitehead refocused the public and applicant to address only concerns
and aspects related directly to the current application that is before the Water Control Commission.
Mr. Milton concluded by stating that it can be assured that the construction related to the refurbishing of
the golf course will not be located anywhere near the location of the solar matrix and that the soil stability
is not a question and if anything, the soil is rocky which was discovered in the 1990’s when blasting was
5

done for the construction of the course and there have never been concerns about the soil stability on the
property. Mr. Milton then shared that as far as dredging material, there will be no dredging done and
there is no concern with any dredge filler that would interfere with wetland areas.
Mr. Scales added that in terms of the acreage of disruption there is 120,000 sq ft but made a correction
that the green is actually less and that the area is 112,000 sq ft of actual green surface if you add a little bit
of a buffer it will be 2.7 acres and the bunkers are less than 80K (1.8 Acres) and the irrigation system/the
trenches 90% will be 12” inches wide and 18”x24” deep which comes out to 3 acres of disturbance and
they all add up to 7.5 acres and stated that they used 9.5 in knowing that there is going to be a little bit of
movement with the equipment and built in a little bit of a buffer. is why it is less than 10 acres of
disturbance.
Mr. Varvaro asked the question that if the special permit is still in place and has not been withdrawn, why
the application is not before the Planning Board. Ms. Whitehead responded stating that they will look
into the matter.
Mr. O’Connor, Village Engineer asked the applicant for confirmation that they will be submitting the
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) before the next meeting and possibly updating the
shading on the plans for that one area. Mr. O’Connor suggested that it would be helpful to have more
information on the seed to be used.
It was concluded that the application would remain open and the Water Control Commission will
reconvene next month to make a decision on the application.
3.

Approval of Minutes
The Water Control Commission approved the minutes of the May 18, 2022 meeting,

4. Adjournment
There being no further business before the Water Control Commission, the meeting was duly adjourned
at 5:37 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted By,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Water Control Commission

6

