Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Monday, January 23, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead

Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

The following official was absent:
Trustee Gallelli
CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
1. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 22233148 through 22233367. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$120,570.40
20,467.66
1,063.93
98,490.09

2. PRESENTATON to former Assemblywoman Sandra R. Galef in recognition
of her service to the residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
To view the presentation, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/824
3. CONSISTENCY REVIEW
LWRP Consistency Review and EAF Part II Review for a
Telecommunications Special Permit application from DISH Wireless, LLC
to collocate new transmission equipment on the existing wireless tower at
26 Veterans Plaza and equipment at the base of the tower within the
existing base station.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 2

To view the memo from the Waterfront Advisory Committee you may log
onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202301/3d02cbe6350ef9d0ddd0d219df27af89377bacee.pdf
SHORT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM PART 2 – IMPACT ASSESSMENT
No, or
small
impact
may
occur
1.

Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics that caused the
establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing level of traffic or
affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walkway?

√

6.

√

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to incorporate
reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy opportunities?

√

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?

√

b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic, archaeological,
architectural or aesthetic resources?

√

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources (e.g., wetlands,
waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or human health?

√

LWRP Consistency Review
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

WAC RESPONSE

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

2

VILLAGE BOARD

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 3

1

1A

1B

1C

1D

1E
2
2A

3
4
5

Restore, revitalize, and redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational, and other compatible uses
Existing planning and zoning documents
should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within
the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned
land at the Metro North Train Station,
including Village garage and bay area.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro North Train
Station, while facilitating public access to
bay area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the
municipality to encourage the mutual
cooperation and exchange of information
between governmental agencies involved
in clean-up of the Croton landfill and
Metro-North lagoon in order to develop
commercial use of resources found in the
coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant
site at the intersection of Route 9A and
Municipal Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to coastal
waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power
boats on the Hudson River and Croton
River and Bay by further enforcing the
parameters that regulate boat traffic such a
speed, turbidity, safety, and mooring and
sludge disposal. Such controls will further
increase the compatibility of power boat
use with other forms of recreation use
within the coastal zone area.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of major ports is not
applicable to Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the
strengthening of small harbors is not
applicable to Croton.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate, except when such development
has special functional requirements or

No

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

No
No
No

3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 4

5A

5B

5C

6
6A

7

7A

7B

7C

other characteristics which necessitate its
location in other coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
The extension of water and sewer
distribution lines beyond areas currently
served should be undertaken cautiously
and with prudent regard for Village water
resources and the preservation of
environmental values in undeveloped
areas.
Limit proposed development within those
portions of the coastal zone boundary
area, where traffic impacts such as site
distance and carrying capacity of the
roadways are restricted, particularly along
Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route
129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall be protected and improved for
conservation, economic, aesthetic,
recreational, and other public uses and
values. Its resources shall be protected
from the threat of pollution, misuse, and
mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed
to drain in, or on land within, the area of
influence in the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 5

7D

7E

7F

7G
8

9

9A

water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be permitted within the
area of influence of the habitat unless best
available technology is used to prevent
adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitats and shore lands shall be included
in any programs for cleanup of any
adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively channeled so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity shall be timed so that spawning of
anadromous fish species and shellfish will
not be adversely affected.
Such activities must not cause degradation
of water quality or impact identified
significant fish and wildlife habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub lethal or lethal
effect on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and wildlife
resources in coastal areas by increasing
access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts
shall be made in a manner which ensures
the protection of renewable fish and
wildlife resources and considers other
activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Villageowned land adjacent to the Metro-North
parking lot, at Croton Point Park and at
Senasqua Park, along the Croton River,
and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts
should be made to encourage recreational
use of the fish and wildlife resources found
in these areas by increasing the
opportunities for public access and

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 6

9B

10

11

11A

12

12A

13

enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment
of the wildlife in the designated significant
fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon
Society Sanctuaries, on other public or
private lands within the Village, where
wildlife habitats are located. Encourage
the recreational use of areas where such
resources are found, as well as the
protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new or improvement of
existing on shore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
state's seafood products, maintaining
adequate stocks, and expanding
aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall be
made in a manner which ensures the
protection of renewable fish and wildlife
resources and considers other activities
dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures
shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent damage
to the environment, and promote the public
welfare by guiding, regulating, and
controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any development or
other activity which disturbs or breaks the
topsoil or results in earth movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs.
Primary dunes will be protected from all
encroachments that could impair their
natural protective capacity
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier to
Croton Bay from activities or development
that would increase erosion of or flooding
of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 7

13A

14

15

16

16A

17

17A

erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at least
thirty years as demonstrated in design and
construction standards and/or assured
maintenance or replacement programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be
maintained in good condition and private
landowners should be required to restore
and maintain erosion control mechanisms
along their river frontage which are
designed for long term stability.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site of
such activities or development, or at other
locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which supply
beach materials to land adjacent to such
waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase in
erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
able to function, or existing development;
and only where the public benefits
outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for
increasing erosion and adverse effects on
natural protective features
Public funds shall be appropriated for the
yearly maintenance of Senasqua Park until
such time that is determined that
expenditure of funds outweighs the cost of
acquiring, constructing, and maintaining a
similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural
measures to minimize damage to natural
resources and property from flooding and
erosion. Such measures shall include: (i)
the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the
installation of sand fencing and draining;
(iii) the reshaping of bluffs; and (iv) the
flood-proofing of buildings or their
elevation above the base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes rising from areas

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 8

18

19

19A

19B

19C

19D

19E

20

inland shall be of a non-structural nature,
wherever possible, in consideration of the
visual impact of structural measures. The
retention or planting of vegetative covers
will be preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the state
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to the
safeguards which the state has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public water-related
recreation resources and facilities so that
these resources and facilities may be fully
utilized in accordance with reasonably
anticipated public recreation needs and
the protection of historic and natural
resources. In providing such access,
priority will be given to public beaches,
boating facilities, fishing areas and
waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space
along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in the
form of a trail or walkway system. Such
systems should be provided along
undeveloped and underutilized land as
well as along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that
have specific value for their physical and
visual access to the Hudson River or
Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public
transportation, when feasible, to areas
within the coastal zone area where water
dependent and water enhanced recreation
activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and Bay
at the Village-owned land south of the
Village parking lots at the Croton-Harmon
Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access to
the Croton River waterfront, in its current
undeveloped condition as a pedestrian
walkway.
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. Such
lands shall be retained in public
ownership.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 9

21

21A

22

23

24

25

25A

Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged, facilitated,
and will be given priority over non-water
related uses along the coast, provided it is
consistent with the preservation and
enhancement of other coastal resources
and takes into account demand for such
facilities. In facilitating such activities,
priority shall be given to areas where
access to the recreation opportunities of
the coast can be provided by new or
existing public transportation services and
to those areas where the use of the shore
is severely restricted by existing
development.
Boating activities should be encouraged
provided that they do not restrict other
recreational opportunities and are
undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water-dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the
shore will provide for water-related
recreation, as a multiple use, whenever
such recreational use is appropriate in light
reasonably anticipated demand for such
activities and the primary purpose of the
development
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, in areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of
statewide significance as identified on the
coastal area map. Impairment shall
include: (i) the irreversible modification of
geologic forms, the destruction or removal
of vegetation, the destruction, or removal
of structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting or scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an identified
resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified as being of statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Protect local scenic resources by
preventing: (i) the irreversible

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 10

25B
25C

25D

26

27

28

28A

29

modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or
wetlands, the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic forms,
vegetation or structures are significant to
the scenic quality of an identified
resources; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an identified
resource.
Secure the designation of the panoramic
views from Croton Point as a scenic area
of statewide significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and
129 within the Croton boundaries as a
scenic road. Ensure developments on or
adjacent to Route 9 do not impair scenic
resources or views of or from the Hudson
and Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified view-sheds
which provide visual access to the Hudson
River, including but not limited to the views
of the Hudson River from the western
shoreline of the Village, and from Prickly
Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River
Landing. In addition, protect view-sheds to
and of the Croton River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the
protection of agricultural lands is not
applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
damage significant fish and wildlife and
their habitats, increase shoreline erosion
or flooding, or interfere with the production
of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must consider
short and long-term impacts on the Croton
River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of energy resources is not
applicable to Croton.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 11

30

30A

30B

31

31A

32

33

33A

33B

34

Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited to, toxic and hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water quality
standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose any
materials in coastal waters until such
materials have been tested by the state for
conformance with water quality standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials shall
be monitored by the state to assure there
will be no discharge or leaching of
materials into coastal waters.
State coastal area policies and purposes
of approved local waterfront revitalization
programs will be considered while
reviewing coastal water classifications and
while modifying water quality standards;
however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be
recognized as being a development
constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC
should continually monitor water quality in
the Hudson River and Croton Bay which
have already been overburdened with
pollutants. Recommendations for
mitigation and upgrading water quality
classifications cannot be determined
without continual monitoring and testing of
the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax base
of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used
to ensure the control of storm water runoff
and combined sewer overflows draining
into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain
storm water runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing system
or to improve existing storm water runoff
systems to that runoff from such
developments does not adversely impact
coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water
discharge to control flow of pollutants from
street and parking areas, etc. directly in
the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 12

34A
35

36

37

37A

37B

38

39

39A

from vessels will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply areas.
There shall be no discharge from moored
structures or marine vessels, due to shape
of cove and lack of tidal flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in
coastal waters will be undertaken in a
manner that meets existing state dredging
permit requirements, and protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic
resources, natural protective features,
important agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at lease minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these spills
occur.
Best Management Practices will be utilized
to minimize the non-point discharge of
excess nutrients, organics and eroded
soils into coastal waters.
Standards and specifications for the
control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County's Best
Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops, and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas
will be conducted in such a manner so as
to protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands, and scenic resources.
Require transporters, producers and
storers of hazardous material to inform the
public or allow public access to records
involving the transport, storage, treatment,
and disposal of hazardous materials. This
is of particular concern with respect to rail

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 13

39B

40

41
41A
42

43

43A

43B

44
44A

transport of such materials, storage of
identified materials on railroad property
and uses in the waterfront area involved in
the treatment, storage, and disposal of
such materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302,
Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to- Know of the 1986 Superfund
Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
planning committee and the Croton Fire
Department shall be notified if hazardous
substances exceed the established
threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to state water quality standards.
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or state air
quality standards to be violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring
station should be established within the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the state reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of the acid rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus service
to the train station, thereby decreasing
dependency on the automobile use and
reduce the generation of acid rain
precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil
fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
development of a monitoring program to
assess rail vehicle engines emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats,
and protecting against flood and pollution.

No

No

No
No
No

No

No

No

No
No

Resolution 9 of 2023
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 14

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has been notified by M&B Towers LLC that Sprint will be
terminating its lease and removing equipment from the wireless tower located at 26
Veterans Plaza due to its merger with T-Mobile, and
WHEREAS the Village has received a Telecommunications special permit application
and the associated $5,000 fee from Dish Wireless LLC to collocate new transmission
equipment on the existing wireless tower and equipment at the base of the tower
within the existing base station, and
WHEREAS pursuant to § 206-5, the operator has submitted to the Village Manager
copies of all licenses and permits required by other agencies and governments with
jurisdiction over the design, construction, location, and operation of such equipment,
and
WHEREAS on December 5, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent to
serve as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its
intent to all involved agencies, and
WHEREAS on January 9, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the proposed action, and
WHEREAS on January 9, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees referred the special
permit application and CAF to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for a
recommendation of consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP), and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a favorable recommendation
from the Planning Board and a recommendation of consistency from the Waterfront
Advisory Committee,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a public hearing to be held on Monday, February 13, 2023, at 7:00 PM in
the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
to consider the issuance of the special permit.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 15

5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Notice of Tentative Special Franchise Full Values for the 2023
Assessment Roll from the New York State Department of Taxation and
Finance.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202301/813a187577b881cc117a1c623e6be559fa04101c.pdf
b. Noticer of Tentative State Equalization Rate for the 2022 Assessment
Roll from the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202301/8c1ba58b18413686ad723a9efd0c79649f5b5c79.pdf
c. Flyer from the Elisabeth Haub School of Law announcing the opening
of a Legal Hand Call-In Center serving Westchester County.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202301/a27ad51f647bf032257a81b0d8a4f1286720beb6.pdf
d. Public Hearing Notice from the Town of Cortlandt to consider a
proposed re-zoning of the area around Annsville Circle.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202301/300c7e84b6baf6c690d893efe3d66ba032ca14b1.pdf
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - None
7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution 10 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Engineering department would like to increase the number of
approved electrical inspectors that can conduct inspections within the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, and

15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 16

WHEREAS the Village Engineering department has received a proposal from Better
Homes Electric Inspection Services, LLC of West Harrison, New York, to perform
electrical inspections within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS the Village Engineer has reviewed this proposal and recommends that
the Village Board approve this application, and
WHEREAS all electrical inspectors must be approved by the Village Board of
Trustees in accordance with Section 113-6 of the Village Code,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees approves
Better Homes Electric Inspection Services, LLC of West Harrison, New York, to
serve as an official electrical inspector for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that prior to Westchester County taking over the
licensing of plumbers and electricians each municipality was responsible for that
licensing, the County is now doing the same for electrical inspectors and asked the
Board to consider changing the Village’s law to allow County authorized electrical
inspectors to operate in the Village.
Mayor Pugh stated that this is another example of a shared service.
Trustee Simon stated that this is very logical and comparable to what we do in
other circumstances.
Village Manager Healy stated that he will draft a local law for the Board’s
consideration.
Resolution 11 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS pursuant to General Municipal Law § 39, local governments in the State
of New York, including villages, are required to adopt a comprehensive written
investment policy, and

16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 17

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees most recently reviewed and adopted an
Investment Policy for the Village at the annual reorganizational meeting on
December 5, 2022, and
WHEREAS Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker has requested that the Investment Policy
be modified to clarify and update language in Section X. of the Investment Policy,
Permitted Investments,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby approves the
attached Investment Policy for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
To view the updated Investment Policy, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202301/e4648132f8332ee0ad37225431f2ff3483db9722.pdf
Resolution 12 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has a Street Vendor License Policy that is
intended to allow vendors the opportunity to have a presence in the Upper Village
and Harmon areas, as well as the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, and
WHEREAS under the current policy, licensed vendors are permitted in Section B of
the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, and
WHEREAS Section B of the parking lot is currently closed due to construction, and
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend the Street Vendor License Policy to
permit licensed vendors in Section I of the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
amended Street Vendor License Policy.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Nicholson noted that the policy indicates that it is for Sundays during the
months of July and August, but then it states, “for the rest of year” and asked that
this be clarified. Trustee Nicholson also asked if this is the same policy that we use
17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 18

for Summerfest because the policy indicates a maximum of eight vendors and
believes that during Summerfest there are more than eight and did the Board also
agree that it would only be on Sundays.
Village Manager Healy explained that the Village had to distinguish between a
Solicitor/Peddler from a Street Vendor because Solicitors/Peddlers are only allowed
to stay in one spot for up to ten minutes, the Board subsequently developed a
Street Vendor Policy that would allow licensed vendors to set up and stay in one
location for the day and the Board agreed, at that time, that it would only be on
Sundays. Village Manager Healy stated that this policy does not apply to Village run
events like Summerfest and stated that we can change the language to clarify that
the shorter hours for the street vendor permits are for September through May.
Resolution 13 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson annually contracts with a contractor to
assist the Department of Public Works with the cleaning of Village-owned buildings
and facilities, and
WHEREAS on December 16, 2022, the Village advertised an Invitation to Bid for
office and building cleaning services and
WHEREAS on January 12, 2023, the Village received and opened five bids, and
WHEREAS the low bidder for office and building cleaning services was Superior
Building Maintenance of Fishkill, New York, in the amount of $3,470.00 per month,
and
WHEREAS after reviewing the bids, Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works,
recommends awarding the bid to Superior Building Maintenance,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
award Bid No. 4-2022 for office and building cleaning services to Superior Building
Maintenance of Fishkill, New York, for the period beginning February 1, 2023,
through January 31, 2024, in the amount of $3,470.00 per month.
Resolution 14 of 2023
18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 19

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003, and
WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village fees through Board
Resolutions, and
WHEREAS the Village Department of Public Works provides 96-gallon trash cans to
businesses for a fee upon request, and
WHEREAS the material and shipping costs for the 96-gallon trash cans have
increased substantially in the past year,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the following amendment to the Master Fee Schedule:
Department of Public Works

96-Gallon Garbage Can

§135-7

Options: Red, Blue or Green

$110.00

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to make the following budget amendment to the 2022-2023 General
Fund Budget to account for previous sales of the 96-gallon trash cans.
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A8160.2655 – Refuse – Minor Sales

$420.42

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A8160.4200 – Refuse - Supplies

$420.42

AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $3,261.52 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to
the following account to allow the Department of Public Works to purchase
additional cans:
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 20

A8160.4200 – Refuse – Supplies: $3,261.52
Resolution 15 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson utilizes meters for all customers to
measure the amount of water being used at each location; and
WHEREAS the existing meters at the Metro-North station have reached the end of
their functional life; and
WHEREAS the Village has received a quote for three new meters from RIO Supply
Inc. of Sicklerville, New Jersey, for a total cost of $19,791; and
WHEREAS as this expense was unforeseen, funding for this expense was not
included in the 2022-2023 Water Fund budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
transfer $19,791 from Water Fund Contingency Account F1990.4000 to the
following account:
F8320.2000 – Supply - Equipment $19,791
Resolution 16 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was awarded a Fiscal Year 2021
Assistance to Firefighters Grant in the amount of $37,928.57, and
WHEREAS the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will reimburse the
Village for the purchase of necessary equipment for the Fire Department,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make
the following amendment to the 2022-2023 General Fund budget:
GENERAL REVENUE
20

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 21

Increase
A3410.4389 – Fire – Federal Grant

$37,928.57

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A3410.2000 – Fire - Equipment

$37,928.57

8.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - None

9.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Meeting held on
January 9, 2023, was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote.

10. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson advised that she attended the Recreation Advisory
Committee meeting wherein they discussed summer program rates and
finding ways to encourage teens to work for the Village during the
summer, the Police Advisory Council is working very hard on finalizing
their new survey, attended the swearing in of Assemblywoman Dana
Levenberg, and acknowledged students from the Croton Harmon High
School Environmental Club, Sofia Hardi, Charlotte Green, Hanna Ranis,
and Andora Dyer-Ramberg on their very passionate keynote address on
the environment, as liaison to the Library she reached out to the Library
Director who reiterated that the Library is there to support the Village
during the 125 Anniversary celebrations.
Trustee Simon stated that on January 11th he, along with Mayor Pugh,
participated in a Press Conference with County Executive Latimer,
Senator Harckham, and Assemblywoman Levenberg regarding the
upcoming February 4th Eagle Fest, attended the Zoning Board meeting
on January 11th, on January 12th the Waterfront Advisory Committee
met where they discussed the DISH Wireless application, on January 12th
he attended the Westchester Municipals Officials Association meeting
where the Executive Director of the Cannabis Board, Tremaine Wright,
gave an accounting of what the Board has done so far, attended the
21

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 22

January 18th Planning Board meeting, the Rotary is working with our Bird
Commissioner and the Audubon Society to find appropriate locations for
the bird houses, met with the Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee and they
are pleased to know that the Board is moving forward on the
traffic/engineering study on the twenty-five mile per hour speed limit,
they also discussed a possible 4th of July Bicycle Parade, and attended
Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg’s inauguration.
Trustee Horowitz advised that this past Saturday the Library held a
program called Traditions of Chinese Acrobats, this coming Sunday
another Lunar New Year event will take place in the Community Room,
the Croton Library will kick off a program on February 11th called “Five
Towns One Book”, five Westchester public libraries will participate in a
series of free events featuring a discussion with Soyica Diggs Colbert’s
Radical Vision, a Biography of Lorraine Hansberry, on Saturday she
visited Ossining’s Repair Café at the Ossining Community Center, it is a
great way to reduce waste by having items repaired for free and would
like to see something like this in Croton.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
following Mayoral appointments. Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote.
Name
Bob Elliott
Robert Luntz
Christine Wagner
Stuart Greenbaum
John Karpoff
Jari Rouas
Tatyana Polyak
Stephen Gosnell
John Ealer
Michael Balter
Peter Sedlmair
Debi Braddick
Emily Boglioli

Boards, Committees, Councils, Commissions
Special Task Force to advise the Village on the Request for
Proposals for Lot A
Planning Board, Chair (term expiring 2027)
Zoning Board of Appeals, Chair (term expiring 2027)
Water Control Commission (term expiring 2027)
Advisory Board on the Visual Environment (term expiring 2025)
Advisory Board on the Visual Environment (term expiring 2025)
Advisory Board on the Visual Environment (term expiring 2025)
Conservation Advisory Council (term expiring 2024)
Conservation Advisory Council (term expiring 2024)
Conservation Advisory Council (term expiring 2025)
Recreation Advisory Committee (term expiring 2025)
Recreation Advisory Committee (term expiring 2025)
Recreation Advisory Committee (term expiring 2025)
22

Village Trustees Board Meeting
January 23, 2023
Page 23

Steven Krisky
Luisa Godoy
Nancy Libow
Maria Modica Snow
Shannon Varekamp
Carolyn Whiting

Planning Board Representative to the Waterfront Advisory
Committee (term expiring 2023)
Diversity and Inclusion Committee (term expiring 2023)
Diversity and Inclusion Committee (term expiring 2023)
Diversity and Inclusion Committee (term expiring 2023)
Diversity and Inclusion Committee (term expiring 2023)
Police Advisory Committee (term expiring 2025)

Village Manager Healy advised that Croton Energy Group has completed
the installation of solar panels at Washington Engine and we expect to
see some impact on our energy bills, Recreation programs are open and
referred everyone to the Recreation Department’s website for more
information.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:10pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

23

