Minutes of Water Control Commission
Thursday, February 2, 2023

PRESENT: Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Leo Wiegman
Mr. William Pfrang
Mr. Rich Wetherbee
ABSENT: Mark Goldfarb
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Dan O’Connor, Village Engineer
Mr. Len Simon, Village Trustee Liaison

1. Call to Order:
Chairman Greenbaum called the Water Control Commission meeting to order at _7:04

2. Old Business
a) Hudson National Golf Club—40 Arrowcrest Drive –Wetlands Permit Application for
site improvements including the replacement of the existing golf course replacement of
irrigation system, bunker repairs, and greens repairs of which will occur in the 120 ft.
wetland/watercourse buffer.

PRESENT: Brett Scales, HNGC Superintendent
Alan Milton, HNGC, HNGC Member
Theron Harvey HNGC Director of Operations
Phil Moyles, HNGC President of Board of Directors
Ralph Mastromonaco, Engineer
Julian Wise, HNGC Chief Legal Officer
Chairman Greenbaum called the representatives of Hudson National Golf Club forward and asked the
applicants to give a brief presentation on the application carried over from the December 7, 2022 meeting
for those who were unable to attend that meeting.
Mr. Milton began by introducing himself stating that he has been a resident of the village for 30+ years
and is a member of the Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC). Mr. Milton stated they will be brief and
respectfully focus on the new materials submitted to the Commission for review. Mr. Milton added that
they will answer any questions from the Board and the public but will not deal with any of the
unsupported allegations against the club that had been submitted in writing. Mr. Milton reiterated they
1

are happy to address any issues from the public that may arise and added that HNGC also hopes to rely on
the technical expertise of the Village staff and Board as well as on the facts of the application that is
before the WCC. Mr. Milton shared that he felt it wasn’t clear at the previous WCC meeting that in the
early 1990s the entire golf course development underwent a substantial review on a federal, state, and
local level and at that time it went before the Village Board of Trustees, the Planning Board and Water
Control Commission, the United States Fish & Wildlife Service, Corps of Engineers, and then the
Department of Environmental Conservation completed a full Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). Mr.
Milton stated the DEC first drafted the EIS which was followed by extensive public comment before a
final EIS was provided and added that there were approximately 7,000-8,000 pages of documents. Mr.
Milton asked that review process done in the 1990’s be taken into consideration when examining the
current wetland permit application.
Mr. Milton then turned the presentation over to Theron Harvey, HNGC Director of Operations and Phil
Moyles, HNGC President of Board of Directors.
Mr. Harvey thanked the WCC for having them and stated he wrote a letter to the Village that
demonstrated the history of the relationship that HNGC has with the Village. Mr. Theron then provided
background of HNGC stating that the course was designed by world-renowned Golf Course Architect,
Tom Fazio and expressed his appreciation that they have been able to accomplish the status of being a
world-renowned golf course in Croton-on-Hudson that is ranked in the top 100 out of 17,000 golf
courses. Mr. Harvey stated that HNGC has a great relationship with Mr. Fazio and Tim Marzolf, Golf
Course Architect. Mr. Harvey shared with the Board that HNGC is lucky to have international members,
prominent New York figures, as well as PGA professionals that play on tour at all levels and noted that
these individuals come to Hudson National because it is a world class golf course. Mr. Harvey expressed
his gratitude that the course is located in the Village as it is a beautiful place with views of the Hudson
River. Mr. Harvey shared that he was classically trained in golf course operations from Pine Valley Golf
Course was ranked #1 in the country. Mr. Harvey stated their goal is to make HGNC the best it can be
and that they need to protect the course and it must be at its best. Mr. Harvey concluded his statement by
thanking the Board.
Next, Phil Moyles, HNGC President of Board of Directors spoke. Mr. Moyles stated
that he became a member in 2002 when it became a member-owned club after they purchased the club
from National Fairways and it has been a member owned club ever since 2002. Mr. Moyles shared that
he represents over 455 club members and has over 350 members in the metropolitan New York area and
100+ international members, as well as 30 junior members. Mr. Moyles stated he felt that was relevant
information in understanding that HNGC is an international golf club. Mr. Moyles added that he
understood that HNGC is not perfect and stated that at the same time, everyone in the Village owns assets
and that improving and protecting assets is important in maintaining their value. Mr. Moyles stated that
HNGC has reached an inflection point with the club. Mr. Moyles explained that the greens were
originally built in 1994 and the club was completed in 1996 and that the greens have a 20-year shelf life.
Mr. Moyles added that they have extended the life of the greens for as long as they could but they no
longer know from season to season if they can maintain the current greens. Mr. Moyles then expressed his
feelings of being sympathetic to the fact that when a project is about to begin there are concerns about the
2

possible impacts it could have on the Village and its residents. Mr. Moyles shared that he is a resident of
Rye, NY which is a flood zone and therefore understands the concerns around water. Mr. Moyles also
expressed his understanding that the golf course sits up on a hill and at times it feels it is remote but added
that they are not remote. Mr. Moyles noted that their members pay dues which contribute to paying taxes
to the Village and therefore HNGC wants to be part of the solution but are also asking for help. Mr.
Moyles noted that Hudson National is not building a new golf course, rather they are making repairs to
the existing course to help extend the life of the golf course.
Mr. Moyles stated he has no issue being accountable to the Village and its residents but at the same time
there is an urgency in completing the project because it is an asset that needs to go through a specific
process as they have a set of grasses that need to be replaced and bunkers that have reached their shelflife. Mr. Moyles stated that if the project is completed correctly, HNGC will not have to think about the
greens for another 35 to 40 years. He stated that he has been on the Board of Hudson National for over
10 years and they have evolved to become a very strong club and that the noise that was around the club
when it was National Fairways is now gone adding that HNGC is very strong financially and they are in a
position in which they can offer more support to the community. Mr. Moyles noted that HNGC does a lot
but suggested that they should do more and asked for the help of the Village expressing that he feels
HNGC is an important partner to the Village. Mr. Moyles expressed understanding of how the course’s
neighbors feel and stated that they need to figure it out together and reiterated that they are not building a
new course rather refurbishing the existing club based on the assets they have and that they have aged to
the point where they can no longer maintain it. Mr. Moyles concluded by thanking the Board and stating
he understands there are difficult decisions that have to be made but at the same time no one has ever
called him as the President of the club to express their concerns directly. Mr. Moyles added that his
phone is open and if someone is upset, he is happy to take those phone calls because he feels that dealing
with conflict head on is the best approach. Mr. Moyles concluded by stating they are willing to answer
any questions and appreciate the Board’s patience.
Mr. Scales then offered a brief presentation marking some of the changes to the application since the
December 7, 2022 WCC meeting. Mr. Scales thanked the Board and those members who were able to
take a tour of the course. Mr. Scales then presented information regarding the application stating that the
total disturbance of the site is 7.5 acres with the breakdown as follows: disturbance on the greens is 2.7
acres, the disturbance of the bunkers are 1.5 acres and the replacement of the irrigation system is 1-acre,
temporary material of storage of .45 acres incidental disturbance is 1.5 acres which is accounted for
unknown factors regarding the equipment around the course. Mr. Scales re-stated that the work to be
performed includes restoring the bunkers and the greens in the same footprint as they were approved back
in 1994. Mr. Scales explained that the irrigation system will remain in the ground and the heads will be
removed and the system will be capped. Mr. Scales explained they will be putting new irrigation lines in
throughout the property, replacing the system. Mr. Scales added that the system is 27 years old and
referenced the sheet provided to the Board titled “Golf Course Items-Expected Life Cycle.”
Mr. Scales stated that when the irrigation system is being installed it will be done piece by piece and on
any given day approximately 400-800 linear feet of pipe may be installed and on that same day it will be
backfilled and the sod will be replaced so that the opportunity for erosion is minimal. Mr. Scales
3

elaborated that with the sod replacement and the plan outlined in the submitted Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP), they feel confident there will not be erosion issues. Mr. Scales stated that he,
himself is responsible for carrying out the SWPPP and that he and Mr. Mastromonaco, P.E., will be
overseeing the project and completing inspections. In the SWPPP it states inspections will take place two
times every seven days and that HNGC will be able to provide those reports. Mr. Scales stated that
manufactured sand will be poured out. Mr. Scales then shared benefits of the project that included using
less water, less pesticides, and that the new irrigation system will take up 15% less area of the golf course
and that they expect to use 2 million gallons less of water each year.
Mr. O’Connor, Village Engineer asked that Mr. Scales to review the materials to be excavated and how
those materials will be handled. Mr. Scales explained that the greens are a sandy mixture and when
removed they will spread the material out on the playable areas of the course. Mr. Scales explained that
when the course was originally built there were budget cuts that did not allow for sand capping, although
they will now be able to take the excavated material from the greens and bunkers and spread it out on
playable areas of which will help with drainage and that the playable areas are expected to perform better
during wet conditions.
Mr. Milton then spoke stating that while the total disturbance area is 7.5 acres, he wanted to make it clear
that that area is not in the wetland buffer. Mr. Milton clarified that only 1.43 acres are actually in the
wetland buffer disturbance. The Board then asked for confirmation that the 1.43-acre disturbance in the
wetland buffer zone is included in the total 7.5 acres of disturbance. Mr. Milton and Mr. Scales both
confirmed that the 1.43 acres in the buffer zone is included in the total disturbance area of 7.5 acres.
Mr. Scales then shared those other materials to be removed during the proposed project is the sod of
which when removed, will most likely be taken off site but it is still to be determined. Mr. Scales then
stated there are no plans to use their lower storage area for the sod. Mr. Milton mentioned that what is
known as the ancillary storage area/maintenance area at the base of Prickly Pear Road will not be used for
any portion of this project.
Ms. Whitehead, Village Attorney asked for confirmation that the stockpile the golf club has on Prickly
Pear Hill will not be used. Mr. Milton confirmed.
Chairman Greenbaum stated that he had been in contact with Rob Luntz, Planning Board Chairman who
had asked him to forward questions from the Planning Board to the applicant. Chairman Greenbaum
shared that Mr. Luntz and the Planning Board would like to know where the old materials will be moved
to and placed.
Mr. Scales responded that the sandy material from the bunkers and green will be spread on playable
surfaces and that sod will be trucked away. Chairman Greenbaum also shared that the Planning Board
wanted to know more about where the ½ acre of the new material will be stored. Additionally, Mr. Luntz
inquired about the use of the maintenance yard but as Chairman Greenbaum stated it was already
addressed by the applicant and that they would not be using the maintenance yard for storage. Mr.
4

Wiegman noted that during the site visit to the course Mr. Scales showed the Board where the storage
material sites will be which are a parking lot near the clubhouse and the other area is out on the course.
Mr. Scales then shared the number of trucks that will be used to move the fill stating that there will be
384 trucks and the period of time the trucks will be there are 285 days for an average of 1.5 trucks per
day. Mr. Scales specified they will only be using Finney Farm Road and Arrowcrest Drive and that
Prickly Pear Hill Road will not be used. Mr. Milton added that during a portion of the time when the
trucks are moving materials, there will be no golf play (no members coming and going) noting there
should be reduced traffic on Arrowcrest Drive. It was also noted that there was no tee box renovation in
the plans because no work will be done on the tee boxes.
Mr. Greenbaum then asked the applicant to discuss the changes to the application regarding the 14th
green. Mr. Scales shared that initially HNGC was looking to lengthen the 14th green but in doing so they
would have to cut trees so they therefore decided not to move the 14th green and have withdrawn it from
the application/plan.
Chairman Greenbaum asked if there were any more questions from the Board before opening the meeting
to the public. Mr. Wiegman asked if the plan with spreading the sand is to spread it out and allow it to
percolate into the substrate. Mr. Scales said yes, adding that they have spreaders that meters and spreads
the sand out so that it filters down through the substrate.
Mr. O’Connor, Village Engineer then discussed the steep slope disturbance associated with the
application stating that there is some disturbance on a steep slope and that the Village has law that allows
disturbance up to a certain threshold and when it exceeds that threshold then a permit is required. Mr.
O’Connor stated that he reviewed the calculations submitted by HNGC and the disturbance in each steep
slope category and after review it was determined that they are all below the threshold level in each of the
3 steep slope category and that the combined steep slope disturbance is also under the threshold that
requires a permit however it was noted that erosion sediment control is still required and will occur on
those slopes. Mr. O’Connor also shared that the SWPPP was received from HNGC that is required by
DEC regulations and Village regulations and that Mr. O’Connor will be reviewing that plan. Mr.
O’Connor added that the SWPPP under DEC regulations requires routine inspections of the work by the
courses consultant(s) and the reports are then submitted to Mr. O’Connor for review. Prior to the start of
work after the SWPPP is approved, the DEC will be notified with a Notice of Intent addressed.
Mr. Wetherbee asked about some acreage calculations that were presented earlier and wanted to know if
the engineering department had reviewed them. Mr. O’Connor stated that he reviewed them as well as
had discussions with HNGC about having a buffer so they numbers presented are acceptable and noted
that having the disturbance area of 7.5 acres and buffer zone at 1.5 acres was satisfactory and acceptable
as the total combined is below the 10-acre threshold and the numbers have been verified and are correct.
Mr. O’Connor then discussed that the bridges were there to essentially span the wetland area during the
initial construction of the course so there would be no impact on the wetland area proper.
5

Chairman Greenbaum asked the applicant to share what steps they will take to mitigate any
environmental impacts within the 120’ft wetland buffer area. Mr. Scales explained that they will follow
the SWPPP that was submitted which included the use of hay bales, silt fence, erosion control logs, and
will use tarping if they know of an anticipated storm.
Chairman Greenbaum explained that as the WCC they must ensure there is no adverse impact on the
environment or the wetlands as well as on the safety and integrity of nearby properties and their owners
while being fair to the applicants.
Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney then spoke. Ms. Whitehead stated there had been a lot of discussion
regarding SEQRA and the classification as a SEQRA Type II Action. Ms. Whitehead wanted to make it
clear that it was not a discretionary decision rather a determination under the law, following regulations.
Ms. Whitehead noted that as per the proposed work described by the applicants and confirmed
disturbance by the Village Engineer, the primary items fall under the Type II Action list and that the items
under the DEC regulations and the provided criteria under the Type II list, have been determined that
these actions are not likely to have a negative environmental impact.
Ms. Whitehead stated that the 10 acres is the determined threshold as per outlined in Section 617.4 of
SEQRA Handbook as well as the proposed work falling under the category maintenance and repair as it
being “replacement in kind” providing the example of replacing bulk heads. Ms. Whitehead reiterated
that the work described is a Type II action of which has been determined as per outlined that they are not
likely to have a negative impact and do not require review under SEQRA but will require review under
the Board and the Village.
Chairman Greenbaum stated that in considering the application and as part of the condition of approval
for a wetland permit, one condition will be that the Village will retain a 3rd party inspector at the expense
of the applicant (HNGC). Mr. Greenbaum stated that have a 3rd party inspector would go a long way to
assure that the project will be appropriately overseen.
The Chairman then asked the Board if they have any additional questions regarding the application.
Mr. Wiegman asked about the long-term impacts on water use and asked if they will be irrigating/ using
more drought resistant grasses which will require fewer watering and pesticide dosing and wanted to
confirm that as provided by the applicant they will be using approximately 2 million gallons less of water
per year. Mr. Scales confirmed, stating they usually use approximately 19 million gallons of water per
year and the estimated use of water with the new seed is 17 million gallons of water per year.
The Board then asked what their source of the water is. The applicant replied that it is a combination of
Village water and well water however they are turning more toward well water. Mr. Scales stated that
they typically used 100% off Village water but are now turning significantly to wells. Mr. Milton added
that the majority of water that will be used for irrigation will come from ground water sources that are
recharged.

6

Before opening the meeting to public comment, Chairman Greenbaum outlined correspondences received
from Domna Candido, Paula Chabrowe, Brett Scales and Bob Davis, HGNC Attorney.
The meeting was then opened to the public.
Steve Varvaro, residing at 1263 Albany Post Road came forward to speak. Mr. Varvaro stated that he
was thrilled to hear that the Village will be bringing in an independent consultant to oversee the project.
Mr. Varvaro then read a prepared statement to the Board (see attached). After concluding reading his
written statement, Mr. Varvaro expressed his frustration that this project and application was kept in the
hands of the WCC rather than go through the Planning Board and SEQRA process. Mr. Varvaro stated
that HNGC “brought out their big guns” because of the importance of the project proceeding. Mr.
Varvaro concluded by stating that it is a big project and tearing the course apart will require significant
oversight.
Mr. Scales, at his own discretion responded to Mr. Varvaro’s comment. Mr. Scales discussed an
irrigation replacement that he over saw and Oak Hill Golf Club as well as a bunker repair in which the
scope of work was much larger than the proposed project at HNGC. Mr. Scales noted that the repairs of
HNGC are very different than the referenced project at Oak Hill and that the only permit Oak Hill was
required to have was a fill permit and the project at Oak Hill was done under a much more restricted time
frame. Mr. Harvey also spoke in reference to Oak Hills Golf Club and the scope of work that was done
there in comparison to the proposed refurbishment of HNGC.
Mr. Varvaro responded to the applicants’ comments by expressing his frustration in regards to the time
spent over 2 years in attempts to protect their own assets (their neighboring properties) with the proposed
solar project at HGNC and that from their experience, there was a loss of trust with HNGC.
Ms. Domna Candido then spoke. Ms. Candido introduced herself to the Board and asked for
confirmation that the Board had received her 2-part letter as well as her 1-page response to Attorney, Bob
Davis’s correspondence. Ms. Whitehead confirmed they had been received.
Ms. Candido then stated that in following Mr. Varvaro’s comments about the proposed solar project at
HNGC, she too wanted to make a point about the project. Ms. Candido shared her opinion in which she
felt the approval process was deceptive and that they were given misleading information. Chairman
Greenbaum stated that the solar project was not relevant to the current application before the Board and
noted that Ms. Candido was referencing a proposed project (application) that had been withdrawn and is
no longer in play and requested that Ms. Candido confine her comments only to the current application.
Ms. Candido then shared with the Board that when the EAF was submitted for the current proposed
project, she felt it was filled with misinformation and misrepresentations and stated that because of the 2
years spent with the proposed solar project there was a loss of trust with the golf course. Ms. Candido
then stated that there was information in her letter she submitted to the WCC, that expressed that she felt
the information provided on the application by HNGC wasn’t an accurate representation about the
replacement of the irrigation system and refurbishment to the course. Ms. Candido referenced the timing
7

of the withdrawal of the solar project application as well as the amendments Mr. Scales made to the
Wetland Permit Application (i.e. the revision of the work description and withdrawal of the work to be
done on 14th green) after receiving her letter. Ms. Candido then shared her frustration with the Board that
she believed the application was amended so that it would not have to go before the Planning Board. Ms.
Candido then discussed her belief that the language and use of the word “maintenance” in Village laws
references maintenance work such as ground maintenance (i.e., mowing) and that such maintenance is
minor, not needing a SEQRA classification as Type I. Ms. Candido added that she felt however, using
the word “maintenance” when referencing actions on steep slopes is very different. Ms. Candido
referenced the submitted topography drawings/plans, specifically questioning the plans that were
examined stating there are areas on those “topos” where the lines are thin and close, indicating steep
slopes and while permits may not be required because HNGC is not digging and working on those areas,
when it rains, there is runoff into the wetlands area. Ms. Candido added that the Board has jurisdiction
over those areas so when talking about SEQR and making a Type II determination, she expressed her
opinion that that analysis process was not done thoroughly because they needed to examine if there would
be any adverse environmental impacts on the area. Ms. Candido shared in her opinion that section
617.7C of SEQR should have been looked at. At that point, the allotted time given to for public comment
was up. Ms. Candido then asked for clarification if road repairs would be completed on both Finney
Farm Road and Arrowcrest Drive post work. Mr. Milton then stated that if there is a 3rd party inspector
and they make the determination the road(s) need to be repaired, HNGC will do the repairs. The WCC
stated that any damage to the roads during construction, must be repaired by HNGC.
Next, to speak from the public was Daniel Oppenheim of 17 Mount Green Road.
Mr. Oppenheim introduced himself and stated that he had no intention of speaking at the meeting
however as a resident of the Village he wanted to provide his impression and thoughts regarding the
application. Mr. Oppenheim expressed his appreciation for Mr. Moyles positive comments regarding the
Village, that his door is open to residents as well as serving as a partner to the Village. Mr. Oppenheim
then discussed the positive commonalities that he and the golf course both share and that both been in the
Village for 25+years, that there is mutual respect, and that they both share resources. Mr. Oppenheim
then stated that he would like to go back 25 years and be able to restore his water quality. Mr.
Oppenheim shared his belief that there were financial damages to residents over the years inflicted by the
course and felt it would be nice for those to be taken care of. Mr. Oppenheim shared that there was a
nearby resident who claimed to have extreme financial damages caused by the course. Mr. Oppenheim
also raised concern over what he felt were ongoing environmental damages such as tree cutting that he
would like to see rectified. Mr. Oppenheim then posed the question if HNGC was really helping the
Village and asked if they would consider mitigating claimed past damages. Mr. Oppenheim also asked
why as a resident, should he trust HNGC? Mr. Oppenheim then requested that the WCC keep in mind to
not just consider the legal aspects of the application but to make actions that are in the best interest to the
people of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson while considering the application.
Mr. Moyles responded to Mr. Oppenheim by stating he can only comment on a couple of points. Mr.
Moyles stated that as far as the point made about water, Hudson National feels confident that they will not
be buying water from the Village in the future due to the use of wells however it is discussion to be had
8

since the purchasing of water is a revenue source for the Village but that he believes they can be totally
self-sufficient. Mr. Moyles then stated that he cannot comment on the claimed financial damages as he
would not know how to quantify that at the moment. Mr. Moyles then addressed the point about the tree
cutting stating that while the trees they removed were granted permission by the Village, he would be
open to listening to those concerns. Mr. Moyles then stated that HNGC had submitted a letter that shared
all the beneficial things HNGC has done for the Village of which they have never been public about but
based on this meeting, the club no longer wants to remain silent about what they have provided for the
Village. Mr. Moyles concluded that he felt there was a lot of misinformation given and that he has no
problem getting into the middle of it to solve the issues as best he can.
With no further comment, Chairman Greenbaum closed the public meeting.
Mr. Greenbaum then stated they will direct staff to draft a Wetlands Activity Permit approval with
conditions as identified in the meeting that will include best managing practices. The conditions will
include erosion control, damage control to protect the wetlands within the 120’ft buffer, the retaining of a
3rd party inspector at the expense of the applicant that will provide ongoing oversight, and a condition that
any road damage caused by the construction will be repaired by HNGC.
3. Approval of Minutes
Mr. Greenbaum made a motion to approve the December 7, 2022 meeting minutes. All in favor.
4. Adjournment
There being no further business to go before the WCC, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:10p.m.

Respectfully Submitted By,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Water Control Commission

9

