MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Feb 26, 2023 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin
Ashley Clemente
Brian Pugh
Joel Gingold
Len Simon
David Goldman
Bernie Yozwiak

Absent:
Niall Kelleher (in Ireland until March)
Dan Columbini
Jon Katz

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): Keiko Niccolini, registrar for pilot food scrap recycling program
Announcements: none
The agenda order for this meeting was adjusted to allow our guest to speak first.
- Food Scrap Recycling Program
We’ve had 7 drop-off days, all successful
(17 more to go). Issues with County truck
pickups have been resolved. The program
is now essentially running on “auto-pilot”.
The February Village newsletter had an
article and photo about it. The last 3 dropoffs averaged about 350 pounds per week.
See Dan’s tracking chart at right.
Keiko summarized the results of a short poll of participants taken last week. Of the 38
program participants, 22 responded. All were “very positive” about the program. A few
suggestions were made e.g., expanding operating hours. The compostable bags are
being consumed faster than projected. Keiko agreed to find a local vendor to supply
them to participants. Lindsay will ask DPW to order 3 more cases. A Saturday 10:30
AM photo op of people dropping off their scraps is being organized [tentatively March
25]. Dave agreed to take pics.
Extending the program after June was discussed by moving the shed to the south end
of the train station parking lot. Lindsay estimated that an ongoing program involving up
to 100 residents would cost between $7K and $10K, mostly to cover site manager
wages and County carting charges. Len noted that any proposed budgeting needs to
be in Bryan Healy’s hands by April. Lindsay agreed to formalize those costs for Bryan.
They can’t be recouped from lower trash carting charges which are based on
assumed volumes per truckload, even if a truck is not full.
Brian Pugh asked about GHG reduction from composting. Relative to incineration,
Lindsay indicated that there was little or none. EPA counts the carbon from food
scraps as “biogenic”, i.e., it’s recycled back into new food, as long it’s not landfilled

1

(Croton hasn’t landfilled for 37 years). Keiko responded that the main benefits instead
focus on soil regeneration. Anecdotal comments from program participants also noted
how the process has educated them and their children on recycling.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- NYSERDA CEC-sponsored projects
Washington firehouse solar rooftop: CEG drone photos were sent (2/3) to committee
members. Punch list issues are now being addressed. On 2/14, Con Ed approved
interconnection with its grid. On 3/11 (a Saturday) at 10 AM, a ribbon-cutting for the
project will be held. Committee members are invited. Dave agreed to take pics. Len
agreed to bring cookies. The firehouse is at 81 North Riverside Ave., at the corner with
High Street. Park on the street, NOT in the firehouse’s driveway.
Once paperwork issues are done, we will (with NYSERDA approval) transfer the $20K
left over from the project toward purchase of another municipal EV, perhaps the Ford
F-150 Lightning electric truck desired by the DPW (MSRP = ~$55K).
Firehouse heat pump controls: While all parts are now in hand, on 2/15 Carey &
Walsh emailed: “I went over this again with my service department this morning. They
are having trouble getting the install into the schedule because they are down 2 men
unexpectedly and for personal reasons. This deficiency in manpower is temporary and
they are actively trying to make room in the schedule for this but emergency service
calls keep popping up. I apologize for this delay and will get back to you as soon as
possible with a concrete [installation] date”. Once the job is done, Bernie offered to
assist Jon with commissioning the controls.
- Other Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Drilling for footings continues at the south end of the parking
lot. To maximize rent to be collected from SolSystems, the Village is negotiating taking
over the cost and installation (by DPW) of the underground part of the storm water
management system (SWMS) for handling runoff from the canopies.
New solar options: On 1/30, the Village manager and attorney reviewed the
“Community Solar 3.0” deal offered by Ecogy, to be powered by its Kitchawan Farms
facility in Ossining, scheduled for startup this fall. The attorney OKed a process that
would not involve a customer acquisition fee-for-service arrangement. Instead, Ecogy
will offer a voluntary donation after our recruitment efforts are finished (probably in late
summer). Lindsay will draft program details for committee review.
Comm. Solar 2.0 (CS2) status: Ecogy said (2/21) that its customer acquisition
contractor (PowerMarkets) had messed up connecting Croton’s 29 CS2 participants
with Ecogy’s Yorktown project, and has been fired. Its new contractor will connect us

2

with its Kitchawan Farms project in late fall. Joel asked about switching his CS
subscription to the train station project. Lindsay said that would be fine.
IBM solar canopies: Bernie reported on the 5.4 MW system at IBM’s Watson
Research Center in Yorktown. He showed us pictures provided by IBM’s engineer
Arnie Vimba. In a 2/9 email, Vimba said that “We are about 50% thru steel and canopy
erection. Once canopy is fully installed, we will make one more pass thru the parking
lot to install the solar panels. The construction phase is a bit slow since this parking lot
is used by site employees every day and we can only access 25% of the area at a
time…The completion date is still fluid but it will occur in 1Q 2024.”
- EV/EVSE
We continue to wait for word from DEC on our ~$150K grant application to cover train
station chargers, installation, electrical infrastructure, and 2 years of free charging. On
2/7, DEC said: “We just finished scoring all the applications on Friday {2/3}. There is
still a bit of work to do in order to get to the award announcement. Hopefully we can
get it out in early spring.” {emphasis added} Our application was submitted 9/7/2022.
A recent problem with one of the dual-port chargers at the Muni Bldg was remotely
fixed by ChargePoint, thus avoiding another expensive repair. Getting this done,
however, took several months of badgering its support staff.
Bernie asked about getting EV chargers installed in the parking lot at Vassallo Park,
next to the Holy Name of Mary Church. Lindsay said that would have to wait until we
get the train station EV chargers done, hopefully before the end of this year.
Bernie reviewed the status of Con Ed’s SmartCharge reward program for off-peak EV
charging. It’s being replaced by a smartphone app program run by ev.energy.com that
offers similar financial benefits. SmartCharge will shut down and send out its last
reward checks by 3/31, after which the ev.energy program will take over.
- Funding Sources/Issues
Len said we need to wait for details (i.e., rules and forms) under the BIL and IRA
programs regarding how municipalities may access their funding. He verified that
Croton was eligible for “Community Benefits” and other programs. Hopefully, they will
be available by late summer.
He specifically noted that the USDOT Community Charging and Fuel Grants Program
has posted its program overview and description of eligible applicants and projects.
They say the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) is “coming soon”. Similarly, the
EPA Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, for which Croton is also eligible, announced
that its NOFO will be released “early this summer”. Len will keep an eye out for both
NOFO’s.

3

Some programs offer more to “low income” households. Len said that was a
household’s “adjusted gross income” (AGI, on the 1040 tax form) that meets a federal
formula. For all Croton residents, that comes out to an AGI below $90,080 per year.
Bernie reported on a SW webinar on programs offered by NYSERDA, Con Ed, and
the IRA. As of 1/17/23, Con Ed again offers $1,000 for installing a HPWH. That’s on
top of the federal $1,750 and on top of the 30% tax credit on the total cost (plus extra
if new electric work is needed). Bottom line: a HPWH could replace an existing electric
DHW heater at zero net cost. Making that case will help greatly toward finally getting
our residential HPWH program off-the-ground.
Bernie provided much more data on incentives via webinar slides to be sent to
committee members, some based on the Rewire America calculator. Ashley chatted it
to committee members as https://www.rewiringamerica.org/app/ira-calculator.
Members discussed various items that need development or clarification. Ashley and
Dave both raised the issue of maximizing HP incentives by removing existing heating
systems, e.g., does that include the distribution hydronic piping or just the boiler?
- Other Reports
[Not discussed] On 2/13, Croton declared itself a Green Purchasing Community, as
per rules for that State program. By following State specs for how it buys products and
by filing a resolution thereof, Croton will secure 4 more CSC credits.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
Mark Karell, an energy consultant based in Mamaroneck, will be posting a one-page
summary of our firehouse project in his monthly ccesworld.com newsletter to clients,
activists, etc. Mark was a guest at our April 2017 meeting. Lindsay wrote the blurb.
On 2/8, Lindsay was interviewed by the River Journal for a March article on solar
installations in Westchester County. It may feature our DPW and firehouse systems.
- New Business / Other Issues
The status of the Grid Rewards program (for residential demand response) was
discussed. Checks to several members ranged from $20 to $127 for last summer’s
effort, with some confusion as to why they were less than the 2021 summer. Some
disappointment was expressed regarding the lack of clarity on the payments, the
response notification process, and the program in general.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, March. 26, at 10:30 AM via zoom

4

