Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
February 16, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Amos Bloomberg, Marc Albrecht,
Edward Hadad, Robert Olson, Matthew Schuerman
Ex officio: Trustee Len Simon, BOE Liaison Joshua Diamond
1. Approved Minutes from 01-27-22 Meeting
2. Updates from Matt Arnold meeting with Village Manager Healey
a. Sidewalk 60/40 Program - the Village is requesting $30K to complete the
remaining 40 properties who were on the list by December 2022. It is unclear if
the program will continue. The Committee discussed ideas on how a new
program could operate, perhaps 25 properties a year get completed via a lottery.
There are programs around the country that operate this way. Perhaps if you
miss out 3 years in a row, you are guaranteed to get in. This Incentivizes people
to sign up, but also gives incentive for homeowners to complete themselves.
i.
In addition Bryan has asked us to identify the top 10-15% worst areas of
the Village. Amos and Robert will start to identify these. Matt Arnold will
get the list of the 40 properties slated for completion, not to double up.
ii.
For areas where the sidewalk is completely missing from decades of
neglect, Manger Healey is looking into options to address this situation.
b. Dummy Light - There was a study completed pre pandemic with
recommendations that was never voted on by the Board of Trustees. Trustee Len
Simon will share the study with the Committee. The Board is ready to revisit this
issue and determine a path forward. A design phase would follow.
c. Cleveland/Benedict corridor – The Village is planning to paint some new
crosswalks in the spring on Benedict. On Cleveland, there are still some drainage
grates that need to be replaced. Robert Olson will map out the locations.
i.
Sharrows - Manger Healey is not entirely sure what they signify, along
with most of the public. If the Committee wants sharrows painted, we
would need to give more education on the subject. Some members of the
Committee expressed reservations about their effectiveness.
d. Halfmoon Bay pathway - the bike path on the train side of the property is still not
replaced. The pathway on the river side of the property is not yet fixed. The
Manager has expressed a more productive dialogue with the new HMB HOA
president and is working to remedy these issues.

e. Complete Streets - The process outlined in this document does not appear to
dovetail with how the Village is operating. The Manager is receptive to sitting
down with the Committee for working sessions.
3. BPC Recommendations for Village Budget - Trustee Len Simon suggests
representatives attend a public hearing with the DPW. Possibly participate in department
presentations and to create two or three slides to present priorities to the Board.
a. Endorse 60/40 program
b. Dummy Light intersection reconfiguration
c. Cleveland Corridor safety improvements
4. Policy Updates - Marc Albrecht presented an overview on the NYSDOT’s documentation
on traffic calming and highway design. The file can be found here:
https://www.dot.ny.gov/divisions/engineering/design/dqab/hdm/hdm-repository/chapt_25.
pdf
5. AOB
a. Robert Olson proposed creating signage for damaged sidewalks;
b. He also brought up an issue of cars parking too close to sidewalks suggesting
the laws need better enforcement

