Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
April 20, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Dan Castner, Amos
Bloomberg, Erik Ferguson, Edward Hadad, Riley Moeller, Lloyd Oestreicher, Matthew
Schuerman
Ex officio: Trustee Len Simon, Mayor Brian Pugh
1. Approved Minutes from 03-16-22 Meeting
2. Riley Moeller - Owner of Pedego Electric Bikes
a. Riley came to introduce himself and discuss the opening of his new store. He
would like to join the committee and look for ways to collaborate and contribute to
biking opportunities and safety.
b. One possible project he suggested was establishing secure docking stations for
bikes at the train station. This could be a paid option to increase revenue and
offer a more secure solution to bike owners.
c. The group had a larger discussion on ways Croton could make its station more
useful to cyclists. Possibly a repair station, such as ones offered in other places
in the county. Video cameras to deter thefts. Signs or resources to offer
newcomers looking to use Croton has a biking origination point.
3. Earth Day (4/30) and Summer Fest (6/5)
a. The BPC will host a table for Earth Day. Matt will post a sheet for volunteer slots.
b. BPC will also host a table for Summer Fest. In addition to collateral such as Slow
Down Stickers and information on the Committee’s role, we will look to create
recommended biking and walking routes that could be offered via a QR code.
Erik and Robert to discuss routes.
4. Village Sidewalk Repair Program
a. The DPW is currently working to clear the backlog of projects for those who had
already signed up. What will the next phase be? The Committee discussed the
desire to see the program continue or increase in scope. There are other
municipalities around the country that have various incentives for residents to
sign up and cost share.
b. Matt Arnold and Matthew Schuerman will review different policies from around
the country.
c. Amos Bloomberg and Robert Olson will work to identify the locations in Croton in
most need of repair
d. Superintendent Frank Balbi will be invited to next meeting to discuss the current
plans

5. Outreach & Promotion - What other groups can the BPC work with and look for possible
collaboration?
a. Tarrytown Cyclists group
b. Westchester Cycle Club
c. Westchester Mountain Bike Association - Blue Mountain
d. Westchester Parks Department
6. AOB - Other business and topics for May session
a. Possible ½ Day Bike a Thon - Eliot Way? Perhaps in 2023. As the Harry Chapin
run/walks do for running and walking, could we have an annual day for biking?
b. Crosswalks on Benedict - is this happening? To discuss with Frank Balbi.
c. New bike racks? More attractive ones? Should this be a benefactor program?

