Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
July 20, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Amos Bloomberg, Dan Castner, Erik
Ferguson, Edward Hadad, Steve Krisky, Robert Olson, Matthew Schuerman
Ex officio: Mayor Brian Pugh, Trustee Len Simon
1. Approved Minutes from 06-15-22 meeting
2. SS4A Grant - Update on grant application for planning funding
a. Matt Arnold and Len Simon met with Emily Mancini, Assistant to the Village
Manager, to discuss a Planning Grant for Safe Streets for All. Mancini has
experience in grant writing and will use the Master Plan as the foundation of a
proposal. Estimated size of the grant request would be around $200K. It would
fund a transportation planner to work with DPW to prioritize and budget the
structural things we would do in the context of future safety. The ultimate
objective would be to determine a capital plan, seeking additional funding for
those projects in a new grant.
b. Data from BPC surveys can be incorporated.
c. We can add letters from state and local officials, Board of Education, Rotary etc.
d. Application would be submitted around September 15 and we could expect a
response possibly by December or January
3. Project MOVER - Update on Ossining’s bid for bike share program grant
a. Grant is moving forward - Croton informally gave support and would be interested
in exploring collaboration if/when they receive a grant
4. Outreach & Recruiting - to other local/regional committees and organizations, and for
new members
a. Regional Committees - There is Peekskill Walks, and committees in Tarrytown
and Pleasantville. Matthew Shuerman made some calls and participated in a
meeting in Pleasantville. They appear to be very good at getting grants, such as
sidewalks for downtown development. Otherwise we seem to be doing everything
that they are doing.
b. Community Outreach - we could provide more information on what we are doing,
show accomplishments, engage people - invite people to join. Perhaps a monthly
or create a community calendar. We have an email list. One maintained by Amos
Bloomberg from the survey, plus names to add from physical signup sheets.

c. Other activities. The BPC could liaison closer with the Planning Board and the
Conservation Advisory Council. Steve Krisky, member of the Planning Board
would very much appreciate greater cooperation with the BPC.
5. Update and discussion on priority areas
a. Dummy Light intersection - good feedback so far, but buses can’t make the turn
b. Gotwald Circle - DPW working on planning design
c. HMB pathway - it appears the Village is awaiting progress from the HMB HOA.
The BPC/Board of Trustees need to get clarification from Dan O’Conner, Village
Engineer, on next steps/what needs to happen. The last report was that a barrier
needs to be created so that roots can’t come across the pathway, after the
existing roots are removed and the path is repaired by HMB. The Village owns
the northern half, and the alleged plan would be for Village to take over the
southern half after it is in good repair. If the HOA continues to fail to remedy this
situation, we should consider community pressure such as letters to the Gazette,
galvanizing residents of HMB, etc.
6. AOB - Topics for Sept session
a. Katz Property sidewalk - will be on Maple, but not Municipal - what can be done
to push for this?
b. Lot A plans - include bike / alternative modes of transportation
c. S Riverside Ave b/t CPA and Straddles (east side of street) - can brush be
cleared to allow pedestrians room to walk along the side of the road?

