Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
January 27, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Erik Ferguson, Edward
Hadad, Robert Olson, Matthew Schuerman
Ex officio: Trustee Len Simon, BOE Liaison Joshua Diamond
1. Approved Minutes from 12-15-21 Meeting
2. Committee Roles - The following roles for members were established:
● Community Relations and Communications Lead - Matthew Schuerman
● Ambassador Ombudsmen - Robert Olson
● Policy Lead - Marc Albrecht
● Secretary (and Archivist) - Edward Hadad
● Data and Information Steward - Amos Bloomberg
● Design and Infrastructure - Daniel Castner
● Board of Trustees Liaison - Len Simon
● Board of Education Liaison - Josh Diamond (He may serve through July 15)
3. Updates on priority items from the Village Manager, Bryan Healey, communicated to Matt
Schuerman:
● Half Moon Bay Pathway - the Manager is continuing to work with the HOA president to
get the path repaved.
● Parking on 129 near the dam - The State DOT does not want to put signs along the
whole roadway. The Village is working with the agency to see what is possible.
● 60/40 Sidewalk Program Budget - the Village hopes to complete the remaining locations
on the list. DPW will either finish the work themselves or look to contract out the rest, if
enough revenue is collected.
● Matt will request the Manager attend the next BPC meeting to discuss these and other
issues, or to attend a meeting in the near future.
4. Village Budget - Trustee Len Simon gave a brief overview on the Village budgeting process.
Starting in February, the Trustee will work with the Village Manager and departments to get
a better idea of expected revenues for the next fiscal year, which starts on June 1. The
operating budget must be passed by the end of April, with a public hearing on March 28 to
present a draft. Revenues are comprised of taxes, state and federal grants, and fees/fines
collected by the Village. The largest costs are personnel.
There is also the capital budget, where the Village will borrow or bond. The Manager just
successfully renegotiated some bonds, paying off higher rates, for lower rate debt. A lot of
the capital budget is for vehicles. There is also the component of federal and state funding
and programs Croton may apply for.

The BPC is welcome to make a presentation on what the Committee sees as priorities
during the budget process.
5. BPC Priorities - The Committee will determine the top priorities to communicate to the
Village for 2022. Issues/projects could include:
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

6)

Dummy Light / Old Post Grand intersection
Half Moon Bay path in front and in back
Croton Landing to Oscawana Bike Path (This would not be a budget request but a larger
project to work on with County government)
Sidewalk repair
Complete Streets policy
New bike trail through the Van Cortlandt Manor property
PVC access trail behind the High School and/or greater walking experience for the
schools
Benedict / Cleveland Corridor (Sidewalk, crosswalks, drainage, traffic calming, bike
sharrows)

AOB
●

●
●

Along Rt 129, slightly east of Old Post and Grand, some members felt the lanes are too
tight and parking on one side of the road should be eliminated, possibly replaced with a
bike lane. Others brought up that area parking is necessary for little league games and
could create a large issue during those periods, and that the tighter lanes may actually
slow the speed of traffic.
Parking on Sidewalks is an issue that needs to be enforced by the police.
Josh Diamond said the formula for the minimum distance for children to be eligible for
the school bus has traditionally been a circle centered at the school, which is not ideal.
The NYS Board of Education may change this to enable districts to incorporate other
factors, based on safety components. The School Board may request help in sending
emails to legislators in support of this measure.

