Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
May 18, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Frank Balbi - Superintendent of Public
Works, Donald Bane, Amos Bloomberg, Dan Castner, Erik Ferguson, Edward Hadad, Riley
Moeller, Robert Olson
Ex officio: Trustee Len Simon, Mayor Brian Pugh
1. Approved Minutes from 04-20-22 Meeting
2. DPW Updates from Superintendent Frank Balbi
a. A four-way crosswalk will be painted at the intersection of Benedict and Hastings.
This location was in the middle of the boulevard..
b. Striping will be painted at the Dummy Light intersection in front of Croton
Corners. Planters may be added later after more drivers get exposure to the
configuration. Other changes may be considered in time.
c. Gottwald Circle - his team is working on a design for striping and painting to slow
the speed of traffic and to better guide vehicles through the intersection.
d. The drainage grates along Cleveland Ave have been replaced. A reason why
they are more complicated is that there is a concrete roadway under the asphalt
that must be negotiated to make any changes for the grates.
3. Sidewalk Repair Priorities
a. Members of the BPC have highlighted 15 of the sidewalks in most need of repair.
b. The DPW is currently completing the backlog of repairs for those who had
previously signed up for the cost sharing program.
c. As of now, there is no longer a program. It will be up to the Board to restart it in
some fashion and add it to the Village budget.
d. Asked what would help the DPW the most in this area, Frank said a new crew of
3-4 personnel dedicated to the issue. He also said he appreciated reasonable
discussions with stakeholders which he found helpful.
4. Safe Streets and Roads for All (SS4A) Grant Program
a. Trustee Len Simon has identified this Federal program as a potential area for
Croton to apply. The grant submission date is 9/15. The Village can apply directly
without coordination with the County or State for projects as low as $200K.
Communities can also apply for planning grants, and then theoretically re-apply
to fund projects. There may be a higher chance of success if enlarging a project,
however, to include neighboring communities such as th Town of Cordlandt,
Ossining, or others etc.
b. The BPC will make it a priority of the next session to determine projects/ideas to
apply for.

5. Summer Fest - The BPC will host a table. Matt Arnold will share a spreadsheet for
members to volunteer for times and distribute materials.
6. PVC Bike Safety Events - Members encouraged to attend:
a. Bike Safety Class at PVC (Thursday, June 2nd –1:50 PM - 2:50 PM)
b. Ride to School: Friday (June 3rd – 7:30 AM)

