Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
November 16, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Donald Bane, Edward Hadad,Riley
Mohler, Matthew Schuerman, Adam Shapiro, Dan Villa,
Ex officio: Mayor Brian Pugh
1. Approved Minutes from 10-19-22 meeting
2. DPW Updates on recently implemented improvements
a. Gotwald Circle - Lines have been painted around the circle. There are no
crosswalks. Do changes need to be made? To revisit in the January meeting.
b. Upper Village intersection at dummy light - planters are in the bulbout. These will
be replaced at some point with something smaller the following year.
c. Sidewalk repairs - the backlog has been completed. The crew has been
prioritizing BPC notifications for repairs
3. Sidewalk Repair Guidance for Homeowners
a. Can we create a welcome packet for new homeowners on the requirements for
sidewalk maintenance and how to remedy when there is an issue?
b. Need specifics on the cost sharing plan to communicate moving forward.
4. Discussion on other priority areas
a. HMB pathway - significant progress here on repairing many sections of the path
.
5. AOB
a. Sidewalk on S. Riverside in front of Shoprite - this would be up to the owner of
that section of the shopping center
b. Bike lanes on S. Riverside - this appears impractical, the roadway is too narrow.
Sharrows in the road are a possibility.
c. Shoulder on Rt 129. - Mayor Pugh has explored this, it involves too many
stakeholders to effectively coordinate NYC DEP, Town of Cortlandt, Town of
Yorktown, State DOT.
d. Olcott/Maple - this intersection continues to be a hazard for people who want to
cross. Does it need a light or crosswalk? The issue has been elevated in the
past. The crosswalk is placed further north for PVC students to cross to the
staircase, discouraging a crossing at Olcott with no sidewalks and less visibility.

e. Bikes turning left onto Veterans plaza - need a remedy for cyclists who are in the
bike lane who then want to turn towards the train station.
f. Project Mover has received funding by NYSERDA, led by Ossining. Croton will
be part of the expansion.

