Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
March 16, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Marc Albrecht, Edward Hadad, Robert
Olson, Matthew Schuerman, Donald Bane, Erik Ferguson, Dan Castner
Ex officio: Trustee Len Simon, Mayor Brian Pugh
1. Approved Minutes from 02-16-22 Meeting
2. Dummy Light Intersection
a. There was a March 14 2022 Village Board working session where the various
intersection modification proposals were discussed. Matt Arnold and Matt
Schuerman attended and participated. There appeared to be some consensus
between proposals #1 and #4. Additional stop signs are on hold for now.
Superintendent of Public Works Frank Balbi is going to try to design road signage
and some alteration of the parking patterns to present to the Board.
b. The BPC will await Frank’s proposal for further comment.
3. Project MOVER - The Village of Ossining is developing an e-bike sharing program
proposal in the hopes of acquiring a state grant. They invited and encouraged Croton to
consider joining in the proposal. This would be a bike sharing program similar to those
present in many cities, except these would be e-bikes with pedal-assist capabilities to
account for the hilly terrain and expected longer distance trips in our area. Adding Croton
would expand the breadth of their proposal. Members of the BPC affirmed we would be
happy to learn more about their plans, but made no commitment. They will send more
information when available.
4. Summerfest Presence - the BPC will host a table, to provide information, pamphlets,
possibly give out more signs or stickers, and maps.
5. Sidewalk / Crosswalk and Bike Path Priority Recommendations
a. Continuation of Sidewalk repair/replacement
b. Crosswalks on Benedict Blvd
c. Robert Olson to identify drainage grates on Cleveland Drive that have not been
replaced
6. Other business and topics to cover in April session
a. The bike posts located near Croton Corners need bolts/washers - there is an
extra one near Beta Test Kitchen that possibly could be moved
b. Discussion on earmarking funds in the Village budget for active transportation
c. CHIPS funding from NYS - to be used for roads or sidewalks

