Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
January 18, 2023
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Riley Mohler, Matthew Schuerman,
Dan Villa, Amos Bloomberg, Erik Ferguson, Robert Olsen, Steven Krisky,
Ex officio: Mayor Brian Pugh, Len Simon
1. Approved Minutes from November meeting
2. DPW Updates
a. Gotwald Circle - Crosswalk placement/layout and parking changes under review
by DPW (w/ Traffic Engineer); expect to have plans for review by next meeting,
with aim implement changes/paint crosswalks in the Spring
b. Upper Village intersection at dummy light - new planters installed
c. Crosswalk, bike lane/sharrows repainting/refresh will occur in early Spring
d. S. Riverside Sidewalk - to be on Straddles side of SRA to CPA intersection.
Some committee members raised concerns about the sidewalk requiring people
to cross S Riverside in the middle of the block when parking on West side.

3. NYS Complete Streets legislation
a. Len and Mayor slated to meet with Dana Levenberg, our new state rep. In the
coming weeks to discuss. Proposed plan is for State to cover 87.5% of
improvement costs.

4. Discussion on priority areas
a. Issue raised (by RO) re: two parking spaces in front of former Maracas
restaurant, blocking corner visibility at Oneida and S. Riverside. Rob to issue
letter to board (Len and Mayor Pugh) to consider removing parking.
b. Sidewalk on S. Riverside: ~$30K in escrow for sidewalk extension adjacent to
Mobil station to entrance of Croton Commons. Project is pending State DOT
engineering inputs. Mayor to follow-up w/ Bryan Healy on status and next steps.
i.
Additionally raised concerns/ideas for extending sidewalks in area of
Municipal place and adding bike lane
c. Katz Property: Development plan does not include installation of new sidewalk
along Municipal Plan. Plan does include new sidewalk on Maple to Wells Ave.
i.
Mayor has shared plan/schematics for the new sidewalk/extension

d. Village has been able to secure $1.5M in funding for Half Moon Bay bridge (over
train tracks) – thanks to the help of Mondaire Jones.
e. Missing sidewalks:
i.
Sidewalk from Maple to grand just ends
ii.
Missing sidewalk on Cleveland near Gerstein
f. Look into updating the GitHub database of issues/problem areas with
designation/tagging for missing sidewalks
g. 25MPH change – Village has hired traffic engineer/consultant for traffic study.
Results to be shared with DOT to determine approval for speed limit change.
h. Police collecting data on speeds - Len to share data link. May not be useful if
same systems Amos analyzed previously
i. e-Bike Ride Share – Ossining received $7M grant for the program; Croton to be a
satellite.
j. Safe Bike Routes: discussion on developing a guide for cyclists on preferred
routes to common destinations. Subset of members to develop maps using
generic map technology like GPSX or geojson, whichever is easiest to import into
riding apps like strava
i.
QR codes (and corresponding signage) can be created
k. July 4th Bike Parade – Len and Steve are in the process of planning. Len asks
whether BPC can provide letter of support (yes).

