Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
June 15, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Donald Bane, Amos Bloomberg,
Robert Olson, Matthew Schuerman,
Ex officio: Trustee Len Simon, Mayor Brian Pugh
1. Approved Minutes from 05-18-22 Meeting
2. Summer Fest and PVC Bike Safety Recap
a. Summer Fest – good turn-out overall and positive feedback from visitors to the
BPC table. Issues/concerned raised by visitors mostly re: known trouble spots
or themes. Collected more than a dozen entries to mailing list. Many interested
in SDC lawn signs if they become available in a future campaign
b. PVC – Conducted a bike safety course (led by Debbie Ramsey, Matt A,) at PVC
on June 2nd in which 20+ students attended (good turn-out). Course reviewed
bike safety and basic maintenance – along with indoor course and “slow” race to
demonstrate bike handling skills. On June 3rd, conducted a bike-to-school event
with full police escort, which was attended by ~10 students (in the rain!)
c. Len shared possibility of a combined Fall Fest / Oktoberfest event; Village will be
opening a portal to solicit suggestions
3. Upper Village Updates
a. DPW implemented curb extension/striping at the corner of Grand/OPRS.
Temporary ballards were initially installed. Feedback from the School District
was that the turn (~270 degrees) and ballards were difficult for the buses to
navigate. As a temporary solution, ballards have been removed for the
remainder of the school year – and District was asked to redesign bus routes to
avoid that section of the upper Village and turn for the coming school year
b. Designs/plans under review for the inetersction/area as a whole, including plan
for the Dummy Light flower bed.
c. Benedict (4 way) cross-walk established at Hastings Street – the half-way point
on the street between Riverside and Gottwald Circle
d. DPW is actively designing improvement plan for the Gottwald Circle roundabout
area
e. Bike racks – Robert assembled details for new bike rack in front of Black Cow.
Either new bike rack will be procured or existing rack in front of HV Beta Kitchen
relocated. Robert to contact owner of HVBK (Adam Decker) to discuss if rack
used/required at that location. Details to be shared with Frank Balbi/DPW
4. Trails Committee

a. Guest – Terry McGarty (Trails Committee Chair) – joined to provide overview and
discussion on the trails network
b. Discussed possibility of establishing a connector trail in the area of Nordica/Van
Cortlandt Manor. Robert to reach out to Historic HV contact to further the
discussion
5. Safe Streets and Roads for All (SS4A) Grant Program
a. Village to pursue grant to develop a formal Action Plan – based on the existing
BPC Master Plan. Application/Action Plan to focus on safety goals.
b. Deadline for application is 9/15/22

6. AOB:
a. Agreed – next meeting in July, but no meeting for August
b. Half Moon Bay – Promenade walkway/access complete. Conversations ongoing
with HMB HOA on remediating the bike path.

