Croton-on-Hudson
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
Meeting Minutes
September 28, 2022
Members and Guests Present: Matthew Arnold (Chair), Erik Ferguson, Edward Hadad, Steve
Krisky, Robert Olson, Matthew Schuerman, DPW Superintendent Frank Balbi
Ex officio: Trustee Len Simon
1. Approved Minutes from 07-20-22 meeting
2. Updates from Frank Balbi
a. Dummy Light Intersection: School buses have tested the turn. New planters will
be coming. Some residents have made complaints about the height of the trees,
but they are what we have for now. There are new parking restrictions for two
spots in front of ASAP Mortgage; no parking from 3-4PM to allow buses to make
a left turn.
b. Sidewalk Repair Program: DPW will finish the existing list of homeowners who
signed up in recent years. You can see improvements around town. In numerous
cases as the job is in process, an adjoining neighbor will ask to be included,
which DPW tries to accommodate. The crew tries not to take a tree down when
possible. Next year the plan is to open up the program to the first 12 households
that sign up in the spring. Perhaps another 10 or so in the fall. As discussed in
numerous meetings, contracting out the work is more expensive and time
consuming. If the Village were to receive more CHIPS funding, it might be
possible to do more. With regards to enforcing problem sidewalks, it is the
domain of Dan O’Conner, Village Engineer. This goes for sidewalks and problem
hedges as well. BPC must speak with him to better understand this process.
c. Bike Posts: One was moved to close to Happy Hearts on Albany Post Road.
d. Gottwald Circle: Frank and team are working on a plan for the intersection, but
Con Edison plans to replace a gas main and numerous telephone poles this fall
and possibly spring. No action will be taken until those projects are complete.
The new plan would include crosswalks, new striping, and possible new curbage.
3. 25 MPH Speed Limit Village-Wide: Due to a change in New York State law it is possible
for the Village to create a village-wide reduced speed limit. Thoughts were asked for any
roads that should be exempt. The majority of those present did not think there was a
compelling reason for any Village roadways to have a higher limit.
4. SS4A Grant. The proposal for $200K planning grant was submitted.

5. HMB Bike Path. The president of the HOA wrote a letter to homeowners alerting them
the project is commencing. The exact scope was unclear, but this was welcome
progress, to be monitored.
6. Community Newsletter - Matthew Scheurman has taken a lead creating a document for
a fall issue, to be released to the distributions list the committee has, approximately 200
names, in addition to posting on social media.

