Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Monday, March 20, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in
the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, claims numbered 22234042 through 22234291. The motion
was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$147,446.62
$8,775.73
$3,877.53
$33,842.09

3. PUBLIC HEARING
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
2 of 2023 to amend Chapter 204 of the Code of the Village of Croton-onHudson entitled “Taxation”, to add a new Article IX entitled “Volunteer
Firefighters and Ambulance Workers Exemption” was made by Trustee
Horowitz. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with
a 5-0 vote.
Joshua Karpoff, South Riverside Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that
this will help to offset firefighter’s costs and applauded the Board for
moving forward with this proposal.
Email from John Munson, Chief of the Croton Fire Department, thanking
the Board for considering this, he and the Department are very
appreciative of the support they receive from the Board.

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 2

There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the public hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution 48 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Real Property Tax Law §466-a was amended in December of 2022 to
provide local governing bodies, including villages, with the authority to provide real
property tax exemptions, subject to certain limitations, to volunteer firefighters and
ambulance workers, and
WHEREAS pursuant to these amendments, local governments can implement this
property tax exemption through the adoption of a local law, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2023 was drafted for such purpose, and
WHEREAS a Hearing was opened and closed on March 20, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2023 to amend Chapter 204, Taxation of the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, to add new article IX -- Volunteer
Firefighters and Ambulance Workers Exemption, which upon adoption becomes
Local Law No. 2 of 2023.
DISCUSSION
Village Manager Healy advised that since the Assessment Roll for 2023 has already
been filed this will go into effect in 2024. Village Manager Healy advised that we
have twenty-six members who are currently receiving the exemption, and based on
the information provided by EMS there are eight members who will now be eligible.
Mayor Pugh stated that he does not see this as compensation, but rather about
trying to make it possible to keep our firefighters and EMS volunteers in the Village.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
5. CORRESPONDENCE
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 3

a. Letter from Dan Lambe, Arbor Day Foundation Chief, congratulating
Croton-on-Hudson on earning the recognition as a “2022 Tree City
USA”.
b. Email from DJ Goldman, Croton Harmon UFSD Director of Athletics
dated March 6, 2023, requesting permission to hang senior posters for
the softball team at Firefighter’s Field.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees approved the request to hang senior posters for the
softball team at Firefighter’s Field. The motion was approved with a 50 vote.
c. Email from Seaver Wang dated March 10, 2023, regarding the 2023
Rotary Club’s October 1st car show.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Gallelli and seconded by Trustee Horowitz the
Board of Trustees approved the request from the Rotary Club to close
the daily parking lot for their annual car show to be held on October 1,
2023. The motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
d. Letter from the New York State Assistant
regarding the Village’s Fiscal Stress Scores.

Comptroller

dated

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202303/cefb74e7b24eec267937e07e6719a393515cf126.pdf
Village Manager Healy stated that he is pleased that both our Fiscal
Stress Score and Environmental Stress Score have gone down
significantly from last year.
Trustee Horowitz asked Village
Environmental Stress Score.

Manager

Healy

to

explain

the

Village Manager Healy explained that he believes this has to do with
climate change and the fact that we are located on the River and that
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 4

we relocated our DPW garage out of the flood-plain which was
considered a big risk for the Village.
Trustee Simon stated that the Fiscal Stress seems to mirror the
stresses the Village had during the Covid years.
Village Manager Healy stated that he believes the combination of
reducing our debt and the fact that our Non-Tax Revenues continue to
go back to where they were pre-Covid has contributed to this
reduction.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none
7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution 49 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote:
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC, to establish a business office and small
rectification operation at 1 Croton Point Avenue, and
WHEREAS this action is a Type II action under the New York State Environmental
Quality Review Act, which does not require an environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers
the special permit application to the Planning Board for a recommendation back to
the Village Board of Trustees, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby directs the Village Clerk
to notify the Westchester County Planning Department of this application in
accordance with law.
Resolution 50 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 5

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING TAX CERTIORARI SETTLEMENT WITH PETITIONER 8
SUNSET TRAIL, LLC. - 68.17-001-35
WHEREAS petitions have been filed by the party above challenging real property tax
assessments on the Village’s assessment roll, and
WHEREAS, the petitioner’s court challenge is now pending in Supreme Court,
Westchester County, and
WHEREAS the Village and petitioner have reached a mutually agreeable resolution
and the cost to the Village based on the reductions in assessments is ±$1,079.30,
and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees has had an opportunity to review this matter and
has been satisfied that the proposed settlement is just, reasonable and in the
interest of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby authorizes the Village Attorney to execute and sign the
attached Consent Order & Judgment, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
payment to the petitioner as outlined in the Consent Order & Judgment, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the payment of $1,079.30 shall be charged to
A1960.4000 – Refunds on real property.
Resolution 51 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS New York State Executive Law § 381 directs that each local government
is responsible for administration and enforcement of the New York State Uniform
Fire Prevention and Building Code (the Uniform Code) and the State Energy
Conservation Construction Code (the Energy Code) with respect to buildings located
within the local government, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to revise Chapter 86, Building
Construction Code, of the Village Code to ensure compliance with the minimum
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 6

standards for administration and enforcement of the Uniform Code and Energy
Code, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing for April 10, 2023, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 3 of 2023 to amend Chapter 86, Building Construction, of the Village
Code to provide for the administration and enforcement of the New York State Uniform
Fire Prevention and Building Code.
Resolution 52 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Section 230-48.1 of
the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code to prohibit the construction of Tier 3 solar
systems on steep slopes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 4 of 2023 which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village has completed a Part 1 of a Short Environmental Assessment
Form (EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF),
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is an Unlisted
Action.
2. The Village Board hereby declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes in connection with the Proposed Action.
3. The Village Board hereby issues the EAF and CAF which it has before it in
connection with the Proposed Action.
4. The Village Board hereby refers to the Village Planning Board the Draft
Law for a report back to the Village Board in accordance with Village law.
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 7

5. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the
Village Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the
Village Board in accordance with Village Law.
6. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF the
Westchester County Planning Board for review in accordance with law.
7. The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations
and notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules
a Public Hearing for April 10, 2023, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 4 of 2023 to amend Section 230-48.1 of the Zoning Chapter of the
Village Code to prohibit the construction of Tier 3 solar systems on steep slopes.
Resolution 53 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to add a new Chapter to the
Village Code to permit and set forth procedures for videoconferencing by a public
body, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 5 of 2023 which has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing for April 24, 2023, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 5 of 2023 to add a new Chapter to the Village Code to permit and
set forth procedures for videoconferencing by a public body.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that this law was based on the law that was
adopted by the State Legislature last year, there still must be a quorum in person at the
meeting. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that it is not intended to cover all
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 8

circumstances but rather for extraordinary circumstances and the Village will need to
adopt a Policy to go along with this law for when and how it can be done.
Village Manager Healy advised that according to the “Committee on Open Government”,
extraordinary circumstances fall under disability, illness, caregiving responsibilities, or
any other significant or unexpected factor or event which precludes a member’s physical
attendance, this law only applies to Village, Planning, and Zoning Board members as well
as Water Control Commission members.
Resolution 54 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS a retaining wall currently exists on the lower side of Grand Street along
the properties of 25 Grand Street and 33 Grand Street, and
WHEREAS the wall is in need of replacement as it contains cracks and a portion of it
is leaning towards the street, and
WHEREAS Westchester County, in cooperation and agreement with the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, has been awarded CDBG funding in the amount of $59,076 for
the replacement of the retaining wall along lower Grand Street, and
WHEREAS Ronald Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer, has recommended that the
Village move forward with MGM Burbon, LLC of Amawalk, New York, for engineering
services related to the design and construction of a new retaining wall on lower
Grand Street, and
WHEREAS MGM Burbon, LLC has submitted a proposal for such work at a cost not
to exceed $26,000,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to
execute agreements with MGM Burbon, LLC for engineering services in an amount
not to exceed $26,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for these services is available in the
following account: H5110.2106.23439.
Resolution 55 of 2023
8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 9

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on February 9, 2023, the Village issued RFP 02-2023 for Stenographic
Services in the Justice Court, and
WHEREAS proposals were due on March 9, 2023, and
WHEREAS one submission was received from All County Captions of Thornwood,
New York, in the amount of $200 per week, or an annual cost of $10,400, and
WHEREAS the Village Manager has reviewed the proposal and provided references,
and recommends that the contract for stenographic work be awarded to All County
Captions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to award the contract for stenographic work to All County Captions at an annual
cost of $10,400.
Resolution 56 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson
New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Sportswear Proposal # 01-2023 was sent out and three proposals were
received and opened on March 2, 2023, and
WHEREAS the three companies that submitted proposals were Empire Printing LLC
of Springfield, MO in the amount of $3,075.72; Tiger Line Embroidery of Croton-onHudson in the amount of $3,840.54; and Kiefer Aquatics of Bloomington, IL in the
amount of $5,088, and
WHEREAS the Recreation Superintendent has reviewed each proposal and
recommended that the contract be awarded to Empire Printing LLC in the amount of
$3,075.72,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to award the contract for sportswear to Empire Printing LLC of Springfield, MO in
the amount of $3,075.72.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 10

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Nicholson asked if the Village could use a local company rather than the
lowest bidder.
Village Manager Healy explained that this was an RFP not a competitive bid and we
do not have to go with the lowest bidder. Village Manager Healy stated that the
Village does work with many local businesses and a vast majority of our purchases
do not go out to bid, we either order them off State Contract or we go right to the
source and purchase them as long as they are under the required thresholds and
many of these companies are in Croton.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she understands the desire to go with a local company
but feels that we would be setting a precedent by not going with the lowest bidder.
Attorney Whitehead stated that even though this was not a formal bidding process,
the Board has a fiduciary responsibility to the taxpayers since these are public
funds that are being spent.
Trustee Nicholson stated that she believes there are certain circumstances where
using local businesses should be what we are doing and is not that concerned about
setting a precedent.
Mayor Pugh stated that local sources are important but there are other factors to
take into consideration and it would be a good idea for the Board to go over our
Purchasing Policy.
Resolution 57 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village desires to replace the lids on ten public garbage cans located in
the Upper Village, as they are rusted and damaged, and
WHEREAS The Park Catalog of West Palm Beach, FL has provided an estimate for
ten aluminum waste receptacle lids at a total cost of $1,352.83, and
WHEREAS total funding for these expenses was not included in the 2022-2023
General Fund Budget,
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 11

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to transfer $1,352.83 from Contingency Account
A1990.4000 to the following account:
A8160.4200

Refuse Collection–Supplies

$1,352.83

Resolution 58 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS since 1981, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has published a Village
Newsletter for residents addressing various topics of interest, and
WHEREAS the newsletter is currently published once a month and emailed to
approximately 3,000 contacts, and
WHEREAS the Village desires to upgrade and enhance the digital version of the
newsletter and other public outreach campaigns, and
WHEREAS, Constant Contact, Inc. of Brookline, MA, has provided a contract for an
Email & Digital Marketing Plan at a cost of $462 per year; and
WHEREAS total funding for these expenses was not included in the 2022-2023
General Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to transfer $462 from Contingency Account
A1990.4000 to the following account:
A 6410.4000 Publicity – Contractual

$462

Resolution 59 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village’s labor counsel costs have been higher than anticipated, and

11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 12

WHEREAS total funding for these expenses was not included in the 2022-2023
General Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to transfer $12,000 from Contingency Account
A1990.4000 to the following account:
A1420.4010

Law–Contractual Legal

$12,000

8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on February 22,
2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on March 6, 2023, was made by Trustee Nicholson. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Work Session held on
March 13, 2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson stated that over the last couple of weeks the Lot A
Committee has met, and they look forward to meeting again in April.
Trustee Simon advised that the bird houses have arrived, he looks
forward to their installation throughout the Village and thanked the Rotary
for their assistance, on March 15th he attended a meeting sponsored by
Westchester County on Tourism, March 15th he met with the Bicycle and
Pedestrian Committee, wherein they discussed the Complete Streets
Policy and a number of sidewalk projects, prior to the Board meeting this
evening we met with members of the Croton business community as well
as the Croton Business Council to discuss their participation in our
Downtown Improvement Grant application.

12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 13

Trustee Gallelli reminded the community that the Police Advisory
Committee’s survey is still active till the end of the month, it is available
on-line
and
encouraged
residents
to
complete
the
survey.
(https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/police-department/webforms/2023community-survey-safety-and-law-enforcement,
on April
14th
the
Recreation Department will be holding a Spring Family Fun Day at
Vassallo Park and wished everyone a happy Spring.
Trustee Horowitz advised that Earth Day will be held on April 29th,
Summerfest June 4th which will include a parade in celebration of Croton’s
125th Anniversary, anyone interested in participating in the parade can
reach
out
to
croton125anniversary@gmail.com,
the
Recreation
Department is now accepting applications on line, canoe and kayak
reservations are open, the second session of an English Conversation will
be held on March 28th at the Croton Library, more information is available
online:
https://www.crotonfreelibrary.org/event/hora-de-conversacionen-ingles-english-conversation-hour-2.
Mayor Pugh asked for the approval of the appointment of Scott Sullivan to
the Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee and Franki Leon to the Police
Advisory Council.
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the
Board of Trustees approved the appointment of Scott Sullivan to the
Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee and Franki Leon to the Police Advisory
Council. The motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Mayor Pugh congratulated the Diversity and Inclusion Committee on their
first English Conversation class and wished his mother-in-law a very
happy birthday.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Tentative Village Budget was filed
today and can be viewed on line: https://www.crotononhudsonny.gov/village-treasurer/pages/tentative-budget-fiscal-year-2023-2024.
Village Manager Healy stated that he is pleased that the tax rate is slated
to remain flat from last year but noted that some residents may see an
increase if they had made improvements to their home which may have
increased their assessed valuation, a presentation on the 2023-24 Budget
will be made next Monday.
13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 20, 2023
Page 14

Village Manager Healy advised that “wayfinding” signs have arrived and
will be installed in the next few days, the Justice Court received a grant
from the Justice Court Assistance Program in the amount of $26,050 to
replace the air conditioning in the court, received notice from the New
York State Department of State that the LWRP update is going for its
sixty-day review on April 5th, we will have to wait sixty days from that
date before we can move forward assuming we do not receive any
comments from any of the involved agencies, the Little League parade is
scheduled for April 15th at 10:00am, on March 29th at noon, the Vietnam
Veterans ceremony will be held at the Buchanan Municipal building.
Village Treasurer Tucker stated that in light of what has been going on in
the banking industry, Mayor Pugh asked that he explain how Village funds
are handled. Village Treasurer Tucker explained that the Village’s 18.26
million dollars are in three different depositories and, as a municipality,
those funds are collateralized whether they are in a bank or any other
type of depository, of the 18.26 million dollars, $952,000 are FDIC
insured and the balance (17.31 million dollars) is collateralized in other
ways, and he is very confident that the Village’s funds are safe and
secure.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting
adjourned at 8:27pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

14

