Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Draft Minutes of Water Control Commission
Wednesday, February 15, 2022
PRESENT: Mr. Stuart Greenbaum
Mr. Leo Wiegman
Mr. William Pfrang
Mr. Rich Wetherbee
ABSENT:

Mr. Mark Goldfarb

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Dan O’Connor, Village Engineer
Mr. Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Ms. Sherry Horowitz, Village Board Member

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Greenbaum called the Water Control Commission meeting to order at 7:02 p.m.

2. OLD BUSINESS:
a) Hudson National Golf Club—40 Arrowcrest Drive –Wetlands Permit Application for site
improvements including replacing the existing golf course irrigation system and repairs to greens and
bunkers of which will occur in the 120 ft. wetland/watercourse buffer.
Chairman Greenbaum opened the meeting by stating that the WCC had received several correspondences
from residents that had been previously reviewed. Chairman Greenbaum stated that some of the issues
addressed in the correspondences were not germane to the particular wetland permit request being made
by HNGC. However, Chairman Greenbaum shared there were other issues raised in the correspondences
from residents regarding additional permits that may be required by HNGC to attain and as a courtesy,
Mr. Greenbaum asked Mr. Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer to address the questions regarding these
additional permits.
Chairman Greenbaum asked Mr. O’Connor how the permit issues will be rolled out.
Mr. O’Connor responded stating that at the last WCC meeting held on December 7, 2022 the applicants
(HNGC), gave a presentation providing a description of the proposed work at the club for the irrigation
system replacement and refurbishment of the bunkers and greens. Mr. O’Connor added that the residents
were present at that meeting to express their concerns to the Board regarding the proposed work at
HNGC. Mr. O’Connor then stated that at the last WCC meeting held on February 2, 2023, the Board
requested that staff prepare a Draft Resolution for the Board to consider approving the wetland permit for
HNGC. Mr. O’Connor stated that the permit would be for the work in the wetland buffer zones noting
however, there is no work proposed in the wetland areas themselves. Mr. O’Connor added that there are
bridges over the wetlands and that the pipe will be attached to the bridges so that there is no disturbance
1

or impact to the wetlands themselves but the buffer zone will be disturbed. Although, Mr. O’Connor
noted that these buffer zones are not natural buffer zones but rather fairways and greens that are parts of
the golf course.
Mr. O’Connor then stated that the Board will consider the wetland permit for the activity in the wetland
buffer zone and then if the wetland permit is issued, a Fill & Excavation Permit will be required for
excavation in the areas outside of the buffer zones. Mr. O’Connor noted that most of the work to be done
on the course is outside of the buffer zone. Mr. O’Connor added that the Fill & Excavation permit is an
administrative permit issued by the Village Engineer (himself). Mr. O’Connor shared that there is an
additional permit in conjunction with (part of) the fill permit which is the requirement of the approval of
the Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). Mr. O’Connor stated the SWPPP is a plan that
looks at possible impacts from erosion and sediment run off from the site and how to control those
potential issues on the site through various methods some of which are proposed in the state manual.
Mr. O’Connor then shared that at the meeting held on Monday, February 12, 2023, the Village Board
approved the hiring of an independent consultant specific to the SWPPP for HNGC. Mr. O’Connor
shared that the independent consultant, DTS Provident, will assist him (the Village Engineer) in the
review of the plan and they will then provide comments to HNGC’s engineer who will make the
necessary revisions so that the SWPPP so that it can be approved.
Mr. O’Connor added that if at the present meeting, the WCC approved the Wetland permit then himself
and DTS Provident will be working with HNGC’s engineer to get the Excavation & Fill permit
application submitted and to the get the SWPPP approved as well (it was noted that HNGC already
submitted the SWPPP and the SWPPP will be sent to DTS Provident to be reviewed.
Mr. O’Connor summarized and concluded that the SWPPP and Excavation & Fill Permits are subsequent
permits to the wetland permit that the WCC is authorized to issue. Mr. O’Connor stated that it is a typical
approach to have multiple permits for one project and that it is common to have a sequence in attaining
such permits for one project.
Mr. O’Connor then stated that one of the conditions set forth in the resolution in order to authorize this
project is to have an independent consultant hired by the Village to review the SWPPP which was already
approved by the Village Board on Monday, February 12, 2023. A second condition in the resolution is to
also hire an additional independent consultant who will assist the Village in performing inspections at the
course while the work is ongoing. It was noted that some parts of the work are planned to begin in April
2023.
Chairman Greenbaum then asked Mr. O’Connor to bring the WCC up-to-date on the status of the work
that had been completed on the dams at the HNGC as per the NYS DEC because there had been some
issues with the dams that needed to be remedied.
Mr. O’Connor shared that the DEC made inspections of dams at named locations at the golf course in
January of last year as stated in a letter dated March 11th. The locations of these dams were at the top of
Prickly Pear Hill Rd, near the arboretum, a stone dam on the north side of the course. Mr. O’Connor
reported that dams were inspected by the DEC and there were some issues but they HNGC corrected
2

them and made the necessary repairs. Mr. O’Connor stated that he had been to the course to see the
repairs and described and verified the necessary repairs were made to the named dams. Mr. O’Connor
stated that HNGC had their own engineer, Weston & Sampson inspect the dams as well in December
2022 and reported that the dams are in good condition and require routine inspection as do all Village
dams.
Chairman Greenbaum thanked Mr. O’Connor for his comments. Mr. Greenbaum then addressed the
repeated question as to why the WCC is granting this permit. Mr. Greenbaum stated that the wetland
permit is before the Water Control Commission because they are the planning authority according to
Village law.
The Board and Village Attorney, Linda Whitehead discussed and reiterated that bringing in third party,
independent engineers to provide two separate scopes of work are to both protect the residents and the
Village.
Chairman Greenbaum then opened the meeting for public comment and there being no members of the
public present, the public meeting was closed. Furthermore, there was no comment from the applicant.
The draft resolution was then reviewed.
Mr. Greenbaum read the draft resolution allowed and the Board made some minor edits and notations
with wording for consistency. The Board then discussed the locations in which the wetland permit would
be displayed at the course. It was determined that the permit would be displayed in a public place near
the location of the work, possibly having an additional permit displayed near the arboretum.
With no additional comments regarding the Resolution, Chairman Greenbaum made a motion to approve
the Wetland Permit and Resolution as amended, seconded by Mr. Pfrang. All in favor. 4-0. Roll Call:
Chairman Greenbaum, yes, Mr. Pfrang, yes, Mr. Wiegman, yes, Mr. Wetherbee, yes (Mr. Goldfarb,
absent).
3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Mr. Greenbaum made a motion to approve the minutes as amended of the February 2, 2023
meeting seconded by Mr. Wiegman. All in Favor.

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business before the Water Control Commission, the meeting was duly
adjourned at 7:37 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted By,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Water Control Commission
3

