WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Thursday, January 13th, 2023 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT Ms. Ann Galelli, Chairperson lV] ePROvE)
4/>3

Mr. Stuart Greenbaum (Absent)
Mr. Len Simon
Mr. Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
Allie Fauser — Cuddy & Feder on Speaker Phone

1) CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of January 12th, 2023 to order at 4:37
pm.

2) REFERRALS

a) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency Review for a Telecommunications special permit application from Dish
Wireless, LLC to collocate new transmission equipment on the existing wireless tower and
equipment at the base of the tower within the existing base station.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.

DISH is a new wireless carrier wants to collocate at Veteran’s Plaza on the tower recently vacated by
Sprint. Sprint will leave their platform and DISH will bring in a new antenna. Allie Fauser stated that DISH
will occupy at the 85-foot level of the tower.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes.

WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and believed that there were no policies that were applicable to this
referral, as noted in the memo attached.

Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency.

MOTION: Leo Weigman made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Len Simon,
and the motion carried, by a vote of 3 — 0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Leo Weigman made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting September 12th, 2022,
seconded by Len Simon, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:51 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Karen Stapleton

Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

“*Minutes Approved 4/4/23 by a vote of 3-0. AG, LS and LW voting yes. SK abstained as he was not
present at the meeting***

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


Chairman

ANN GALLELLI
Members
STUART GREENBAUM
LEN SIMON
Village of Croton-on-Hudson LEO WEIGMAN
Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD
Waterfront Advisory Committee Village Engineer
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building DANIEL O'CONNOR, PE.
One Van Wyck Street Secretary
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501 KAREN STAPLETON
TO: Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees
FROM: Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee
RE: Referral from Village Board for LWRP Consistency Review for a Telecommunications

Special Permit application from DISH Wireless, LLC to collocate new transmission
Equipment on the existing wireless tower and equipment at the base of the tower
Within the existing base station.

DATE: January 17th, 2023

On January 12th, 2023, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency
with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above.

There are no changes that were noted in the Coastal Assessment Form.

The WAC evaluated this referral for consistency in accordance with the LWRP policy standards
and conditions set forth in section 225-6(J) of the Village Code, which are further explained and
described in Section Ill of the LWRP. The WAC members reviewed the policies in the LWRP
and believe that there are no policies that are applicable to this referral.

The WAC believes that the proposed application will not have any potentially significant adverse
impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards and conditions.
Because there are no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to
consider alternative actions or mitigation measures.

Since there is nothing in the application that is inconsistent, the WAC makes a recommendation
of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783 a www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790
