MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Mar. 26, 2023 – via zoom
Attending Members (and affiliations):
Lindsay Audin (CSC Coordinator)
Ashley Clemente
Niall Kelleher (Community Gardens)
Brian Pugh (Mayor of Croton)
Joel Gingold (CCoHOPE Indivisible)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
David Goldman

Absent:
Jon Katz PE [at engineering expo]
Bernie Yozwiak (Care for Creation Ministry)
Dan Columbini PE

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): none
Announcements: none
- Earth Day table staffing: April 29 (a Saturday) is Croton’s Earth Day at Senasqua
Park, running from 10 AM to 4 PM. As last year, CAC will give us the covered picnic
table just inside the entrance. Members were polled to see which could take 2-hour
stints. Ashley and Joel agreed to take the 10-noon slot, Len and Lindsay will take
noon-2, Bernie will take 2-4 with a 2nd person TBD.
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- Food Scrap Recycling Program
With 11 drop-off days now completed, we’re about halfway through the 6-month pilot
program (13 drop-off days to go). On average, ~1 ton of scraps is dropped off every 6
weeks. See Dan’s tracking chart below.
The Feb. 2023 Village newsletter article on the program may be viewed at
https://www.crotononhudsonny.gov/sites/g/files/vyhlif441/f/uploads/full_february_2023_newsletter.pdf
The 3/25 photo op was successful.
Over 20 people showed up, despite
intermittent rain. Each got 2 rolls of
compostable bags as a “thank you”.
Because bags are being consumed
faster than expected, DPW secured
(3/14) 4 more cases (100 rolls, 2000
bags). We will distribute some to
needy scrappers on Earth Day.

1

To continue the program after June 24, Lindsay assembled (at Len’s direction) an
annual budget that came to about $8K. On 3/16, Bryan Healy OKed it for inclusion in
the Village’s upcoming budget discussions. It would cover up to 100 households, with
each buying its own bags, scrap caddies, storage bins, etc.
Niall asked about reviving a past program to encourage backyard composting by
providing composters. He would seek involvement among the 40 households that did
not get into our pilot program. Lindsay agreed to give access to the 40 [and
subsequently drafted for Niall’s review a program doc and process to do so].
- NYSERDA CEC-sponsored projects
Washington firehouse solar rooftop: it was featured in the Village’s March newsletter
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/newsletters/pages/march-2023-newsletter. That
issue also updated readers on construction of the train station canopies. Due to bad
weather, the 3/11 ribbon cutting was moved to 10 AM, Saturday, 4/22 (national Earth
Day). On 2/14, Croton got Con Ed’s Permission-To-Operate (PTO) letter, at which
time the firehouse electric account began receiving solar kWh credits. On 3/24, all
invoices and other grant-related paperwork was submitted to NYSERDA. Of the
$70,000 grant for the work, the project used $65,748, leaving a credit of $4,252.
Lindsay asked NYSERDA how we may apply it to another project, e.g., a heat pump
water heater (HPWH) in the Municipal Building.
Firehouse heat pump work: Staged thermostatic controls will integrate the existing
heat pumps to cut oil use by the building’s hydronic system. Lindsay summarized
Jon’s report (appended to these minutes) on an equipment issue and Jon’s workaround to help Carey & Walsh proceed with the installation. Once the controls are
commissioned, Lindsay will file for another 700 points under NYSERDA’s Clean
Energy Community (CEC) program, making Croton the leading CEC in the State.
- Other Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Drilling for footings continues at the south end of the parking
lot. The main issue now is the projected cost (~$2M) of the storm water management
system (SWMS). DPW is considering handling most of it with its own resources. About
$887K of that cost is for gaskets and gutters that attach to the solar panels and carport
structure and would need to be installed by SolSystems. Brian indicated that the
Village would handle the remaining ~$1.1M upfront cost because that would yield
greater net leasing revenue than if covered by SolSystems.
- EV/EVSE
We continue to wait on our ~$150K DEC grant application (submitted 9/7/22) for train
station EV chargers, installation, electrical infrastructure, and 2 years of free charging.

2

The NYSERDA firehouse deal was revised to release extra funds (~$20K) to instead
go toward an F-150 Lightning EV truck. However, Frank Balbi said (3/21): “I can’t get a
quote for the EV F-150 through our fleet supplier. The ordering window is closed, and
are not taking additional orders until the new vehicles are available”. NYSERDA was
asked for an alternative way to provide an acceptable quote, e.g., through an online
car broker such as TrueCar. If not, another sedan EV may instead be considered.
- Funding Sources/Issues
Last week, Len and Lindsay attended webinars on BIL funding of EV chargers and
their infrastructure. Len summarized its long-awaited Notice Of Funding Opportunity
(NOFO). He reviewed issues that may impact getting a grant for more chargers at the
train station. If available, we would seek ~$100K to buy/install another 6 dual-port
chargers (their infrastructure would be covered by the DEC grant). However, the
minimum BIL community grant is $500K and is an 80/20 split, meaning Croton would
have to kick in $100K of Village funds. We discussed ways to increase an app to
$500K by adding other charger sites (e.g., our parks), but doing so would require timeconsuming design/development work. The deadline for submissions is 5/31. If before
then DEC denies our grant app, we could expand the present design to include extra
chargers to reach a ~$250K grant app. Len will chat with his DOT contacts to see if
such a smaller grant was viable.
Under the IRA, Investment Tax Credits (ITC) previously available only to profitmaking entities will became available to non-profits (including local governments) for
investments in renewable energy projects (e.g., solar) brought online after 12/31/22.
While the firehouse solar project was started before that date, it did not receive its
PTO until 2/14/23, making it eligible for the ITC. However, IRS has not yet issued the
necessary how-to guidance to file for it, and may not do so until later this year.
On 3/5, Lauren Brois of Sust. West. provided links to NYSERDA and Con Ed docs on
HP incentives that discussed issues on removing existing heating systems. Ashley’s
review found that only fossil-fueled heating sources (e.g., boilers, furnaces) – not
distribution systems (e.g., baseboards, ducts) – must be removed or permanently
disabled to secure the residential $8,000 maximum incentive. But Con Ed’s rules
involve detailed checklists for each situation, e.g., gas vs. oil, full vs. partial system,
etc. He agreed to develop an example based on his home to help us determine the
difficulty and costs posed by those rules. On 3/21, Brois verified that municipalities
receiving NYPA power could not get Con Ed HP incentives for their facilities.
Joel pointed out how prior HP promotional programs had flopped, and asked why we
should be pursuing another one now. We had previously concluded that the best HP
option to push locally was the swap-out of electric DHW heaters for HPWHs. Lindsay
responded that we need to assess the Con Ed HP incentive program to provide
guidance (even if it’s negative) to Croton households that may wish to pursue it.
- Other Reports

3

Citing the Bike-Pedestrian Committee’s 2021 Master Plan, Dave found ways for
Croton to claim extra credits in the Climate Smart Community (CSC) program. He
found information in the Plan that complies with new CSC actions related to biking and
walking. That could help us retain our Silver CSC status. An extensive discussion
followed regarding e-bikes and Croton becoming a “satellite” community to Ossining in
its e-bike sharing program (slated to start 10/23) funded by a $7M NYSERDA grant.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
The March issue of the River Journal had an article on solar installations in the County
that included a paragraph on our train station canopy system. To view it, enter “solar”
in the Search field at https://riverjournalonline.com/.
Mark Karell, a Mamaroneck energy consultant, posted a one-page blurb about our
firehouse project in his monthly ccesworld.com newsletter. Find it at
https://files.constantcontact.com/ebcbdf4f501/32f549de-df33-4b22-b704fe8cd870e998.pdf.
- New Business / Other Issues
No new business or issues were raised.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, April 23, at 10:30 AM via zoom

Jon’s 3/16/23 report on the firehouse heat pump controls issue
Providing you an update on Washington Firehouse controls project:
I called Greg Carey/C&W this morning, to find out what is current hold up on the work starting…
Apparently, his staffing issue is resolved, supply chain issue with Mitsubishi also resolved, and are now
ready to start the work - with the exception they were having a problem finding a thermostat that
would do all the features we specified.





The problem reported to me was that there is no off-the-shelf thermostat that has both
3-heat /3 cool stages – AND gives 3-speed manual control ;
After a little more research, I determined that Greg Carey seems correct, and the only
way to get all those features would be to go with a fully customizable thermostat
device, which is more of digital ‘controller’ and requires special software to program the
additional output for the manual fan controls - which is way overkill for this project
and will just make the user interface something no one in the firehouse is likely
accustomed to using, reducing our chances for successful control outcome.
I also do not want to recommend a specific product that the contractor is unfamiliar
with. We want them to use a product they are totally comfortable with and know how
to setup without many phone calls to tech support, etc. (I’ve seen this go the wrong

4

way). The thermostat selection was left up to the contractor intentionally for this
reason.


Therefore, I told Greg Carey to go ahead submit to us for review a proposed thermostat
(Honeywell FocusPro series was discussed) -- that has all the required features, except
for manual 3-fan speed control. The heat pumps fans will still adjust their speed
automatically (based on their internal temperature sensor), we just won’t have manual
override of L/M/H speed control. I think this is totally acceptable.



As a reminder, the feature we absolutely require is the 3-stages of heat
output. 1st stage - Heat Pump, 2nd stage heat pump, 3rd stage - hydronic heat from the
boiler zone.



I left it with Greg Carey to submit the Thermostat for review, I will review and approve
ASAP – and then he will order them hopefully have them by next week , and then C&W
to coordinate with the Village on a start and finish date.

5

