Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Monday, March 27, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:01pm and led everyone in
the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, claims numbered 22234292 through 22234384. The motion
was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$32,452.98
$302.29
$102.91
$6,926.06
$800.00

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Public Hearing #1
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider declaring a housing
emergency under the Emergency Tenant Protection Act (ETPA) and
expanding ETPA protections to all properties built before 1974 with six or
more housing units in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was made by
Trustee Gallelli. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that the Village currently has ETPA
regulations in effect for all buildings with fifty or more units that were
built prior to 1974, if this new law is adopted it would allow the Village to
include all buildings with six or more units that were built prior to 1974.
Village Manager Healy stated that a vacancy survey was undertaken of
the five buildings that would fall under this new law, the data indicates

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 2

that the Village has a vacancy rate of 2.3%, consistent with the
requirement of less than 5% to declare a housing emergency.
Address
Total Units
94 Grand Street
31
31 Old Post Road S.
81
51 Benedict Blvd.
6
83 Grand Street
6
74 Truesdale Dr.
7

Vacant Units
0
1
0
0
2

Comments:
Ron Napolitani, owner of 83 Grand Street, stated that when he purchased
the building in 2018, it needed a lot of maintenance, but Covid came and
during that time period many tenants were late paying their rent, short on
the amounts and in some cases never paid at all. Mr. Napolitani stated
that he believes it is too premature to rule out the effects of Covid and
coupled with a lot of development in the Village, the Board should not be
pushing this through at this time. Mr. Napolitani stated that it is very
costly to keep his building up, he supplies heat to each of his tenants, and
with the increases in the cost for water, insurance, and taxes it will not be
sustainable if this law goes through.
Sara Boyce, 140 Benedict Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked why a 2.3
percent vacancy is an emergency, who will cover the costs to administer
the program and determine the percentage increases, who serves on the
Rent Guidelines Board and is that a paid position, she did not see any
clause in the law that addresses evictions, it just indicates that it must be
an approved eviction notice and asked what that means. Ms. Boyce stated
that she believes there will be an expense for taxpayers but did not see
anything in the budget.
Tom Moore, 55 Bari Manor, Croton on Hudson, stated that he lives in one
of the buildings that are currently covered by ETPA regulations, his rent is
$1,600 a month and does not include heat. Mr. Moore stated that before
this program things were very bad, and it is reassuring to have these
regulations in place and happy that he lives under these rules.
A letter was read on behalf of Peter Feigenbaum expressing support for
the proposed law.
2

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 3

Theo Oshiro, 41 Morningside Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
strongly supports the expansion of the ETPA regulations, people who rent
in Croton should also be able to call Croton their home, he has spoken to
many renters in the community who have no protections and it is crucial
that our local government have a means to be able to step up for all
tenants.
Lewis Montana, 5 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
represents many Cooperatives and because of the increases in insurance,
taxes, and maintenance, Cooperative’s have seen their budgets balloon.
Mr. Montana stated that in 2019 a statewide Housing Security and Tenant
Protection Act was approved that favored tenants, and in 2019 a High
Rent/High Income Deregulation Program that allowed landlords to
deregulate a tenant if they earned $200,000 over a two-year period was
eliminated as well. Mr. Montana stated that the Manhattan Institute in
2020 came out with a comprehensive study that indicated that once
stabilization laws were enacted, while good in theory, in the long run it
diminished the quality of the housing stock.
Daniel Finger, from the Law Firm of Finger and Finger, stated that he
represents landlords of three of the smaller properties and asked that the
Board look at this from the perspective of a landlord and not just the
tenant. Mr. Finger said that while he understands that landlords have an
objective that is financial, landlords also have a vested interest in not only
seeing their properties kept up but seeing the benefit to the community.
Mr. Finger stated that Covid did not just impact tenants, it impacted
landlords with increases in oil, utilities and insurance and if this is truly
the goal to improve the quality and quantity of the housing stock, this is
not the way to do it, ETPA regulations will make it harder and harder to
find affordable apartments because tenants are more likely to stay in the
units longer thereby shrinking the inventory.
Mike Norton, owner of 72 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that
he and his partners closed on this property in 2020 at the height of Covid,
they spent a lot of money to bring the property back to where it was, but
all of the seven units still need new kitchens, bathrooms, flooring, as well
as air-conditioning. Mr. Norton stated that the most important thing to
owning rental properties is to keep their tenants happy, there are good
3

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 4

landlords and bad landlords, and he and his partners are one of the good
landlords.
Kathleen Carlise, 44 Bari Manor, Croton on Hudson, stated that she has
been very fortunate to live in an ETPA building, if she didn’t, she would
probably have to leave Croton. Ms. Carlise stated that she has lived in the
Bari Manor development for twenty-seven years, and she is sure there are
many people just like her who are hard-working, who are responsible and
want to pay their rent on time, but who also need these protections.
Nance Shatzkin, 132 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated that
she went back to read comments she made when ETPA was passed for
the Bari Manor development, and she argues tonight as she did back then
that it makes sense to take everything that ETPA offers. Ms. Shatzkin
stated that landlords believe that they should not have restrictions
because they are having a difficult time because of the way prices are
going up, but tenants are also having a tough time. Ms. Shatzkin stated
that ETPA has been operating for several decades and is based on reality
and we have seen that life for the tenants of Bari Manor improved
dramatically after we took this action. Ms. Shatzkin stated that there are
very few tools that a municipality has to stand up for tenants and because
of that she strongly supports this.
Nick Perry, owner of 51 Benedict Blvd, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
grew up in Croton, his father along with a neighbor started the Croton
Housing Network in the 1980’s in order to create affordable housing so he
understands the need for affordable housing. Mr. Perry stated that ten
years ago they invested in a rent stabilized building in Hastings, they
were naïve because they didn’t know that rent increases would lag behind
the cost of running the building, didn’t know that tenants could pass their
lease to family members so it would never be vacant and we certainly did
not know that you could not recoup renovations costs, EPTA only allows
you to recoup up to $15,000 over thirteen years, it is not simply unfair, it
is not doable when you are spending hundreds of thousands to improve
your property. Mr. Perry stated that landlords do not choose to let their
properties deteriorate, they are forced to and the way this law is written
he defies anyone, while holding a mortgage, to make any money on a sixunit ETPA property. Mr. Perry stated that in 2018 the Croton Board talked
4

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 5

about doing this and given his experience in Hastings he was very
concerned, but during meetings with the ETPA and the Board he was led
to believe that the threshold would be higher than six units because they
saw the potential danger for us, and because of that determination they
went ahead and purchased 51 Benedict Blvd. Mr. Perry stated that since
that time they have spent thousands of dollars to improve the building,
they have never evicted a single tenant, many are long standing tenants
who pay below market rents and during the pandemic we worked with all
of our tenants. Mr. Perry stated that we are not a large corporation, this is
a small six-unit house, and the Board needs to protect us as well.
Kristen Perry stated that she is devasted by the Board’s lack of kindness,
when this law was enacted in 1974 it was aimed at large corporate
landlords, and while well meaning, it has had negative unintended
impacts for both tenants and landlords. Ms. Perry stated that if this law is
enacted, rents are no longer set by the market but are set by the State
and compares this to owning a bakery and the State coming in and saying
that you can only charge fifty cents for a donut, even if it costs a dollar to
make that donut. Ms. Perry stated that if this goes into effect, they will
no longer have the resources to improve the building, her tenants will
suffer, and she will suffer as well.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed the housing
crises in 2009 and how the government backed Federal mortgages, but
he does not believe there is a mechanism in place to help landlords, last
year the Board had to put an additional $40,000 in the budget for fuel
costs and raise water rents, yet landlords cannot recoup their additional
costs. Mr. Riely said that he cannot see anyone on this Board, after
hearing what these small landlords have said, move forward on this
proposed law.
Helen Murray, 36 Bari Manor, Croton on Hudson, stated that before ETPA
was passed her landlord was raising rents rapidly, since then they’ve had
reasonable increases, and while she understands that some people are
paying less than market value, there are also people that are paying
market value rents.
Tara Dolan, Bari Manor resident, stated that in 2003 she supported the
ETPA because the new owners were going to raise rents across the board,
5

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 6

this was passed to protect older residents who live on fixed incomes and
would not be able to afford to continue to live in Croton. Ms. Dolan stated
that ETPA works for larger developments, she cannot speak for smaller
apartment units, and feels for the owners that spoke this evening.
Larry Murray, 36 Bari Manor, Croton on Hudson, stated that many people
living in apartments cannot buy homes and the statement that people
would stay in these apartments is a good thing, he grew up in Croton,
raised his children in Croton and because of ETPA he has been able to
stay in Croton and many of our first responders would not be able to stay
in Croton if we didn’t have ETPA regulations.
WRITTEN COMMENTS:
Dylan Basescu, 65 Radnor Avenue, Croton on Hudson, applauds the Board
for considering greater protections for tenants, he feels that this will help
to make the Village more affordable for renters.
Greg Maher, 44 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that the current
vacancy rate of 2.3 percent is indicative of a village-wide and regional
problem that is getting worse every year and supports the proposed
resolution to expand ETPA regulations.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Mayor Pugh asked Village Manager Healy
administrative questions that were raised.

to

address

some

of

the

Village Manager Healy explained that the ETPA fee of $20.00 per apartment
is covered by the landlord and the Village only acts as a pass-through, and
there is no cost to the Village. Village Manager Healy advised that the Rent
Guideline Board is a function at the County level, and they are the ones that
set the rent increases.
Mayor Pugh stated that because Croton’s vacancy rate is below the five
percent, it indicates that the market is not functioning in the way it was
intended and while the Village has been working very diligently in addressing
the shortage of affordable housing in Croton, those units are not on line at
6

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 7

this time and coupled with the fact that tenants do not have choices and
consequently landlords have a disproportionate power over them he believes
that the expansion of ETPA is warranted.
Trustee Simon stated that when he joined the Board, ETPA only applied to
Bari Manor and believes that everyone who rents in Croton should have those
same kinds of protections. Trustee Simon added that ETPA does not have to
be permanent and if in the future the Board sees changes in the vacancy rate
and determines that it is no longer necessary, it can be reviewed and is
something that we should look at on a regular basis.
Trustee Gallelli stated that a number of years ago, there was a proposal to do
essentially what we are looking at this evening, but at that time the Board
did not move forward. Trustee Gallelli stated that many other communities in
Westchester County have adopted ETPA regulations for buildings with six
units and because of the circumstances that accumulated since we last
reviewed this, and the fact that other municipalities have done this without
the harm we have heard about this evening, she is inclined to try this.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she agrees with Trustee Simon that we need to
carefully keep an eye on it and if we see changes in the vacancy rate, she is
very open to making changes to the law.
Trustee Nicholson stated that she feels for the landlords who spoke this
evening, and to see the people behind these numbers is very heartfelt, four
out of the six landlords have stated that this will cause them irreversible
damage which does not seem fair, but she also feels for the tenants who are
also in a vulnerable spot. Trustee Nicholson stated that as a Board we want
to protect all our residents, and we have heard that there are certain
buildings on this list where renters did receive substantial rent increases and
were forced to leave and hopes that we can come to a better solution before
putting this into effect.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she has some of the same feelings as Trustee
Nicholson, it seems like a very difficult situation to own a building and to
want to keep it in great shape and be responsive to the tenants, but
financially it is really difficult, and we need to take this into consideration as
well as protecting tenants. Trustee Horowitz stated that we all want the same
thing but maybe there are other tools in the toolbox to address this.
7

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 8

Mayor Pugh stated that he understands the issue of landlords not being able
to recoup their expenses to improve their buildings, but this was one of the
changes that was made in 2019, and we are constrained by State law, if he
was writing the law he does not know if he would have capped it at $15,000.
Resolution 60 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York with a 4-1 vote, with Trustee Nicholson voting Nay.
WHEREAS the New York State Emergency Tenant Protection Act of 1974 (ETPA)
enables municipalities in New York State to opt-in to rent stabilization and other
tenant protections predicated on a continuing housing emergency constituting of a
vacancy rate of less than 5%, and
WHEREAS in October of 2022, the Village conducted a survey of all residential
properties with six or more units which were built before 1974 to determine the
current vacancy rate in Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS the survey results indicated that the Village has a current vacancy rate of
2.3%, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson held a Public
Hearing on March 27, 2023, to consider whether an emergency exists as to any
class of housing accommodations in said Village of Croton-on-Hudson as authorized
by Section 8629 of the Unconsolidated Laws of the State of New York, and
WHEREAS the Public Hearing on March 27, 2023, was also held to consider whether
the provisions of the Emergency Tenant Protection Act of 1974 should be invoked in
regard to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS on the basis of the supply of housing accommodations, the condition of
such accommodations and the need for regulating and controlling residential rents
within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, this Board has found that the vacancy rate
for rental housing accommodations within the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is not in
excess of 5%,

8

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 9

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that on the basis of the foregoing, this Board
hereby declares that an emergency exists and declares an emergency as to all the
housing accommodations with six (6) or more housing units, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that effective upon adoption of this resolution the
provisions of the Emergency Tenant Protection Act of 1974 as amended shall apply
to all residential accommodations in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in buildings or
complexes containing six (6) or more dwelling units, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the provisions of this resolution shall continue in
force and effect until the Board of Trustees shall determine that the conditions of an
emergency as defined by the Act shall no longer exist, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the State Division of Housing and Community
Renewal is the sole administrative agency to administer the regulation of residential
rents as provided in the Emergency Tenant Protection Act of 1974, as amended to
date, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a certified copy of this resolution shall be forwarded
to the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal indicating that the
effective date of this resolution is March 27, 2023, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees directs the Village Manager to
take all other steps necessary to secure enforcement of this resolution.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon said that he would like to propose that the Village establish a
mechanism in a formalized way to work with landlords on an ongoing basis as an
early warning system for potential problems and a source of any potential
improvements in the vacancy rates and that this be put on a future work session.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she endorses Trustee Simon’s suggestion that we find
some mechanism for oversight.
Public Hearing #2
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of the 20232024 Tentative Village Budget was made by Trustee Simon. The motion
was seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 10

Link to Tentative Budget:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/village-treasurer/pages/tentativebudget-fiscal-year-2023-2024
Link to Budget Presentation:
https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fpla
y.champds.com%2FATT%2Fcrotononhudsonny%2F202303%2Fef735001887a790eab99993d7e158c632cc7e03a.ppt&wdOrigin=BR
OWSELINK
Link to the entire Budget Presentation:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/843
Trustee Simon stated that using the General Fund Balance to supplement
our other revenues is the responsible thing to do, if we didn’t then we
would have this bulging Fund Balance, and the best thing that we can do
is to put it back into the Budget to help our taxpayers.
Village Manager Healy explained that our Fund Balance is where it should
be as per the standards set by the New York State Comptroller’s Office.
Village Manager Healy stated that this Budget also reflects the very hard
work over the past eight years to reduce our debt by almost 7 million
dollars while still being able to accomplish many capital projects over the
past eight years.
Mayor Pugh highlighted some of those projects; completion of the River
Walk at Elliott Way, Croton Point Avenue rehabilitation, purchase of new
equipment for our first responders, water main relining that had a direct
effect of improving water quality, and installation of electric charging
stations. Mayor Pugh stated that the Fund Balance is the product of a
very conscientious and deliberate public policy over a number of years,
but the Village continues to actively work on expanding the tax base to
increase our non-property tax revenues and diversify our sources of
income to continue to help our taxpayers.
Trustee Gallelli stated that this presentation has given us a good basis for
our upcoming Budget work sessions.
10

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 11

Public Comments
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, objected to the School
District purchasing electric school buses, and suggested combining the
Village’s mechanical operations with the School District to help reduce
costs, asked if the Village had to pay for safety measures during the
installation of Con-Edison gas lines.
Village Manager Healy advised that Con-Edison reimbursed the Village for
all costs related to safety measures during the installation of their gas
lines.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the public hearing was made by Trustee Gallelli. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Notice from the New York State Public Service Commission of a public
hearing concerning a joint proposal to change the electric and gas
delivery rates and practices of Con Edison.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202303/87c13e18a9be1a8a4b647651a1f8686e5639e603.pdf
b. Letter from the State of New York Unified Court System dated
February 22, 2023, regarding the 2022-23 cycle of the Justice Court
Assistance Program (JCAP).
c. Notice from the Village of Buchanan regarding National Vietnam War
Veterans Day, ceremony will take place this Wednesday, at 12:00
noon.
d. Email from John Munson dated March 18, 2023, regarding the Little
League Opening Day Parade.
Resolution:

11

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 12

On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees approved the request to hold the Little League
opening day parade on Saturday, April 15th at 10:00am. The motion
was approved with a 5-0 vote.
e. Letter from Barclay Damon, LLC dated March 3, 2023, regarding the
application of New York Power Authority and Clean Path New York LLC
for a Certificate of Environmental Compatibility.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202303/7487fb9fd3fdf75a1d30c457cfc7707883550102.pdf
Village Manager Healy explained that this is a high voltage
transmission line from Delhi New York that will run down the Hudson
River to New York City. Village Manager Healy explained that since
Haverstraw Bay is considered a “critical environmental area”, the
project will have to come out of the river and onto land from Verplanck
to Sleepy Hollow. Village Manager Healy directed everyone to Exhibit
7, that deals with how the work would impact Croton’s Ordinances and
Laws and encouraged everyone to review this to see if we should
respond and put comments on the record.
Link to Exhibit 7:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202303/cbcf5bb1cd32dd50048fb97e7f3de09a56ac549c.pdf
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed his concerns
with closing down gas pipelines and the recent closure of a clean energy
plant, concerned that the County will be setting rent increases, and the
effect ETPA will have on our small landlords.
7. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution 61 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
12

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 13

WHEREAS the Village has leased the Asbury United Methodist Church Parking Lot
for many years to provide additional off-street parking for the Upper Village area,
and
WHEREAS the current agreement is set to expire on May 31, 2023, and it is the
desire of both the Village and the Asbury United Methodist Church to continue this
lease arrangement for the use of the parking lot,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
sign the lease agreement with the Asbury United Methodist Church for the use of
their parking lot for the period of June 1, 2023, to May 31, 2028, at a yearly rental
cost to the Village of $4,500 per year.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Nicholson suggested that we institute better signage so that people
understand where they can park.
Village Manager Healy advised that the new Wayfinding signs are going to do a
better job of indicating where people can park, and we look forward to seeing them
installed.
Resolution 62 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Government Accounting Standards Board establishes a number of
generally accepted accounting principles which state and local governments must
adhere to, and
WHEREAS one such standard, GASB 34, includes a requirement that local
governments periodically conduct an inventory of physical assets, and
WHEREAS the Village Treasurer has received a proposal from Kroll LLC (formerly
known as Duff & Phelps) of Morristown, New Jersey, for consulting services related
to GASB 34 for the compiling of a fixed asset accounting ledger for a total cost of
$2,000,

13

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 14

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to accept the proposal from Kroll LLC in the amount
of $2,000 for the aforementioned consulting services for the fiscal year ending May
31, 2023.
Resolution 63 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department operates three marine
units: a fireboat and two inflatable rafts, one of which operates with an outboard
motor, which are routinely replaced due to their consistent level of service, and
WHEREAS the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department desires to purchase a new Fire
Boat to replace an existing vessel in its marine operations that was retired last
summer after 30 years of service, and
WHEREAS the Village was awarded two State and Municipal Facilities Program
(SAM) grants in 2022 for the purchase of the new Fire Boat, and
WHEREAS the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York has now provided the
Village with two grant disbursement agreements in the amount of $100,000 and
$125,000, respectively,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to sign the grant disbursement agreements in the amount of
$100,000 and $125,000, respectively.
Resolution 64 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from David McCallen of Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC, to establish a business office
and small rectification operation at 1 Croton Point Avenue, and

14

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 15

WHEREAS the proposed action is a Type II action under the New York State
Environmental Quality Review Act, which does not require an environmental review,
and
WHEREAS on March 20, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees referred the special
permit application to the Planning Board for a recommendation, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board had submitted
recommendation to the Board of Trustees,

a

memo

with

a

positive

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, April 10, 2023, at 7:00 PM in the in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider the special permit application from Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC, to
establish a business office and small rectification operation at 1 Croton Point
Avenue.
Resolution 65 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to clarify language related to
procedures for the towing and impoundment of vehicles with three or more
outstanding parking violation defaults, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, April 24, 2023, at 7:00 PM in the in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2023, amending Chapter 215, Vehicles
and Traffic, of the Village Code regarding towing and impoundment for outstanding
parking violations.
DISCUSSION:

15

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 16

Village Manager Healy explained that while we were in the process of changing our
ticket vendor, the Village took a look at our Code with respect to towing vehicles at
the train station parking lot, the new law reads as follows:
Vehicles subject to towing. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to provide for
the towing and impoundment of vehicles which have three or more outstanding
Village parking violation defaults against them and which, after mailing a notice of
the Village parking violation defaults and stating the vehicle’s eligibility to be towed
and impounded to the registered owner at the address provided by the Department
of Motor Vehicles records, and not receiving a response for a period of seven days
after having mailed said notice, are found operated or parked on any public street,
public highway, or Village roadway, or in any Village parking lots where towing may
be done.
Trustee Nicholson asked if we only tow in the parking lot.
Mayor Pugh stated that in theory we can tow elsewhere, but in practice we do not.
Village Manager Healy explained that while the Parking Enforcement vehicle is
checking the train station parking lot for permits, the license plate reader can also
alert them when a vehicle has a number of outstanding tickets, once they get this
alert, they communicate with the Court and the Court will advise them if the vehicle
is eligible to be towed.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that in practice it is primarily done in the
commuter parking lot, and asked if the Board wants to limit it to that location.
Village Manager Healy suggested not making any changes because there may be a
time when we want to tow a vehicle and asked Village Attorney Whitehead if the
Village would be required to have signage at the entrance points to the Village.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that she does not believe this would require
Village-wide signage, but she will review it and have the information before the
public hearing.
Resolution 66 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE N I C H O L S O N , the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
16

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 17

WHEREAS the New York State Legislature recently enacted legislation permitting
Villages to lower their Village-wide speed limit from 30 MPH to 25 MPH, and
WHEREAS the Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee has studied this legislation and is
supportive of making such a change for the Village, and
WHEREAS the legislation requires that the Village undertake a traffic engineering
study before enacting such a change, and
WHEREAS DTS Provident Design Engineering, LLP, a licensed Professional
Engineering firm in the State of New York, has conducted a detailed Traffic
Engineering Study which makes recommendations and provides support for the
lowering of the Village-wide speed limit from 30 MPH to 25 MPH, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Monday, April 24, 2023, at 7:00 PM in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2023, to amend Chapter 215 of the Village
Code, Vehicles and Traffic, regarding Speed Limits.
Resolution 67 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program was
approved by referendum in 2003, and
WHEREAS Article 11-A of the New York State General Municipal Law requires that
the list of Fire Department members indicating those who earned a year of service
credit during the calendar year, those that did not earn a year of credit, and those
who waived participation must be certified under oath by the Fire Department, and
WHEREAS once certified, this list must be approved by the Village Board and posted
for 30 days,

17

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 18

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the list for 2022 and authorizes its posting for 30 days.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon advised that there was a recent article in Lohud.com about a study
indicating that the combined efforts of our volunteer firefighters save New York
State 4.8 billion dollars per year.
Village Manager Healy advised that of the approximately one hundred and fifty
members listed on the Roster, about a third of them have earned credit this year.
Mayor Pugh congratulated those that qualified and expressed his deep appreciation
to all the members of the Department.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board
overruled the Rules of Procedure and invited Tex Dinkler to address the Board. The
motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Tex Dinkler advised that the software that the Fire Department has been using for
many years will be going away and the Department has been working for over a
year on getting a suitable replacement. Mr. Dinkler stated that they are also
looking to expand the capabilities of the software to include incident reports,
personnel records, training records, on-call exposure reports, inventory and many
other areas that would benefit the Fire Department.
Resolution 68 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the cost of vehicle maintenance supplies from manufacturers has
increased, resulting in higher-than-anticipated expenses for the Central Garage,
and
WHEREAS total funding for these expenses was not included in the 2022-2023
General Fund Budget,

18

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 19

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to transfer $10,000 from Contingency Account
A1990.4000 to the following account:
A1640.4210 Central Garage – Vehicle Maintenance Supplies: $10,000
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, reminded the Board
that landlords of small buildings are just like other small businesses in the
Village. Mr. Riely stated that if renters are being protected from inflation
maybe homeowners should be as well. Mr. Riely recommended that the
Village election be moved back to March so that the Board is more
accountable and recommended term limits for Village Board members.
Mr. Riely stated that the Village suffers from sign proliferation and is
concerned about adding more signs.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular meeting held
on March 20, 2023, was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10.REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson advised that they have received one-hundred and fifty
responses to the Police Survey, the survey will close at the end of the
month and encouraged those that have not done so to fill out the survey.
Link to survey as follows:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/police-department/webforms/2023community-survey-safety-and-law-enforcement
Trustee Simon advised that the Planning Board met last week and they
are continuing their work on Accessory Dwelling Units, the Sustainability
Committee met yesterday morning and talked about the pilot Food Scrap
Program and the possible funding for electric vehicle charging stations, he
has prepared a memo detailing some of the recommendations made with
respect to the Black Rock Dog Park and looks forward to discussing those
recommendations with the Board.
19

Village Trustees Board Meeting
March 27, 2023
Page 20

Trustee Gallelli stated that the new Wayfinding Signs are very attractive
and a nice upgrade to what we currently have, following the presentation
on the Budget this evening, the Board will begin the process of meeting
with our Department Heads to examine the Tentative Budget in more
detail, reminded everyone that this Wednesday the Vietnam Veterans Day
ceremony will take place in Buchanan, Spring Family night will be held at
Vassallo park on Friday April 14th and the Little League parade will be held
on April 15th.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz, the
Board of Trustees approved the appointment of Brice Laemmel to the
Police Advisory Committee. The motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz the Board
of Trustees approved entering into an Executive Session to discuss a
matter concerning a specific piece of property. The motion was approved
with a 5-0 vote.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was
adjourned at 10:20 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

20

