VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2022

PRESENT: Jim Tuman, Acting Chairman
         Doug Olcott
         Rocco Mastronardi

ABSENT: Christine Wagner
        Daron Weber

ALSO PRESENT: Ronald Wegner, PE, Assistant Village Engineer
              Alejandro Rosales, Trustee Liaison
              Len Simon, Trustee Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER:

Acting Chairman Tuman, called the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting to order at 8:01 p.m.

Before the applications went before the Board, acting Chairman Tuman shared with the public and applicants that the decision by the Board had to be unanimous as there are only three members present at the meeting.

2. NEW BUSINESS

a) Sonnenburg, Jeremy & Dorothy, Owner—31 Lower North Highland Place—Located in the RA-40 District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.2 Block 2 Lot 5. Request for a side yard variance from Village Code Section 230-33A for the extension of a primary suite.

PRESENT: John Power, Architect
         Dorothy Sonnenburg

Mr. Power, Architect began by explaining to the Board that his client's house is a large home but that the only flaw of the home's design is that the primary closet is disproportionately small in relation to the size of the primary bedroom. Mr. Power stated that the Sonnenburg's are seeking to do an addition on one side of the structure to create an enlarged primary bedroom closet. Mr. Power explained to the Board that they had looked at alternative locations for the closet addition. However, the location of utilities such as the gas main supply and other aspects of the property make it difficult to put the addition elsewhere. Mr. Power expressed his thought that they could potentially put the small addition on the front elevation of the property but it would not be an attractive place to consider, noting it would negatively alter the front appearance of the house. Mr. Power added that they also considered the rear of the structure for the addition but the location of the backyard inground pool does not allow room for the expansion.

Mr. Power stated that the primary bedroom has 3 large windows in the front of the room and 3 large windows in the back of the room and that the windows contribute to limiting alternate locations for the addition. Mr. Power added that the primary structure is built right up to the 30' yard setback and that the addition would go out 8'ft from the existing structure. It was decided that that the best and least offensive location for the closet addition would be on the side that faces a mechanical area. It was felt that the selected location would be best because it is already an unattractive area as it houses the mechanical equipment for the house. Furthermore, Mr. Power stated it would not be obtrusive looking on the side of the house. Mr. Power added that the project also includes an upper area that will be finished but will be partitioned. Mr. Power also shared that there is a small window on the house that will need to be relocated to create the primary closet.

The Board asked Mr. Power where the addition will be in relation to the neighbors' property. Mr. Power stated that the lots on Lower N. Highland are large so the small addition would not be apparent from the neighbors' properties. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer added that the neighbor located at 29 Lower N. Highland is the closest neighbor but there is a lot of greenery that acts as a good screen between them and the neighboring property. The Board also noted that the house is a good distance from the road making it less visible.

Acting Chairman Tuman then asked the Board if they had any additional questions for Mr. Power. The Board felt satisfied with the explanation as to why the small addition will be located where it is.

Acting Chairman Tuman then opened the public hearing. There being no comments from the public, the hearing was closed.

The Board then discussed the 5 factors:

1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

The Board discussed and agreed that the house is set on a large lot, the primary structure is set back far from road. Therefore, there will not be an undesirable change made to the character of the neighborhood.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested variance.

The Board discussed the location of the utilities and other structures (inground pool) on the property and agreed that there were no other feasible options to where the extension of the primary bedroom could be placed.

3. The requested variance is not substantial.

The Board agreed the project is a modest addition.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 7.1'ft subject to the conditions set forth by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Mr. Mastronardi seconded the motion. The motion was carried by a vote of 3-0. Roll Call: Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes. (Chairperson Wagner absent, Mr. Weber, absent).

b) Graham, David, Architect-8 Hamilton Ave.-- Located in the RA-5 Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.8 Block 5 Lot 51. Request for a side yard and total side yard variance from Section 230-33A of the Village Code for the addition of a rear deck.

PRESENT: David Graham, Architect

Introduced himself as architect and stated that he was present to represent his clients, Mr. & Mrs. Andersen. Mr. Graham shared with the Board that his clients presently have a rear deck that is in disrepair and that they are looking to replace it with a covered deck. Mr. Graham stated that the deck/primary structure is currently non-conforming which is the reason why they are present before the Board requesting variances. Mr. Graham explained that a minimum setback of 8'ft is required on one side of the property and the left side is currently at a 3' ft setback from the property line. Mr. Graham stated that they are proposing that the new work be set 5'ft from the property line. The Board then helped determine that because the house is existing, non-conforming and is located 5'ft from the side yard property line then they will need a 3'ft side yard variance. Mr. Graham noted that they are actually reducing the variance that is needed and the seconded requested variance is the total of 3'ft and 6'ft.

Mr. Graham further explained that because his clients would like the deck covered with a roof to create shade and that due to the position of their kitchen window, the design of the deck had to be shifted 2'ft over so that a column would not be dead center in the middle of the kitchen sink window. Mr. Graham stated that the original, existing deck is 25'ft out from the primary structure but that they will be reducing the size of the new deck, pulling it in 16'ft noting that the new deck is smaller in size than the existing.

The Board then confirmed that the newly proposed deck is a 2-story deck, where the roof will have access as a second story deck with railings. The Board asked Mr. Graham that when looking at the rear of the house, if it is on the left side where the deck is being enlarged (getting wider). Mr. Graham confirmed that was correct elaborating that the deck currently lines up with the side of the house but the new deck will extend an additional 3X6'or 7'ft where the staircase will be built. The Board then asked why the extension of the deck on the left side doesn't require a variance. It was then determined that the structure is more than 11'ft away from the property line so it only requires a total side yard variance. It was further determined that the hot tub will be relocated on grade and 5'ft from the line and therefore does not require a variance.

The Board asked the applicant how the neighbors felt about the project and if there was any opposition. Mr. & Mrs. Andersen responded by sharing with the Board that all the neighbors had reported to them that they are in support of the project. Mr. Andersen stated that they invited all the neighbors over to present the idea and design to them and at that time the neighbors were very supportive. The applicants also noted that there was no one from the public present at the meeting in opposition. Mr. Graham added that the nature of that neighborhood is that things are tight. Neighbor also has a deck close to the proline.

Acting Chairman Tuman asked the Board if they had any additional questions for the applicant. With no additional questions from the Board, Acting Chairman Tuman opened the public hearing and with no comment from the public, the hearing was closed.

The Zoning Board of Appeals discussed the five factors.

1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

In addition to a deck already existing on the property, the Board discussed agreed that the neighboring properties have similar setups with decks and porches close to the property lines therefore the project is in keeping with the character of the neighborhood.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested variance.

While the existing deck is already non-conforming, it was discussed and agreed that the benefit could be achieved by another method if the size of the deck was shrunk and therefore could be moved over to be conforming but the applicant but the deck would be smaller in size than desired.

3. The requested variance is not substantial.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.

The Board discussed and agreed that because of the existing conditions of the house and its nonconformance, the house/property conditions were already set-up and therefore the difficulty was not self-created.

MOTION: Acting Chairman made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 3.0'ft and total side yard variance of 6.0'ft for the addition of a 2-story rear deck. Mr. Olcott seconded the motion. All in favor. The motion was carried by a vote of 3-0. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes (Chairperson Wagner absent, Mr. Weber, absent).

c) SCS Van Wyck 012823 Croton-on-Hudson, LLC – Veterans' Plaza – Located in the LI-1 Light Industrial District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.17 Block 1 Lots 10 and p/o 5. Request for the issuance and renewal of a side yard and total side yard variances and a variance from the Waterfront setback for mean high-water line from Section 230-37 of the Village Code for proposed solar canopies and battery energy storage system at the Croton Harmon Train Station Parking Lot.

PRESENT: Steve Meersma, TRC Engineering

Acting Chairman Tuman, began by stating that the application from SCS Van Wyck 012823 Croton-on-Hudson, LLC had previously been granted a variance however, it expired and they are present at the meeting to re-apply.

Mr. Meersma, introduced himself to the board stating he is a professional Engineer from TRC and that the applicant is their client. Mr. Meersma stated that the original variance was requested and received in September 2021 and that the 1-yr time frame had expired therefore another application to the Zoning Board had to be made. Mr. Meersma added that since the original application, they have been working with a team of engineers to further the design and to change the layout of canopies that are driving the need for variances. Additionally, modest improvements have been made in the setback requirements which is reflected in the new application. It was noted by the Board that the setbacks are not the same as on the original variance granted in that the setbacks are lesser.

Mr. Meersma explained that the original side yard setback was 2'ft and the total side yard was 38'ft and now, the new application has a side yard setback of 6'ft and a total of 45'ft. Mr. Meersma noted it was not a drastic difference rather slightly different.

When asked if the project went before the Planning Board, Mr. Meersma stated that the project had been approved by the Planning Board but is not certain if the new application needs to go back to the Planning Board for new approval. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer stated that he believes the applicant does not need to noting that the changes to the plans are modest.

The Board asked Mr. Meersma when the target construction start date is. Mr. Meersma stated that the start date conversation is ongoing but it was noted the parking lot has been closed off already. Mr. Len Simon, Trustee Liaisons, added that at the village sustainability meeting a target date for completion was discussed and that May 2023 was a goal date of completion however, August 2023 is believed to be a more reliable end date.

The Board discussed the details of the application as there was some confusion on how the requested variances were written. After discussion with Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer and Mr. Meersma clarification was provided and it was determined that there is a total of 3 variances being requested. Acting Chairman Tuman stated that the requested variances are: 1- side yard variance, 1- total side yard variance and 1- waterfront variance.

Mr. Meersma concluded by sharing with the Board that CORE Development group has been selected to oversee the design and construction of the solar canopies, that engineers have been hired to procure and construct the project and that there will be an onsite construction manager. Mr. Meersma added that TRC was also hired to do the permitting process with Village and to perform the civil engineering aspect of the project.

Acting Chairman Tuman then opened the meeting to the public, hearing no comment, the public hearing was closed.

The Zoning Board of appeals reviewed the Five Factors and determined the following:

1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested variance.

3. The requested variance is substantial.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 24'ft and a total side yard of 29' ft and a waterfront MHWL of 85' ft. Mr. Mastronardi seconded the motion. All in favor. Roll Call: Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes (Chairperson Wagner, absent, Mr. Weber, Absent).

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

The Board agreed to postpone the approval of the Minutes of October 12, 2022 Zoning Board of Appeals meeting until Chairperson Wagner is present to approve.

4. ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:47 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals
