Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Minutes of Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting
Wednesday, January 11, 2023
PRESENT: James Tuman, Acting Chair
Doug Olcott
Daron Weber
ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Liaison
ABSENT: Christine Wagner, Chair
Rocco Mastronardi

1.

CALL TO ORDER
The January 11, 2023 Zoning Board of Appeals meeting was called to order at 8:01 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Hair, Debra—22 Harrison Street—Located in a RB-2 Family Residential District and designated
on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.17 Block 4 Lot 3. Request for a
side yard variance from Section 230-40G(1) for existing dormers on the primary structure (residence).
PRESENT: Debra Hair, Previous Owner
Ms. Hair introduced herself to the Board and explained that the house located at 22 Harrison was built in
the 1920’s by her family and had been in her family for 3 generations. Ms. Hair stated that in the 1950’s
her grandfather applied for a building permit to construct dormers on the home. Ms. Hair explained that
when she put the property up for sale, she had to legalize the dormers of which require a variance on one
side of the property and therefore she was present at the meeting to request a side yard variance of 5.2ft
for the existing dormer (one side of the property).
Ms. Hair shared with the Board that she spoke with the new owner of the neighboring property, 20
Harrison Street, who took it over in 2016 who provided a statement of support that the dormer does not
infringe on his property in any way.
Mr. Ron Wegner, confirmed that the variance was for the 2nd-story dormer and pointed out on the
provided drawings, the shaded area on the property survey showed the setbacks. It was reiterated that
the house was originally built in the 1920’s prior to local zoning code and the dormers were then added
in 1957 an issued permit. Mr. Wegner shared that the 1st floor of the structure predated zoning code as it
was built in the 1920’s and that the 2nd level was built flush with the 1st floor however the original
structure was legally non-conforming. Therefore, only the 2nd story dormer on one side needs the
variance. Furthermore, Mr. Wegner explained that the building permit was never closed with a
certificate of occupancy and after the variance is granted then the building permit can be closed with the
issuance of certificate of occupancy. It was noted that the property located at 22 Harrison is a twofamily residential property.

1

The Board asked the applicant how it was discovered that the issue with permits and need for a variance.
Ms. Hair responded that the issue was raised by a title search during the sale of the house.
Acting Chairman Tuman asked the Board if they had any additional questions for the applicant. With no
additional questions from the Board, Acting Chairman Tuman opened the meeting to the public. There
being no comment, the public meeting was closed.
The Board then discussed the 5 Factors:

1.
No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

2.
The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.

3.
The requested variance is not substantial; the house was pre-existing non-conforming
and the dormers were built in-line with the house.

4.
The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.

5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 5.2’ft for an existing dormer on a
primary structure, seconded by Mr. Tuman. The motion was carried by a vote of 3-0. All in Favor.
Roll Call: Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, (Mr. Mastronardi, Absent, Chairperson
Wegner, Absent).
b) Dicairano, Maria—4 Kuney Street—Located in a RA-25 Residential District and designated on
the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.17 Block 3 Lot 37. Request for a rear
yard and a side yard variance from Section 230-40A(1) for an existing accessory structure.
PRESENT: John Power, Architect
Maria Dicairano, Owner
Mr. Power and Ms. Dicairano introduced themselves to the Board. Ms. Dicairano stated that she was
present at the meeting because she has to “bring her file up to code” so that she can get approval for
handicap accessibility to an accessory apartment for her parents. It was clarified that the applicant is
requesting variances for existing decks and a shed on her property. The applicant explained the decks
were on the property when she purchased the house but since the purchase, she has replaced both decks
with building permits and certificates of occupancy.

2

Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer offered the Board background on the application. Mr. Wegner
explained the house was built in 1958 and in 1968 a certificate of occupancy was issued for a deck and
a pool in the backyard. In October 1969 there was a certificate of occupancy issued for a rear portion of
the house and a specific section of the deck and back then in 1969, the deck was within the 30’ft
setback. Therefore, back then a variance should have been granted but was not. Mr. Wegner went on to
explain that subsequent to that, in 2008 both decks were replaced and rebuilt with permits and CO’s
however the need for a variance was still not caught and addressed at that time. Mr. Power pointed out
that in 1968 when the deck around the pool was built it was considered an accessory structure. Mr.
Wegner added that in 1968 because it was an accessory structure, built separately from the house it was
code compliant; however, one portion of the 2nd deck was not code compliant because it was attached
to the house and too close to the rear yard property line. Mr. Wegner then pointed out that the shed on
the property (believed to be on the property since 2000). Ms. Dicairano stated that the shed had been
there at least from 2000 which was the year she purchased the property. Mr. Wegner also shared that 4
Kuney Street had been before the ZBA in March 2021 when the applicant was granted variances for
work on the open porch and again the need for a variance should have been picked up on then but was
not. Mr. Wegner stated that it wasn’t until Ms. Dicairano submitted an application for an accessory
apartment that the need to legalize the shed and request rear yard variances was finally brought to light.
The Board pointed out that the middle deck is what really brought up the major issues and thanked Mr.
Wegner for his clear explanation on the application. It was then clarified that the variance will be for
the rear of the deck to the rear of the property line and for the shed as well.
The Acting Chairman asked the Board if they had further questions for the applicant. The board did not
and the Acting Chairman opened the meeting to the public. An anonymous resident asked the Board
for clarification that the structures (decks and shed) relevant to the variance were existing. The Board
confirmed that the decks and shed were previously existing structures and that the applicant was there
to legalize the structures. And with there being no further comment, the public meeting was closed.
The Board then discussed the 5 Factors:
1.
No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
2.
The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance; if the middle deck was removed a variance would not be required.
3.

The requested variance is substantial based on the 20.65’ft variance.

4.
The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district;

5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Weber made a motion to grant a rear yard variance of 20.65’ft for an existing deck, a
side yard variance of 3.6’ft and a rear yard variance of 1.1ft for an existing accessory structure (shed).
Seconded by Mr. Tuman. The motion was carried by a vote of 3-0. All in Favor. Roll Call: Mr.
Olcott, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, (Mr. Mastronardi, Absent, Chairperson Wegner,
Absent).
3

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Mr. Olcott made a motion to approve the amended meeting minutes of October 12, 2022
seconded by Mr. Tuman. All in favor.
·
The approval of the Minutes of November 9, 2022 was postponed due to Mr. Mastronardi’s
absence.

4.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:23p.m.
Respectfully Submitted By,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

4

