VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2023

PRESENT: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
Jim Tuman
Rocco Mastronardi
Daron Weber
ALSO PRESENT: Ronald Wegner, PE, Assistant Village Engineer
Nora M. Nicholson, Board of Trustee Liaison
ABSENT: Doug Olcott

1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting to order at 7:59 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Pulsone, Domenick—72 Oneida Avenue—Located in a RA-5 Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 10
Lot 43. Request for a variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40A(1)(b) to
allow for an existing, detached deck less than 5’ft from a property line.
PRESENT: Domenick Pulsone, Applicant
Mr. Pulsone introduced himself to the Board and said he was looking for a variance for a rear yard deck
Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer shared that Mr. Pulsone is returning to the Board because the
detached deck was overlooked during an inspection. It was noted that if it was a patio or stone, it
wouldn’t need a variance however, it is a slightly raised wood deck. Mr. Pulsone shared that the neighbor
to the side offered a letter of support. The Board reviewed the plans and pictures of the property and
agreed that the deck is unnoticeable and one would not even know it is there from looking at the pictures.
Chairperson Wagner open the public meeting, there being no comment the public meeting was closed.
The Board discussed and reviewed the Five Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

1

2. The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance; however, the detached deck already exists and is akin to a patio and potentially
better than a patio.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a setback variance of 4.5’ft for an existing accessory
structure (deck) less than 5’ ft from a property line be granted subject to the conditions set forth by the
Zoning Board of Appeals. Mr. Mastronardi seconded the motion. The motion was carried by a vote of 40. Roll Call: Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, and Mr. Weber, yes (Mr.
Olcott, absent).

b) 211 Grand Street LLC (Donna Nikic)-211 Grand Street—Located in a RB 2-Family
Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 68.17-4-23. Request for a side yard variance from Village Zoning Code Section
230-40G(1) for a 2-story addition.
PRESENT: Steven Basini, Architect
Mr. Basini introduced himself to the Board and stated that his client is requesting a side yard variance for a
proposed 2-story addition. Mr. Basini stated that the house is pre-existing, non-conforming and that the
structure sits back on a slight angle. Mr. Basini stated that they are seeking a 4.5 ft variance on the east
side of the house. Mr. Basini explained that the proposal is to add a bedroom and bathroom in both units
(existing 2-family house). Mr. Basini added that he believes the proposed project will not have a negative
effect on the character of the neighborhood. Mr. Basini explained that the addition will be in the rear of
the house and that they dropped the roofline in the back to minimize the bulk of the structure. Additionally,
they eliminated a dilapidated wrap around porch and reduced the size of the deck.
The Board asked the applicant if there were any other feasible methods or designs explored. Mr. Basini
stated that they explored the addition on the side of the house but it would cut off access to the side and
rear of the property and that it is a very narrow lot to begin with and for aesthetic reasons the rear was also
the best option. Mr. Basini added that it is a very old home and in trying to keep with the character and
adhere to what is already there, they lowered the roofline so that it keeps with the character of the home.
The Board suggested reducing the square footage as an alternative but Mr. Basini shared that it is an
addition of a primary bedroom with a 5’ft wide bath and one closet for assuming a couple and it winds up
being a 17’ft X 15’ft room so if one were to reduce the square footage and size of the bedroom, it becomes
less of a value.

2

Mr. Basini pointed out that if the design was reduced by 4.5 feet the addition would be 17.5 feet but in
considering the factor of the closets the room will be smaller
The bulk of the neighboring lot was discussed and there is a 2-car garage in the back of the lot, so they will
still be under coverage and it was noted that the depth of the addition was reduced. The Board asked if
they needed the combined setback variance. Mr. Basini shared that he learned from Mr. Wegner that
because the front is a preexisting non-conforming, they only require the one side yard variance. It was
noted that the building skews slightly northeast to the back.
The Board asked the applicant if they had spoken with the neighbors about the proposed project. Mr.
Basini stated that he believes the owners spoke to the neighbors when they originally purchased the house
and when they took down the porch but is unsure if there was any comment from the neighbors.
When asked the age of the home, the applicant was unsure of the age of the house but shared it predates
zoning. The Board asked if there was a need to address the encroachment on the front of the property but
because they are not altering the front of the structure, it would not have to be re-visited.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the public meeting to anyone who wanted to be heard.
Anthony Tramagolini of 217 Grand Street came forward.
Mr. Tramagolini had a question for the applicant regarding the parking situation. Mr. Tramagolini stated
that there currently no parking in front of that property and there is an issue with parking in the whole
Village and currently the cars for 211 Grand Street park in the driveway. Mr. Tramagolini asked if the
additional bedrooms and the addition itself impede on the cars being able to continue to park in the
driveway.
Mr. Basini showed the Board and the public the site plan and demonstrated it will not impede where the
off-street parking is and that they are not adding a unit therefore there will not be a negative impact on
parking in the area.
Hearing no further comment, the public hearing closed.
The Board then discussed the Five Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that the roof line design is aesthetically pleasing and that the
lot is a large lot so the addition will not be encroaching on the rear lot.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance; but at a cost to aesthetic and parking.
The Board discussed and agreed this is the most logical and aesthetically pleasing placement
for the addition. The only other option would be the side of the house but it would cut off
access to the rear yard.
3

3. The requested variance is not substantial.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district;
5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Weber made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 4.5’ft for a rear 2-story addition.
Seconded by Mr. Mastronardi. The motion was carried by a vote of 3-0. All in Favor. Roll Call: Mr.
Weber, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes (Mr. Olcott, Absent).

c) Sharkey, Lorraine—76 Morningside Drive—Located in a RA-9 Residential District and designated
on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 6 Lot 6. Request for a
variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40A(1) for a proposed carport and existing
shed located in a front yard, Section 230-40A(1)(a) for a proposed carport and existing shed
set back less than 5’ ft from any lot line and Section 230-40B for a proposed carport and
existing shed nearer to the street than the primary structure.

PRESENT: Lorraine Sharkey, Owner
Ted Brumleve, Consultant
Lewis Roane, Architect

Mr. Brumleve introduced himself as well as the architect and applicant. Mr. Brumleve state that the
purpose of the proposed detached carport in the front yard is to create weather protection and the request
is to push into the front yard and side yard setbacks. Mr. Brumleve stated it is a relatively small lot with
a relatively small area that is up at the street level and the rest of the property is below as that side of
Morningside Drive slopes downwards. Mr. Brumleve handed the presentation over to Mr. Roane to
present the “technical” aspects of the application.
Mr. Roane stated that the design of the carport is to provide a structure on a narrow lot that is least
obtrusive and designed to compliments the materials of the existing house so it looks like it belongs there.
Mr. Roane shared that they provided the Board with pictures of similar carports that exist on Morningside
Drive. Mr. Roane described the carport as being open on all 4 strides and that it will be just the roof
structure. The Board asked Mr. Roane what other solutions had been considered. Mr. Roane described
the lot sharing that it is a sloping lot and the topography of it limits options as there are existing retaining
walls, a drop off and stairs. Mr. Roane added that there is already an existing driveway therefore placing
the carport over the existing driveway makes the most sense. It was added that the property gets narrower
as it moves down to the rear of the yard. The Board confirmed that the applicant was looking for 3
variances.

4

The Board then posed the question, what if the carport was cut back so the front yard variance could be
eliminated? Mr. Roane stated that if they shrink it from front and back it would not be considered a
regulation parking spot. Mr. Brumleve added that the designed 20’ft carport would cover the size of a
modern-day sized car. It was also shared that the height of the carport is 11’ft to the ridge. The Board
asked and discussed how the drainage from the roof would be handled. Mr. Roane stated there will be
gutters and downspouts could be added. It was noted that the driveway pitches back towards the house
and that it is approximately 3’ ft from the front property line to the carport. It was stated that they will not
be adding impervious service rather redirecting the water avoiding it from going on to the neighbor’s
property. The Board discussed that there is an existing leader and corrugated pipe that will be utilized for
drainage. Chairperson Wagner stated that at looking at the property there is still space between the road
and the property line and therefore the structure will not impede on pedestrians walking by the house.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the meeting to the public.
No one came forward to be heard. However, the owner, Ms. Sharkey spoke sharing that there was
neighbor support for the proposed project
.
The Board discussed and agreed that this application requires a site visit before making a decision. It was
felt that a site visit would help to get a better understanding of the scope of work and placement of the
carport.
The public hearing will remain open until the next Zoning Board of Appeals meeting. The secretary to the
Zoning Board of Appeals shared she would contact the homeowner and coordinate with the board
members to schedule a site visit.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

The approval of the Minutes of November 9, 2022 meeting and the January 11, 2023 meeting
were postponed due to member absences.

4.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:31p.m.
Respectfully Submitted By,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

5

