Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Monday, April 10, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.

The following officials were present:

       Mayor Pugh                             Trustee Gallelli
       Village Manager Bryan Healy            Trustee Horowitz
       Village Attorney Linda Whitehead       Trustee Nicholson
       Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker        Trustee Simon

      1. CALL TO ORDER

         Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in
         the Pledge of Allegiance.

      2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS

         Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
         Vouchers, claims numbered 22234385 through 22234549. The motion
         was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.

           General Fund                 $116,365.05
           Water Fund                    $11,955.13
           Sewer Fund                    $10,637.10
           Capital Fund                  $20,184.51

      3. PUBLIC HEARINGS

         Public Hearing #1

         A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the Special Permit
         application from Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC to establish a business
         office and small rectification operation at 1 Croton Point Avenue was
         made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and
         approved with a 5-0 vote.

          There being no comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
          Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was seconded
          by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.

Resolution 69 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 2



WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from David McCallen of Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC, to establish a business office
and small rectification operation at 1 Croton Point Avenue, and

WHEREAS the proposed action is a Type II action under the New York State
Environmental Quality Review Act, which does not require an environmental review,
and

WHEREAS, on March 20, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees referred the special
permit application to the Planning Board for a recommendation, and

WHEREAS the Planning Board had submitted               a   memo   with   a   positive
recommendation to the Board of Trustees; and

WHEREAS, a Public Hearing consider the special permit application was opened and
closed on Monday, April 10, 2023,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues a
special-use permit to Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC, to establish a business office
and small rectification operation at 1 Croton Point Avenue with the following
conditions:

    1. That an application be made to the Planning Board for Minor Site Plan
       Approval for the change in use under section 230-67B(4) of the Zoning Code.

    2. That an application be made to the Building Department for a building permit
       and certificate of occupancy for the change in occupancy as required by the
       2020 Existing Building Code of NYS.

    3. That any required license or permit from the Federal Alcohol and Tobacco Tax
       and Trade Bureau (TTB) or any other Federal Agency be obtained.

    4. That any required license or permit from the New York State Liquor Authority
       or any other State agency be obtained.

        DISCUSSION

        Trustee Simon stated that he believes this is going to be a good opportunity
        for Croton and looks forward to their next steps.



                                          2
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 3



        Trustee Gallelli stated that their presentation to the Planning Board was well
        received.

            Public Hearing #2

            A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
            3 of 2023 to amend Chapter 86, Building Construction, of the Village Code
            to provide for the administration and enforcement of the New York State
            Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code was made by Trustee Simon.
            The motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0
            vote.

            Village Manager Healy explained that New York State provided a model
            law at the end of 2022, this proposed Local Law follows those new
            mandates, but indicated that parts of the language that is required to be
            in the law may not have a significant impact on the Village at this time.

            Village Engineer Daniel O’Connor advised that the Village was able to
            have a say with respect to small accessary structures, structures that are
            less than twenty-four feet in footprint would not be required to obtain a
            permit but anything larger would continue to require a Building Permit.

            Village Attorney Whitehead advised that one of the changes that we had
            discussed is that Building Permit extensions will now go through the
            Building Department and not have to come before the Village Board.

            To view the entire law, you may log onto the following:
            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            03/31a39bc4d169d18d6979a2e8f836bb77888a2e2d.pdf

            There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
            close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was
            seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.

Resolution 70 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.



                                           3
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 4



WHEREAS New York State Executive Law § 381 directs that each local government
is responsible for administration and enforcement of the New York State Uniform Fire
Prevention and Building Code (“the Uniform Code”) and the State Energy
Conservation Construction Code (“the Energy Code”) with respect to buildings
located within the local government, and

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to revise Chapter 86, Building
Construction, of the Village Code to ensure compliance with the minimum standards
for administration and enforcement of the Uniform Code and Energy Code, and

WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2023 has been drafted for such purposes,
and

WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on April 10, 2023,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2023 to amend Chapter 86, Building
Construction, of the Village Code to provide for the administration and enforcement of
the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 3 of 2023.


            Public Hearing #3

            A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
            4 of 2023 to amend Section 230-48.1 of the Zoning Code to prohibit the
            construction of Tier 3 solar systems on steep slopes was made by Trustee
            Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with
            a 5-0 vote.

            Written Comments

            Email from Paula Chabrowe, 26 Mt. Green Road, Croton on Hudson,
            requesting that the Board continue to review the legislation that was
            passed by the Town of Cortlandt and improve the Village’s Solar and
            Steep Slopes laws similar to what the Town of Cortlandt has done.

            Email from Domna Candido, 1299 Albany Post Road, Croton on Hudson,
            asking the Board to continue to improve the Village’s Steep Slopes and


                                          4
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 5



            Solar Laws so that we have increased protections for wetlands, steep
            slopes, and residential properties.

            Trustee Simon stated that when the Board initially discussed steep slopes,
            we talked about the concept of going a little deeper with regards to
            protections and we decided that we would consider the steep slopes law
            now but keep the door open for exploring what the Town of Cortlandt has
            done. Trustee Simon added that the Planning Board at their meeting last
            week recommended that we proceed with this law.

            To view the Planning Board memo, you may log onto the following:
            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            04/b401fe26cdf5d92e3dea8e9ad5bf8bb2622adb3c.pdf

            Trustee Gallelli stated that the Planning Board, as indicated in their
            memo, was comfortable with the Board going ahead with this proposed
            law.

            There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
            close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was
            seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.

            DISCUSSION:

            Trustee Horowitz stated that she does not understand why this particular
            law has to be done right now and asked if it is appropriate to go forward
            since the Planning Board had some concerns similar to what the rest of us
            have. Trustee Horowitz stated that the Town of Cortlandt declared a
            Moratorium on solar panels because they realized this was an important
            piece of legislation and they wanted to get it right and since our law is
            fairly weak, she does not understand why we are only addressing one part
            of it. Trustee Horowitz suggested that we invite Town of Cortlandt officials
            to come to speak with us about their law to help us better understand
            what they were thinking.

            Village Attorney Whitehead stated that if she recalls the idea was to get
            the steep slopes revision on the books now and then continue to look at
            the rest of it further. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that what the
            Town of Cortlandt adopted was in reaction to a specific application and
            the steep slope issue was not their big focus, but the steep slopes
                                            5
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 6



            provision that Croton may be adopting is actually stronger than the Town
            of Cortlandt’s law. Village Attorney Whitehead stressed that everyone
            needs to do what is best for their municipality and recommended moving
            forward on this and continue to look at additional revisions.

            Trustee Gallelli stated that we have to be aware during our discussions,
            whether we proceed with this law or not, where we have similarities and
            where we have differences and while the Town of Cortlandt’s law may be
            applicable to them, it might not be applicable to Croton.

            Trustee Simon stated that he agrees we want to do more and reach out to
            the Town of Cortlandt, he also suggested bringing in Sustainable
            Westchester since they have some well-respected solar experts in this
            field, but he also agrees with Village Attorney Whitehead that steep slopes
            should be first and then figure out how we proceed with the other issues.

            Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Town of Cortlandt’s law does
            not prohibit ground mounted solar on moderate steep slopes provided
            that certain storm water mitigation plans are provided and believes that
            steep slopes are more of an issue for Croton.

            Mayor Pugh stated that since we are in consensus on steep slopes, he
            believes that we should adopt this as soon as possible, and after a more
            deliberate process we can make amendments to the law.

            Trustee Gallelli stated that we are in agreement that we want to look at
            all the aspects of the law and strengthen where appropriate, but the one
            we are dealing with tonight is important because it leaves open the
            possibility that if we do not pass this new provision and it takes us six
            months or longer to work out the other details, we could get another
            application during that period of time.

            Trustee Horowitz stated that maybe we should consider doing a
            Moratorium if that is why we are rushing this through.

            Trustee Gallelli stated that she does not believe we want to go the
            Moratorium route.

            Trustee Horowitz stated that she wants to go on record that she does not
            understand why we are not considering the law as a whole.

                                           6
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 7



             Trustee Nicholson stated that she agrees that we need solar going
             forward and believes our priorities should not be about how we can ban it
             entirely, but rather how we incentivize it, where to put it and how we can
             do it well in Croton.

             Village Engineer Dan O’Connor stated that he agrees with the Planning
             Board’s recommendation, this is part of a future revision package, and he
             believes there is no downside in adopting this now.

             Trustee Simon stated that the EAF narrative very articulately makes a
             point on the potential damage that can be derived from solar on steep
             slopes.

             EAF Narrative: The intent of the proposed action is to prohibit Tier 3 solar energy
             systems from being constructed on areas of Steep Slopes as defined in Chapter
             195. The Village Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson finds and declares it to
             be the public policy of the Village to preserve, protect and conserve its steep
             slopes so as to maintain and protect the natural terrain and its vegetative
             features, preserve wetlands, water bodies and watercourses, prevent flooding,
             protect important scenic views and vistas, preserve areas of wildlife habitat,
             provide safe building sites and protect adjoining property by preventing surface
             erosion, creep and sudden slope failure. The improperly managed disturbance of
             steep slopes can aggravate erosion and sedimentation beyond rates experienced
             in natural geomorphological processes. Erosion and sedimentation often include
             the loss of topsoil, a valuable natural resource, and can result in the disturbance
             of habitats, degradation of the quality of surface water, alteration of drainage
             patterns, the gullying of land, obstruction of drainage structures and
             intensification of flooding both on and off the subject site.

         4. LWRP Consistency Review and EAF Part II Review for Local Law
            Introductory No. 4 of 2023

SHORT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM PART 2 – IMPACT ASSESSMENT

                                                                                                     No, or   Moderate
                                                                                                     small     to large
                                                                                                     impact    impact
                                                                                                     may       may
                                                                                                     occur     occur
  1.   Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
       Regulations?                                                                                    √


                                                          7
           Village Trustees Board Meeting
           April 10, 2023
           Page 8



              2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?                        √
              3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing community?                        √
              4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics that caused the               √
                 establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?
              5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing level of traffic or                   √
                 affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walkway?
              6.   Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to incorporate              √
                   reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy opportunities?
              7. Will the proposed action impact existing:                                                                  √
                     a. public / private water supplies?
                       b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?                                                  √
              8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic, archaeological,            √
                 architectural or aesthetic resources?
              9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources (e.g., wetlands,                 √
                 waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

              10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage         √
                  problems?
              11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or human health?                      √

                                                          LWRP Consistency Review

                                                              WAC RESPONSE               VILLAGE BOARD
Policy   DEVELOPMENT POLICIES                           Applicable     Consistent     Applicable     Consistent       Comments
                                                        Yes/No         Yes/No         Yes/No         Yes/No
1        Restore, revitalize, and redevelop             No
         deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
         areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
         recreational, and other compatible uses
1A       Existing planning and zoning documents         Yes            Yes            Yes            Yes              Board Concurred
         should be reviewed and amended where
         necessary to ensure development within
         the community is consistent with adopted
         goals and policies
1B       Redevelop and revitalize Village owned         No
         land at the Metro North Train Station,
         including Village garage and bay area.
         Encourage integrated development of
         Village property to assure fulfillment of
         requirements relating to parking and
         accessory uses of Metro North Train
         Station, while facilitating public access to
         bay area and recreational use.
1C       Every effort should be made by the             No
                                                                       8
       Village Trustees Board Meeting
       April 10, 2023
       Page 9


     municipality to encourage the mutual
     cooperation and exchange of information
     between governmental agencies involved
     in clean-up of the Croton landfill and
     Metro-North lagoon in order to develop
     commercial use of resources found in the
     coastal area.
1D   Require restoration of deteriorating            No
     structures related to railroad use and
     assure appropriate maintenance and
     screening to reduce visual impact.
1E    Develop the old sewage treatment plant         No
      site at the intersection of Route 9A and
      Municipal Place.
2    Facilitate the siting of water dependent        No
     uses and facilities on or adjacent to coastal
     waters
2A    Expand restrictions on the use of power        No
      boats on the Hudson River and Croton
      River and Bay by further enforcing the
      parameters that regulate boat traffic such a
      speed, turbidity, safety, and mooring and
      sludge disposal. Such controls will further
      increase the compatibility of power boat
      use with other forms of recreation use
      within the coastal zone area.
3     The state coastal policy regarding the         No
      development of major ports is not
      applicable to Croton.
4     The state coastal policy regarding the         No
      strengthening of small harbors is not
      applicable to Croton.
5    Encourage the location of development in        No
     areas where public services and facilities
     essential to such development are
     adequate, except when such development
     has special functional requirements or
     other characteristics which necessitate its
     location in other coastal areas.
5A   When feasible, development within the           No
     Village should be directed within the
     current service area of existing water and
     sewer facilities or in close proximity to
     areas where distribution lines currently
     exist.
5B   The extension of water and sewer                No
     distribution lines beyond areas currently
     served should be undertaken cautiously
     and with prudent regard for Village water
     resources and the preservation of
     environmental values in undeveloped
     areas.
5C   Limit proposed development within those         No
     portions of the coastal zone boundary
     area, where traffic impacts such as site
     distance and carrying capacity of the
                                                          9
       Village Trustees Board Meeting
       April 10, 2023
       Page 10


     roadways are restricted, particularly along
     Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route
     129.
6    Expedite permit procedures in order to           No
     facilitate the siting of development
     activities at suitable locations.
6A   To expedite permit procedures, the Village       No
     shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
     a development package for applicants
     and/or make all local laws available to
     applicants proposing development
     activities.
     FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
7    Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats   No
     will be protected, preserved, and, where
     practical, restored so as to maintain their
     viability as habitats.
7A   The quality of the Croton River and Bay          No
     significant fish and wildlife habitat and
     Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
     habitat shall be protected and improved for
     conservation, economic, aesthetic,
     recreational, and other public uses and
     values. Its resources shall be protected
     from the threat of pollution, misuse, and
     mismanagement.
7B   Materials that can degrade water quality         No
     and degrade or destroy the ecological
     system of the Croton River and Bay
     significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
     Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
     habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed
     to drain in, or on land within, the area of
     influence in the significant fish and wildlife
     habitats.
7C   Storage of materials that can degrade            No
     water quality and degrade or destroy the
     ecological system of the Croton River and
     Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or
     Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
     habitat shall not be permitted within the
     area of influence of the habitat unless best
     available technology is used to prevent
     adverse impacts to the habitat.
7D   Restoration of degraded ecological               No
     elements of the Croton River and Bay and
     Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
     habitats and shore lands shall be included
     in any programs for cleanup of any
     adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
7E   Runoff from public and private parking lots      No
     and from storm sewer overflows shall be
     effectively channeled so as to prevent oil,
     grease, and other contaminants from
     polluting surface and ground water and
                                                           10
       Village Trustees Board Meeting
       April 10, 2023
       Page 11


     impact the significant fish and wildlife
     habitats.
7F   Construction activity of any kind must not      No
     cause a measurable increase in erosion or
     flooding at the site of such activity, or
     impact other locations. Construction
     activity shall be timed so that spawning of
     anadromous fish species and shellfish will
     not be adversely affected.
7G   Such activities must not cause degradation      No
     of water quality or impact identified
     significant fish and wildlife habitats
8    Protect fish and wildlife resources in the      No
     coastal area from the introduction of
     hazardous wastes and other pollutants
     which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
     which cause significant sub lethal or lethal
     effect on those resources.
9    Expand recreational use of fish and wildlife    No
     resources in coastal areas by increasing
     access to existing resources,
     supplementing existing stocks, and
     developing new resources. Such efforts
     shall be made in a manner which ensures
     the protection of renewable fish and
     wildlife resources and considers other
     activities dependent on them.
9A    Ensure continued recreational use and          No
      public access to the rivers through Village-
      owned land adjacent to the Metro-North
      parking lot, at Croton Point Park and at
      Senasqua Park, along the Croton River,
      and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts
      should be made to encourage recreational
      use of the fish and wildlife resources found
      in these areas by increasing the
      opportunities for public access and
      enjoyment
9B   Encourage passive recreational enjoyment        No
     of the wildlife in the designated significant
     fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon
     Society Sanctuaries, on other public or
     private lands within the Village, where
     wildlife habitats are located. Encourage
     the recreational use of areas where such
     resources are found, as well as the
     protection of such resources.
10    Further develop commercial finfish,            No
      shellfish and crustacean resources in the
      coastal area by encouraging the
      construction of new or improvement of
      existing on shore commercial fishing
      facilities, increasing marketing of the
      state's seafood products, maintaining
      adequate stocks, and expanding

                                                          11
        Village Trustees Board Meeting
        April 10, 2023
        Page 12


       aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall be
       made in a manner which ensures the
       protection of renewable fish and wildlife
       resources and considers other activities
       dependent on them.
      FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
11    Buildings and other structures will be sited      No
      in the coastal area so as to minimize
      damage to property and the endangering
      of human lives caused by flooding and
      erosion
11A   Erosion and sediment control measures             No
      shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
      persons, protect property, prevent damage
      to the environment, and promote the public
      welfare by guiding, regulating, and
      controlling the design, construction, use
      and maintenance of any development or
      other activity which disturbs or breaks the
      topsoil or results in earth movement.
12     Activities or Development in the coastal         No
       area will be undertaken so as to minimize
       damage to natural resources and property
       from flooding and erosion by protecting
       natural protective features including
       beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs.
       Primary dunes will be protected from all
       encroachments that could impair their
       natural protective capacity
12A    Every effort should be made to protect           No
       Croton Point, a natural protective barrier to
       Croton Bay from activities or development
       that would increase erosion of or flooding
       of the Point
13    The construction or reconstruction of             No
      erosion protection structures shall be
      undertaken only if they have a reasonable
      probability of controlling erosion for at least
      thirty years as demonstrated in design and
      construction standards and/or assured
      maintenance or replacement programs.
13A   Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be            No
      maintained in good condition and private
      landowners should be required to restore
      and maintain erosion control mechanisms
      along their river frontage which are
      designed for long term stability.
14    Activities and development, including the         No
      construction or reconstruction of erosion
      protection structures, shall be undertaken
      so that there will be no measurable
      increase in erosion or flooding at the site of
      such activities or development, or at other
      locations.
                                                             12
        Village Trustees Board Meeting
        April 10, 2023
        Page 13


15    Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal       No
      waters shall not significantly interfere with
      the natural coastal processes which supply
      beach materials to land adjacent to such
      waters and shall be undertaken in a
      manner which will not cause an increase in
      erosion of such land.
16     Public funds shall only be used for erosion    No
       protective structures where necessary to
       protect human life, and new development
       which requires a location within or
       adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
       able to function, or existing development;
       and only where the public benefits
       outweigh the long term monetary and
       other costs including the potential for
       increasing erosion and adverse effects on
       natural protective features
16A   Public funds shall be appropriated for the      No
      yearly maintenance of Senasqua Park until
      such time that is determined that
      expenditure of funds outweighs the cost of
      acquiring, constructing, and maintaining a
      similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
17    Whenever possible, use non-structural           No
      measures to minimize damage to natural
      resources and property from flooding and
      erosion. Such measures shall include: (i)
      the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
      the planting of vegetation and the
      installation of sand fencing and draining;
      (iii) the reshaping of bluffs; and (iv) the
      flood-proofing of buildings or their
      elevation above the base flood level.
17A   Efforts to control erosion along the rivers     No
      and on the steep slopes rising from areas
      inland shall be of a non-structural nature,
      wherever possible, in consideration of the
      visual impact of structural measures. The
      retention or planting of vegetative covers
      will be preferred to structural measures.
18    To safeguard the vital economic, social         No
      and environmental interests of the state
      and of its citizens, proposed major actions
      in the coastal area must give full
      consideration to those interests, and to the
      safeguards which the state has
      established to protect valuable coastal
      resource areas.
      PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
19     Protect, maintain, and increase the level      No
       and types of access to public water-related
       recreation resources and facilities so that
       these resources and facilities may be fully
       utilized in accordance with reasonably
       anticipated public recreation needs and
                                                           13
        Village Trustees Board Meeting
        April 10, 2023
        Page 14


       the protection of historic and natural
       resources. In providing such access,
       priority will be given to public beaches,
       boating facilities, fishing areas and
       waterfront parks.
19A   Encourage the linkage of open space            No
      along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in the
      form of a trail or walkway system. Such
      systems should be provided along
      undeveloped and underutilized land as
      well as along previously developed land.
19B   Increase physical access to areas that         No
      have specific value for their physical and
      visual access to the Hudson River or
      Croton River and Bay.
19C   Encourage the expansion of public              No
      transportation, when feasible, to areas
      within the coastal zone area where water
      dependent and water enhanced recreation
      activities are located.
19D   Increase access to Croton River and Bay        No
      at the Village-owned land south of the
      Village parking lots at the Croton-Harmon
      Station.
19E   Maintain the trail, which provides access to   No
      the Croton River waterfront, in its current
      undeveloped condition as a pedestrian
      walkway.
20    Access to the publicly owned foreshore         No
      and to lands immediately adjacent to the
      foreshore or the water's edge that are
      publicly owned shall be provided and it
      should be provided in a manner
      compatible with adjoining uses. Such
      lands shall be retained in public
      ownership.
21    Water dependent and water enhanced             No
      recreation will be encouraged, facilitated,
      and will be given priority over non-water
      related uses along the coast, provided it is
      consistent with the preservation and
      enhancement of other coastal resources
      and takes into account demand for such
      facilities. In facilitating such activities,
      priority shall be given to areas where
      access to the recreation opportunities of
      the coast can be provided by new or
      existing public transportation services and
      to those areas where the use of the shore
      is severely restricted by existing
      development.
21A   Boating activities should be encouraged        No
      provided that they do not restrict other
      recreational opportunities and are
      undertaken in a manner compatible with
      existing water-dependent uses.
                                                          14
        Village Trustees Board Meeting
        April 10, 2023
        Page 15


22    Development when located adjacent to the         No
      shore will provide for water-related
      recreation, as a multiple use, whenever
      such recreational use is appropriate in light
      reasonably anticipated demand for such
      activities and the primary purpose of the
      development
23    Protect, enhance and restore structures,         No
      districts, in areas of sites that are of
      significance in the history, architecture,
      archaeology or culture of the state, its
      communities or the nation.
24     Prevent impairment of scenic resources of       No
       statewide significance as identified on the
       coastal area map. Impairment shall
       include: (i) the irreversible modification of
       geologic forms, the destruction or removal
       of vegetation, the destruction, or removal
       of structures, whenever the geologic
       forms, vegetation or structures are
       significant to the scenic quality of an
       identified resource; and (ii) the addition of
       structures which because of siting or scale
       will reduce identified views or which
       because of scale, form, or materials will
       diminish the scenic quality of an identified
       resource.
25    Protect, restore or enhance natural and          Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Board Concurred
      man-made resources which are not
      identified as being of statewide
      significance, but which contribute to the
      overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
25A    Protect local scenic resources by               No
       preventing: (i) the irreversible
       modification of geologic forms, the
       destruction or removal of vegetation or
       wetlands, the destruction, or removal of
       structures, whenever the geologic forms,
       vegetation or structures are significant to
       the scenic quality of an identified
       resources; and (ii) the addition of
       structures which because of siting scale
       will reduce identified views or which
       because of scale, form, or materials will
       diminish the scenic quality of an identified
       resource.
25B   Secure the designation of the panoramic          No
      views from Croton Point as a scenic area
      of statewide significance.
25C   Secure the designation of Routes 9 and           No
      129 within the Croton boundaries as a
      scenic road. Ensure developments on or
      adjacent to Route 9 do not impair scenic
                                                             15
        Village Trustees Board Meeting
        April 10, 2023
        Page 16


      resources or views of or from the Hudson
      and Croton Rivers
25D   Establish and protect identified view-sheds     No
      which provide visual access to the Hudson
      River, including but not limited to the views
      of the Hudson River from the western
      shoreline of the Village, and from Prickly
      Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River
      Landing. In addition, protect view-sheds to
      and of the Croton River and Gorge.
26     The state coastal policy regarding the         No
       protection of agricultural lands is not
       applicable to Croton
      ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
      POLICIES
27     Decisions on the siting and construction of    No
       major energy facilities in the coastal area
       will be based on public energy needs,
       compatibility of such facilities with the
       environment, and the facility's need for a
       shorefront location.
28    Ice management practices shall not              No
      damage significant fish and wildlife and
      their habitats, increase shoreline erosion
      or flooding, or interfere with the production
      of hydroelectric power.
28A   Ice management practices must consider          No
      short and long-term impacts on the Croton
      River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay
      significant fish and wildlife habitats.
29    The state coastal policy regarding the          No
      development of energy resources is not
      applicable to Croton.
      WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
      POLICIES
30    Municipal, industrial, and commercial           No
      discharge of pollutants, including but not
      limited to, toxic and hazardous
      substances, into coastal waters will
      conform to state and national water quality
      standards.
30A   Existing rail services and transportation-      No
      related facilities shall not dispose any
      materials in coastal waters until such
      materials have been tested by the state for
      conformance with water quality standards.
30B   Storage and disposal of all materials shall     No
      be monitored by the state to assure there
      will be no discharge or leaching of
      materials into coastal waters.
31    State coastal area policies and purposes        No
      of approved local waterfront revitalization
      programs will be considered while
      reviewing coastal water classifications and
      while modifying water quality standards;
                                                           16
        Village Trustees Board Meeting
        April 10, 2023
        Page 17


      however, those waters already over-
      burdened with contaminants will be
      recognized as being a development
      constraint.
31A   Clean water is desired and NYSDEC                No
      should continually monitor water quality in
      the Hudson River and Croton Bay which
      have already been overburdened with
      pollutants. Recommendations for
      mitigation and upgrading water quality
      classifications cannot be determined
      without continual monitoring and testing of
      the waters.
32    Encourage the use of alternative or              No
      innovative sanitary waste systems in small
      communities where the costs of
      conventional facilities are unreasonably
      high, given the size of the existing tax base
      of these communities.
33    Best Management Practices will be used           No
      to ensure the control of storm water runoff
      and combined sewer overflows draining
      into coastal waters.
33A   Encourage new developments to retain             No
      storm water runoff on site so as to not
      increase flows within the existing system
      or to improve existing storm water runoff
      systems to that runoff from such
      developments does not adversely impact
      coastal waters
33B   Improve existing Village storm water             No
      discharge to control flow of pollutants from
      street and parking areas, etc. directly in
      the rivers.
34    Discharge of waste into coastal waters           No
      from vessels will be limited so as to protect
      significant fish and wildlife habitats,
      recreational areas and water supply areas.
34A   There shall be no discharge from moored          No
      structures or marine vessels, due to shape
      of cove and lack of tidal flushing.
35    Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in            No
      coastal waters will be undertaken in a
      manner that meets existing state dredging
      permit requirements, and protects
      significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic
      resources, natural protective features,
      important agricultural lands, and wetlands.
36    Activities related to the shipment and           No
      storage of petroleum and other hazardous
      materials will be conducted in a manner
      that will prevent or at lease minimize spills
      into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
      will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
      of such discharges; and restitution for
                                                            17
        Village Trustees Board Meeting
        April 10, 2023
        Page 18


      damages will be required when these spills
      occur.
37    Best Management Practices will be utilized      No
      to minimize the non-point discharge of
      excess nutrients, organics and eroded
      soils into coastal waters.
37A   Standards and specifications for the            No
      control of non-point source discharge as
      set forth in Westchester County's Best
      Management Practice Manual or other
      recognized reference shall be utilized
      during development of any site.
37B   Control of the development of hilltops, and     Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   Board Concurred
      steep slopes should be exerted in order to
      prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
      flooding from new construction.
38    The quality and quantity of surface water       No
      and ground water supplies will be
      conserved and protected, particularly
      where such waters constitute the primary
      or sole source of water supply.
39    The transport, storage, treatment and           No
      disposal of solid wastes, particularly
      hazardous wastes, within coastal areas
      will be conducted in such a manner so as
      to protect groundwater and surface water
      supplies, significant fish and wildlife
      habitats, recreation areas, important
      agricultural lands, and scenic resources.
39A   Require transporters, producers and             No
      storers of hazardous material to inform the
      public or allow public access to records
      involving the transport, storage, treatment,
      and disposal of hazardous materials. This
      is of particular concern with respect to rail
      transport of such materials, storage of
      identified materials on railroad property
      and uses in the waterfront area involved in
      the treatment, storage, and disposal of
      such materials.
39B   In accordance with Title III, Section 302,      No
      Emergency Planning and Community
      Right-to- Know of the 1986 Superfund
      Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
      planning committee and the Croton Fire
      Department shall be notified if hazardous
      substances exceed the established
      threshold planning quantity
40    Effluent discharged from major steam            No
      electric generating and industrial facilities
      into coastal waters will not be unduly
      injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
      conform to state water quality standards.
41    Land use or development in the coastal          No
      area will not cause national or state air
                                                            18
        Village Trustees Board Meeting
        April 10, 2023
        Page 19


      quality standards to be violated
41A   A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring           No
      station should be established within the
      Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
42    Coastal management policies will be            No
      considered if the state reclassifies land
      areas pursuant to the prevention of
      significant deterioration regulations of the
      Federal Clean Air Act.
43    Land use or development in the coastal         No
      area must not cause the generation of
      significant amounts of the acid rain
      precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
43A   Encourage the use of shuttle bus service       No
      to the train station, thereby decreasing
      dependency on the automobile use and
      reduce the generation of acid rain
      precursors
43B   Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil        No
      fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
      development of a monitoring program to
      assess rail vehicle engines emissions
44    Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater      No
      wetlands and preserve the benefits
      derived from these areas.
44A   Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses        Yes   Yes   Yes      Yes        Board Concurred
      shall be protected by preventing damage
      from erosion or siltation, minimizing
      disturbance, preserving natural habitats,
      and protecting against flood and pollution.



                 5. QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL

                      Email from Kevin Bellingham, 7 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asking
                      for information regarding the Katz property and the use of the labor force.

                      Mayor Pugh stated that he believes this is in response to the picketing that
                      has been happening periodically, there is a dispute between the
                      International Union of Operating Engineers and one of the sub-contractors
                      onsite, the Village has no direct power having sold the property, but a
                      dialogue has been arranged between both sides and we are hoping that
                      they can reach an agreement.

                 6. CORRESPONDENCE

                      a. Letter from Mark Teague, Grand Knight, Knights of Columbus Council
                         dated April 5, 2023, regarding the donation of a baseball/softball
                         batting cage at Firefighters Memorial Field.
                                                      19
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 20



                Resolution:

                On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the
                Board of Trustees accepted the donation of a baseball/softball batting
                age at Firefighters Memorial Field from the Knights of Columbus. The
                motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.

                Trustee Nicholson thanked them for their donation and especially for
                thinking about female athletes.

            b. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated April 6, 2023, on the
               Village’s response to the Public Service Commission regarding Clean
               Path New York.

                https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
                04/191f124d18795090a0ecf82696acc0fd37f9b599.pdf

                Resolution

                On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon the
                Board of Trustees approved Village Manager Healy’s letter being sent
                to the Public Service Commission. The motion was approved with a 5-0
                vote.

            c. Email from Fire Council Secretary John Munson regarding membership
               changes in the Croton Fire Department.

                https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
                04/84a2cbf715a58216e32f38e37e5cf89f2804dde3.pdf

            d. Letter from HOLTEC Decommissioning International, LLC, dated March
               28, 2023, regarding the notice of postponement of the layoff for Indian
               Point Energy Center.

                https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
                04/ac2fa7650664df98683d48b2f1ff75c1a97f3059.pdf

        7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - None

        8. RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution 71 of 2023
                                           20
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 21



On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS the Village’s Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Department provides
basic life support (BLS) ambulance service, but does not offer advanced life support
ambulance service (ALS), and

WHEREAS the Ossining Volunteer Ambulance Corps (OVAC) has been providing ALS
service to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson since 1996, and

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, the Village of Briarcliff Manor, and
OVAC have entered into an agreement to form a Tri-Community FLYCAR system
operating as OVAC ALSFR (Advanced Life Support First Response) dated May 2020,
and

WHEREAS an Addendum has been proposed to this agreement to offset potential
increases to the cost of the general EMT program,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Board of Trustees hereby approves the
FLYCAR Agreement Addendum and authorizes the Village Manager to execute the
Agreement Addendum and any other documentation as may be required to
facilitate the availability of this service in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

Resolution 72 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI and seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-
Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS the State of New York enacted Labor Law § 27-c, which requires public
employers to adopt a plan for operations if the Governor declares a public health
emergency involving a communicable disease, and

WHEREAS the Village Clerk prepared a health emergency plan in accordance with
the legislation, and

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees adopted the Public Employer Health
Emergency Plan for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson on March 15, 2021, and



                                        21
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 22



WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to amend the Public Employer
Health Emergency Plan, and

WHEREAS the proposed amendments were circulated on March 20, 2023, to the
collective bargaining units of the Village, the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, Local 456, and the Croton Police Association, as required by law for
review and comment, and

WHEREAS comments were received back from Local 456, which were responded to
and addressed,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts the amended Public Employer Health Emergency Plan for the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Clerk shall post the amended plan in the
necessary locations per the adopted legislation.

Resolution 73 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-
Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of
Agriculture that a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and

WHEREAS Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and

WHEREAS trees provide an abundance of environmental and aesthetic advantages
to citizens and wildlife, wherever they are found, and

WHEREAS trees in our Village increase property values, enhance the economic
vitality of business areas, and beautify our community, and

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been recognized as a Tree City
USA by the National Arbor Day Foundation since 1984 and desires to continue its
tree-planting program,




                                      22
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 23



NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, on behalf
of the Village Board of Trustees, does hereby proclaim April 28, 2023, as “Arbor
Day”, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that all residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson are
urged to support efforts to preserve our urban forests, cool our streets, clean our
air, reduce our carbon footprint, and improve our overall state of wellbeing.

DISCUSSION:

Village Manager Healy advised that the Village has applied for a program sponsored
by the Department of Environmental Conservation that provides saplings to nursery
schools, three schools in the Village were interested in the program and will be
planting those saplings in Vassallo Park as part of our Earth Day/Arbor Day
celebrations.

Resolution 74 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-
Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS the Town of Cortlandt hosts the Westchester County transfer station on
town property located on Roa Hook Road, and

WHEREAS the Town offers municipalities in the northern tier of the county the
opportunity to enter into agreements to allow them to utilize said transfer station,
and

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson makes use of the transfer station for
recyclable materials, and

WHEREAS the Village’s agreement with the Town for the use of the transfer station
expired as of March 31, 2023, and

WHEREAS the fee for this service will be $812 per month for the period of April 1,
2023, through March 31, 2024, with future yearly increases calculated in
accordance with the allowable levy growth factor under the property tax cap,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
sign the Inter-Municipal Agreement with the Town of Cortlandt for the use of the

                                        23
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 24



transfer station on Roa Hook Road for the period between April 1, 2023, and March
31, 2029.

Resolution 75 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-
Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS on February 9, 2023, the Village issued RFP 02-2023 for Stenographic
Services in the Justice Court, and

WHEREAS on March 20, 2023, the Village Board awarded the stenographic services
contract to All County Captions of Thornwood, New York, and

WHEREAS All County Captions has since withdrawn its proposal and is unable to
fulfill the contract, and

WHEREAS the Village Court Clerk has recommended S.A.C-D Steno Services to
perform this work, and

WHEREAS S.A.C-D Steno Services has proposed the following rates: $250/for a 5-
hour minimum Court Appearance ($45 after 5 hours), $350/for 5-hour minimum
non-jury trials ($50 per additional hour), $200 Bus Fee for Hearings/Trials,
$5.75/page for transcripts (10 business day turnaround), and $7.50/page for
transcripts (3-5 business day turnaround),

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to enter
into a contract with S.A.C-D Steno Services for stenographic work in the Village
Justice Court through May 31, 2024.

Resolution 76 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to utilize an armored car service
to provide the secure transport of the Village’s bank deposits; and



                                        24
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 25



WHEREAS, Brink’s Incorporated of Richmond, Virginia, has an armored car service
partnership with Webster Bank, the Village’s primary depository; and

WHEREAS the Village’s Earnings Credit is anticipated to cover all additional fees
incurred from utilizing the armored car service,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Services Agreement with Brink’s
Incorporated of Richmond, Virginia for armored transportation services.

Resolution 77 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is authorized, pursuant to New York
Village Law § 1-102, to acquire real property by gift, grant, bequest, or any other
lawful method, and

WHEREAS the Town of Cortlandt desires to convey the parcel at 60 Whelan Avenue
to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
accepts the parcel at 60 Whelan Avenue from the Town of Cortlandt, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to execute such
documents as may be necessary to give effect to this resolution.

DISCUSSION:

Village Manager Healy stated that we have discussed in the past the possibility of
using this piece of property for Veteran housing.

Mayor Pugh stated that we will need to study this further and while it is likely that
we will find people in this category, in the event we cannot, he would like to tier it
to possibly a first responder, and to also consider partnering with the Housing
Action Council to administer and oversee the application process.

Resolution 78 of 2023


                                         25
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 26



On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-
Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS the Department of Public Works provides a wide variety of services for the
Village; and

WHEREAS employee salaries are traditionally budgeted in a single departmental
account, Street Maintenance, and then allocated throughout the year in accordance
with payroll,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to make the following transfers in the General
Fund 2022-2023 budget to allocate funds for each of the Department of Public
Works based services below:

  GENERAL EXPENSES

   Increase
   A1620          1000            Buildings               $ 66,953.22

   A5183          1000            Public Works            $ 132,136.07
   A7140          1000            Community Rec           $ 831.21
   A8090          1000            Recycling               $ 108,784.74
   A8140          1000            Storm Sewer             $ 9,664.15
   A8160          1000            Refuse                  $ 69,115.33
   A8170          1000            Street Clean            $ 7,285.02
   A8560          1000            Shade Trees             $ 16,902.88
                                                 Total:   $ 411,072.62
   Decrease

   A5110          1000            Street Maint.           $ 411,072.62
                  Total:                  Total:          $ 411,072.62


Resolution 79 of 2023




                                       26
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 27



On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-
Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS the Village regularly charges various fees for services rendered or
permits issued, and

WHEREAS occasionally, mitigating circumstances            result   in   an   inability   or
unlikelihood of collecting said fees, and

WHEREAS the Village Treasurer is recommending writing off two accounts in the
General Fund as uncollectable, and

WHEREAS the total to be written off is $1,470,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes writing off of these two accounts in the amount of $1,470.

DISCUSSION

Village Treasurer Tucker advised that the $1,470 includes a $40.00 fee owed from a
business that is now closed and based on the amount and the likelihood of
collecting it, he believes it is prudent to write it off, the balance was a refuse pick-
up fee, but it was determined that this location did not actually receive the service.

Resolution 80 of 2023

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0 vote.

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson closed on the sale of the property
located at 41-51 Maple Street in December 2022, and

WHEREAS due to the closing, the Village received $2,000,000 in excess of the Fiscal
Year 2023 Budget leading to an expected surplus at the end of the fiscal year; and
WHEREAS, the Village has an adopted a Fund Balance Policy guiding and outlining
the use of surplus funds, and

WHEREAS the Fund Balance Policy refers to the use of reserve funds as a
component of the Village’s financial planning for lawful purposes; and WHEREAS,

                                          27
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 28



the Village of Croton-on-Hudson funds a Length of Service Award Program (LOSAP)
to provide a retirement benefit to qualifying volunteer firefighters based on service
in local fire companies; and WHEREAS, the Village Board finds it prudent to assign
fund balance as an additional contribution to the LOSAP fund,

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to move $100,000 of the Village’s fund balance to the LOSAP account.

DISCUSSION:

Village Manager Healy explained that our LOSAP account was well funded up until
last year, the account took a bit of a hit because of the stock market, and he
believes it is prudent to add additional funds at this time.

        9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS - none

        10.APPROVAL OF MINUTES:

            Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular meeting held
            on March 27, 2023, was made by Trustee Horowtiz. The motion was
            seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.

            Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on March 27,
            2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
            Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.

        11.QUARTERLY DEPARTMENTAL REPORTS:

            Village Clerk
            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            04/9ab230146a4c87c431cbf766345868a4fe944a9b.pdf

            DPW
            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            04/a3c9292a6dc775dacf08bbba1c40f73b418511b9.pdf

            Engineering
            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            04/a3c9292a6dc775dacf08bbba1c40f73b418511b9.pdf

            Justice Court


                                          28
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 29



            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            04/a0d935147ac219faea2d9fc1c0ffaa4f05c23fee.pdf

            Police
            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            04/e2056932de64e6422f69494a9e050bd9e3d8fb96.pdf

            Recreation
            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            04/9488288eb87d5cc62adb20f3fcee751cc9315809.pdf

            Parking
            https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023-
            04/c487777a625b1f1d0d624a1a58d7974c4247fb9d.pdf


        12. REPORTS:

            Trustee Nicholson advised that she attended the Vietnam Veterans
            Memorial ceremony, it was wonderfully done and wonderful to see all
            three communities come together to honor our Vietnam Veterans, the
            Police Survey is now closed and thanked Assistant to the Village Manager
            Emily Mancini for all her assistance in putting the information together.

            Trustee Simon advised that he attended a Fire Council meeting on March
            28th wherein we talked about the work the Village has done on the
            property tax assessment expansion for Fire and EMS, the Vietnam
            Veterans Memorial Ceremony was an amazing event and he was honored
            to have attended and to speak on behalf of the Village, the Water Control
            Commission and Waterfront Advisory Committee met and worked on the
            train station solar drainage system, participated in a joint Federal/New
            York State EPA webinar on upcoming grants, the Cannabis Board has
            issued five new licenses in the mid-Hudson region, and wished everyone a
            happy Easter, happy Passover and happy Ramadan.

            Trustee Gallelli advised that she attended the Vietnam Veterans Memorial
            celebration, it was a very memorable event, well attended and thanked
            everyone involved in putting it together. Trustee Gallelli reminded
            everyone of upcoming events which can be found on the Village’s website
            that include Spring Family Night, the Little League Parade, the 125th

                                          29
Village Trustees Board Meeting
April 10, 2023
Page 30



            Anniversary Committee      window    painting   contest   and   Earth   Day
            celebrations.

            Trustee Horowitz provided a run-down of upcoming community events
            being hosted by the Croton Free Library, Arboretum and Yacht Club, and
            as part of Croton’s 125th Anniversary the 125th Anniversary Committee
            will be holding an art exhibit from May 20th through June 17th, information
            can be found by going to their website: https://www.crotononhudson-
            ny.gov/croton-125th-anniversary-committee.

            Village Manager Healy advised that the Village is now able to accept credit
            cards in the office, the schedule for the summer concert series is available
            online, the Board will continue to review the 2023-24 Tentative Budget at
            their work sessions this Thursday and April 17th.

            There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to
            close the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was
            seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting
            was adjourned at 8:43 pm.

    Respectfully submitted,

    Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary

    _______________________
    Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk




                                           30
