WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, April 4, 2023 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT Ann Galelli, Chairperson

Steve Krisky

Len Simon

Leo Wiegman
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
ABSENT: Stuart Greenbaum

1) CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of April 4th, 2023 to order at 4:32 pm.

2) REFERRALS
a) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)

Consistency review for Local Law Introduction 4 of 2023 to amend Chapter 230, zoning, of
the Village Code to prohibit Tier 3 solar systems on steep slopes.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were no
changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes.

WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo attached.

Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency.

MOTION: Len Simon made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Leo Wiegman
and the motion carried, by a vote of 4-0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Len Simon made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of January 13th, 2023, seconded

by Leo Wiegman, and the motion carried by a vote of 3 — 0, with Steve Krisky recusing himself as he was
not on the WAC Committee at the time of the meeting.

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:42p.m.

Respectfully submitted, / App
Karen Stapleton ROVED

Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

*““Approved 4.26.23 by a vote of 4-0 with Stuart Greenbaum being absent***

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


Chairman

ANN GALLELLI
Members

STUART GREENBAUM
STEVE KRISKY
Croton-on-Hudson LEN SIMON

LEO WEIGMAN
Attorney

Waterfront Advisory Committee LINDA WHITEHEAD

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building Village Engineer
One Van Wyck Street DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.

Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501 Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

Village of

TO: Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees
FROM: Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE: Referral from Village Board for LWRP Consistency Review regarding Local Law
Introduction 4 of 2023 to amend Chapter 230, zoning, of the Village code to prohibit
Tier 3 solar systems on steep slopes

DATE: April 5, 2023

On April 4", 2023, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village’s
Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) a referral from the Village Board listed above. Based on
the Committee’s review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a
recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was all in favor, with Stuart Greenbaum being
absent.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and Short Environmental Assessment Form and no
changes were noted.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies were relevant:

POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and
policies.

POLICY 25: Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made resources which are not identified
as being of statewide significance, but which contribute to the overall scenic quality of the coastal
area.

POLICY 37B: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be exerted in order
to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new construction.

POLICY 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or sitation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural habitats and protecting
against flood and pollution.

The prohibition of Tier 3 solar energy ststems on steep slopes will provide enhanced protection of steep
slopes, natural resources and the overall scenic quality of these areas.

The WAC believes that the proposed revisions to the zoning code will not have any potentially significant
adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790
