Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Monday, April 24, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

The following Official was absent:
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. A Presentation of the Key to the Village was made to Jesse Beller in
recognition of exceptional service to the Village of Croton on Hudson.
3. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, claims numbered 22234550 through 22234804. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$237,793.78
$16,785.16
$8,802.57
$75,936.34

4. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Public Hearing #1
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 5
of 2023, adding a new Chapter to the Village Code to permit and set forth
procedures for videoconferencing by a public body was made by Trustee
Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with
a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 2

There being no comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Gallelli. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution 81 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to add a new Chapter to the
Village Code to permit and set forth procedures for videoconferencing by a public
body, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes,
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on April 24, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2023 to add a new Chapter to the Village
Code to permit and set forth procedures for videoconferencing by a public body,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2023, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
Videoconferencing Policy for Public Bodies as attached hereto.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon asked if we have a ballpark estimate of when this program will
become available to the public.
Village Manager Healy advised that the items for phase one of the project which is
to upgrade the televisions and the sound system are backordered, phase two of the
project that will allow for the hybrid meetings is being funded in the 2023-24
Capital Budget and we will have to wait until after June 1 st to move forward on that
aspect of the project.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that Boards cannot take advantage of this until
the technology is in place and the public has the ability to participate, but the first
step is to adopt the law, and then to put policy and procedures in place.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 3

Public Hearing #2
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider Introductory Local Law No.
6 of 2023 amending Chapter 215, Vehicles and Traffic, Section 215-47 of
the Village Code regarding towing for outstanding parking violations was
made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Horowitz
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution 82 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to clarify language related to
procedures for the towing and impoundment of vehicles with three or more
outstanding parking violation defaults, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes,
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on April 24, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2023, amending Chapter 215, Vehicles and
Traffic, of the Village Code regarding towing and impoundment for outstanding
parking violations, which upon adoption becomes Local Law Introductory No. 5 of
2023.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy referred to a question at the last meeting of whether or not
this was just for the train station parking lot or Village-wide and whether or not the
Village would need additional signage, after speaking with the Village Attorney it
was determined that the Village would have to put up signs at all entrance points if
we were going to enforce this law throughout the Village. Village Manager Healy

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 4

stated that as of now, the only location that has this signage is in the train station
parking lot and it is the only location we will be acting on.
Public Hearing #3
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
7 of 2023, amending Chapter 215 of the Village Code regarding speed
limits was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Comments:
Eric Ferguson, 2 Alexander Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that speeding
is a very serious issue, but does not believe that lowering the speed limit
will fix the problem, he is concerned it will have a negative effect of
criminalizing those that drive between twenty-six and twenty-nine miles
per hour and fall heavily on UPS, FedEx and Amazon drivers who earn
their livelihood by driving in the Village. Mr. Ferguson stated that there
are no safe speeds that children and cars can co-exist on public streets
and while he recognizes this is a valid concern, he supports traffic calming
initiatives as well as smart street designs.
Matthew Arnold, 51 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, thanked the
Board for considering this resolution and conducting the traffic study, the
traffic study had scores of studies in both the United States and Europe
that show the injury and fatality risks that speeds create and believes that
setting the bar at twenty-five miles per hour is a good measure for our
Village.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution 83 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-1 vote. Trustee Horowitz voting Nay.
WHEREAS the New York State Legislature recently enacted legislation permitting
Villages to lower their Village-wide speed limit from 30 MPH to 25 MPH, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 5

WHEREAS the Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee has studied this legislation and is
supportive of making such a change for the Village, and
WHEREAS the legislation requires that the Village undertake a traffic engineering
study before enacting such a change, and
WHEREAS DTS Provident Design Engineering, LLP, a licensed Professional
Engineering firm in the State of New York, has conducted a detailed Traffic
Engineering Study which makes recommendations and provides support for the
lowering of the Village-wide speed limit from 30 MPH to 25 MPH, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2023 has been drafted for such
purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on April 24, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2023 to amend Chapter 215 of the Village
Code, Vehicles and Traffic, regarding Speed Limits, which upon adoption becomes
Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2023.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Simon stated that the concerns that Mr. Ferguson shared during the
Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee meetings over the last few months helped him
understand how we should be approaching this, and he has discussed Mr.
Ferguson’s concerns with the Police Chief.
Trustee Gallelli stated that Mr. Ferguson has raised good issues, but on balance and
with the support of the DTS Provident Design Engineering Study she believes
moving forward with this change is the proper thing for the Village to do at this
time.
Trustee Horowitz read a section in the report that stated that “many engineering
studies regarding the impacts of the change in the speed limit in an area like Croton
have indicated that the speed limit change may have limited or no impact on actual
travel speeds on certain roads.” Trustee Horowitz stated that this statement does
not sound like a lot of support for changing the speed limit.
Village Manager Healy directed everyone to page six of the study wherein they give
support to lowering the speed limit to twenty-five miles per hour.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 6

To view the entire study, you may click on the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202304/31926007384bd9a8db00bf7933d3aefb9b032a0e.pdf
Mayor Pugh stated that lower speeds make crashes less likely and make the
crashes that do happen less dangerous, especially for pedestrians, and because
Police cannot be everywhere, we will continue to look at traffic calming initiatives,
but believes this proposal makes sense as a pro-safety measure at this time.
5. QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL
6. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Email from Emily Edmonds-Langham, Director of Education for
Teatown dated April 12, 2023, requesting to conduct trout releases at
Silver Lake, May 1st to May 11th.
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees approved the request from Teatown to conduct their
trout release program in Silver Lake. The motion was approved with a
5-0 vote.
b. Letter from Basil Seggos, NYS DEC Commissioner dated April 14,
2023, regarding a grant in the amount of $149,266.78 for 12 charging
stations through the Municipal Zero-Emission Vehicle (ZEV)
infrastructure Grant Program.
c. Letter from Joanna Straub, Co-Leader of Girl Scouts Troop 2523 dated
April 14, 2023, regarding a donation of $200.00 towards the Merwin
Oak replacement tree at Vassallo Park.
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Gallelli the
Board of Trustees accepted the donation of $200.00 from Girl Scout
Troop 2523 for a tree to be planted at Vassallo Park. The motion was
approved with a 5-0 vote.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 7

Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he supports
the hiring of a new police officer, does not support the purchase of
$180,000 rescue boat, does not support using bicycles for Police patrol and
suggested the Village and School share facilities to save money.
Sara Boyce, 140 Benedict Blvd, Croton on Hudson, said that she agrees
that video conferencing makes sense in certain extraordinary
circumstances such as disability, illness, and caregiving, but the law also
talks about other factors and asked for a more detailed explanation of
what those are. Ms. Boyce asked Mayor Pugh if his new job as Chief of
Staff for Senator Harckham would preclude him from attending meetings.
Village Manager Healy explained that extraordinary circumstances refer to
something unexpected that may happen, like a Board member’s vehicle
breaking down, or issues with public transportation that preclude them
from getting to the meeting.
Mayor Pugh stated that all of our Board members expect to be inattendance at every Board meeting, this proposed law will enable a
member to attend a meeting via video conferencing in the event of an
unintended circumstance. Mayor Pugh stated that with respect to his new
job, he has not missed any regular meetings since taking on this position
and does not foresee having to use video conferencing often.
Trustee Nicholson stated that the adoption of the law is one step in the
process, the Board still needs to establish policies and procedures.
Trustee Gallelli stated that occasionally because of holidays where we have
changed our meetings to other nights, there may be an occasion where a
Board member would not be able to attend.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that this is in accordance with State Law
as well as the amendments to the Open Meetings Law that were adopted
last year.
Matthew Rubenstein, 105 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, thanked the
Board for considering the resolution adopting a “Home Rule” request for a
Residential Parking Permit System for the Croton River area. Mr.
Rubenstein stated that this is the permanent solution that he and his
neighbors have wanted for several years.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 8

Comments received via email:
Edward Lakatos, 122 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson stated that he
supports the parking restrictions on Truesdale Drive and the area near the
Croton River.
Carolyn and Robert Whiting, 7 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson stated
that they are not in favor and would like the Village to consult with the
residents.
Joel Gingold, 55 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, strongly urges the
Board not to take any action and to meet with the residents.
Paul and Sonia Kleinman, 71 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson stated that
they are in favor of the parking restrictions for this area.
Rory Stuart, 101 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
supports the Residential Parking Permit System for this area.
Marion Lakatos, 120 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
supports the parking restrictions for Nordica and Truesdale as well as the
streets near the Croton River.
John Munson, 11 Emerson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, is asking the Board
to reconsider the purchase of electric bikes for Croton EMS, he believes the
funds would be better spent on hiring a second EMT or a driver to fulfill
their crew needs.
Executive Session
On motion by Trustee Nicholson and seconded by Trustee Gallelli
the Board of Trustees approved entering into an Executive Session
on a matter regarding public safety. The motion was approved with
a 5-0 vote.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Horowitz the
Board of Trustees approved closing the Executive Session. The
motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution 84 of 2023

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 9

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
BUDGET ADOPTION RESOLUTION

A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR
COMMENCING ON JUNE 1, 2023, AND ENDING MAY 31, 2024,
MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE CONDUCT OF THE VILLAGE
OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON GOVERNMENT AND ESTABLISHING THE
RATES OF COMPENSATION FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES FOR
SUCH PERIOD.
WHEREAS this Board has met at the time and place specified in the notice of public
hearing on the preliminary budget and heard all persons desiring to be heard
thereon,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the preliminary budget as amended and
revised and as hereinafter set forth is hereby adopted and that the several amounts
stated in column titled “Adopted” in Schedule
A1 - General Fund,
F1 - Water Fund,
G1 - Sewer Fund,
HN1 – Capital Fund,
7 - Debt Service,
be adopted and hereby are appropriated for the objects and purposes specified and
the salaries and wages stated in Schedule 5 of such budget shall be and are hereby
fixed at the amounts shown therein effective June 1, 2023.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that she highly endorses this Budget and congratulated
Village Manager Healy, Village Treasurer Tucker, Village staff and her fellow Board
members for all their hard work in putting together a Budget with a flat rate.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 10

Trustee Simon echoed Trustee Gallelli’s comments, it was a rigorous process and
appreciates all the hard work that the staff and Board put into it, we enter our new
Fiscal Year on June 1st in great shape and is looking forward to a great year under
this Budget.
Trustee Horowitz congratulated everyone for a great job.
Mayor Pugh stated that this Budget gives a zero increase in the tax rate, and only
those residents whose assessment has increased from last year will see an increase
in their taxes. Mayor Pugh stated that this Budget includes a $11.3 million Fund
Balance, a $2.4 million reduction in the Village’s indebtedness, and a $1.2 million
Capital Budget for general road repair, these are big numbers, but they are the
product of deliberate policy decisions over a number of years that include
expanding our tax base and working closely with our overlapping levels of
government to ensure that Village residents get more of their State and Federal tax
dollars back. Mayor Pugh thanked his colleagues who made this possible and
helped create a strong fiscal foundation.
Village Manager Healy thanked the Board and all the Department Heads for their
assistance over the last few months, he is also pleased to advise that decreases in
rates in the New York State Health Insurance program of 2.7 percent saved the
Village additional funds and as a result we were able to lower the use of the Fund
Balance by $25,000.
Resolution 85 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ and seconded by SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
with a 5-0 vote.
BE IT RESOLVED, the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to place the following
past due receivables from fiscal year 2022-2023 for the general fund on the tax
bills for the fiscal year June 1, 2023, through May 31, 2024:
GENERAL FUND
ALARM FEES

$ 3,400.00

COMMERCIAL GARBAGE
TOTAL

$ 4,810.00
$8,210.00

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 11

WATER and SEWER FUNDS
UNPAID WATER AND SEWER CHARGES

$ 92,918.98

Resolution 86 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003, and
WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village fees through Board
Resolutions, and
WHEREAS it is to the benefit of both the Village and the general public to have all
fees conveniently placed in one schedule, which may be amended from time to
time, and
WHEREAS a Master Fee Schedule was adopted on October 7, 2003, and has since
been modified a number of times,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts the attached updated Master Fee Schedule effective June 1, 2023.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Horowitz asked why Fall Festival fees are different from Summerfest fees
since they are now both Village run. Trustee Horowitz also questioned the different
fee structure for food and alcohol vendors at various functions.
Village Manager Healy explained that the Fall Festival fees were set at that time in
coordination with the Croton Business Council, the Summerfest fees are set in
March by a separate resolution, but if the Board chooses, we change the fees to
match.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 12

Trustee Simon stated that he believes fees are always evolving and suggested
setting a time to review the festival fees.
Resolution 87 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor is hereby authorized to sign the Tax Warrant for
the collection of taxes for the period beginning June 1, 2023, through May 31, 2024
TAX WARRANT
TO: Daniel Tucker, Treasurer
YOU ARE HEREBY COMMANDED to receive and collect from the persons
named in the tax roll hereunto annexed, the several sums stated in the last
column hereof opposite their respective names, being a total of
$12,972,573.98.
For the current budget

$12,834,004

For Supplemental Tax Bills
Sub-total

$37,441
$12,871,445

For Unpaid Water Rents and Charges

$92,918.98

For Alarms

$3,400.00

For Commercial Garbage

$4,810.00

TOTAL

$12,972,573.98

FURTHER COMMANDED to receive and collect such sums without additional charge
until July 1, 2023, and thereafter to collect such of the sums as have not been
theretofore collected, an additional charge of five per centum for the first month or

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 13

fraction thereof and one percent for each month or fraction thereof thereafter until
paid.
YOU ARE FURTHER COMMANDED to return the tax roll and warrant to the Village
Clerk on or before the first day of February, 2024, and to deliver to the Board of
Trustees at the same time an account of the taxes remaining unpaid: describing
each parcel of real property upon which taxes are unpaid, showing the person or
persons to whom the parcel is assessed and showing as to each parcel the amount
of tax unpaid.
Resolution 88 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory No.
4 of 2023 to amend the Zoning Code of the Village to prohibit the construction of
Tier 3 solar systems on steep slopes, and
WHEREAS on March 20, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has issued an Environmental Assessment Form Parts 1,
2 and 3 thereto together with a Coastal Assessment Form in connection with the
proposed action, and
WHEREAS in connection with the proposed action the Village Board is required to
make a “Determination of Consistency” with the LWRP policy standards and
conditions, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has duly referred this matter to the Village Waterfront
Advisory Committee which has made and provided in writing to the Village Board a
recommendation of consistency with the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has reviewed each of the forty-four policies and subpolicies thereunder set forth in the LWRP and the explanation of each policy as set
forth in the LWRP,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
issues and adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 14

hereto and adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
confirms its determination that the proposed action, adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 4 of 2023 to amend the Zoning Code of the Village to prohibit the
construction of Tier 3 solar systems on steep slopes, complies with the policy
standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP.
Resolution 89 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Section 230-48.1 of
the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code to prohibit the construction of Tier 3 solar
systems on steep slopes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 4 of 2023 which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on March 20, 2023, the Village Board determined that the Proposed
Action is an Unlisted Action, declared itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes, and issued the Short Environmental Assessment Form (EAF) and a
Coastal Assessment Form (CAF) in connection with the Proposed Action, and
WHEREAS the Westchester County Planning Board, Village Planning Board, and the
Waterfront Advisory Committee have submitted memorandums in support of the
local law, and
WHEREAS a public hearing was opened and closed on April 10, 2023, and
WHEREAS on April 24, 2023, the Board of Trustees issued a negative declaration
under SEQRA and adopted a statement of consistency with regards to the Village’s
LWRP,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 4 of 2023 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code to prohibit Tier 3 solar systems on steep slopes, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 7 of 2023.
DISCUSSION:

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 15

Trustee Simon said that this is a very good start and as discussed in previous
meetings and as suggested by our Planning Board, there is some additional work
that we can do similar to what the Town of Cortlandt has done and to also look at
what some of our neighboring communities have done as well.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she is in favor of prohibiting the construction of Tier 3
solar installations on steep slopes greater than fifteen percent, but going forward
she strongly encourages the Board to seriously consider additional actions that
would further strengthen our solar law.
Resolution 90 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has received a request from Camp Nabby of Mohegan Lake,
New York, to use a portion of Lot A at the Croton-Harmon Train Station Parking Lot,
and
WHEREAS the use of the parking lot shall be limited to 15 minutes each in the
morning and the afternoon for the drop-off and pick-up of campers, and
WHEREAS Camp Nabby has agreed to pay $27 per day, or $1,026 for the camp
season for use of the parking lot,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorize the Village Manager to execute the agreement with Camp Nabby to
authorize the use of a portion of Lot A at the Croton-Harmon Train Station Parking
Lot in the amount of $1,026 for the period beginning June 27, 2023, through
August 18, 2023.
Resolution 91 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS a Project for the NY-17 Half Moon Bay Bridge (BIN 2270050)
Reconstruction Project, PIN 8763.05 (the “Project") is eligible for funding under
Title 23 U.S. Code, as amended, that calls for the apportionment of the costs such

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 16

program to be borne at the ratio of 80% Federal funds and 20% non-federal funds,
and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to advance the Project by
making a commitment of 100% of the non-federal share of the costs of Preliminary
Engineering,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby approves the
above-subject project, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson to pay in the first instance 100% of the federal and non-federal
share of the cost of Preliminary Engineering work for the Project or portions
thereof, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the sum of $400,000 is hereby appropriated in
Capital Project Account H5110.2106.15287 and made available to cover the cost of
participation in the above phase of the Project, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in the event the full federal and non-federal share
costs of the project exceeds the amount appropriated above, the Village Board shall
convene as soon as possible to appropriate said excess amount immediately upon
the notification by the Village Manager thereof, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Manager of the Village of Croton-onHudson be and is hereby authorized to execute all necessary Agreements,
certifications or reimbursement requests for Federal Aid and/or applicable
Marchiselli Aid on behalf of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson with the New York
State Department of Transportation in connection with the advancement or
approval of the Project and providing for the administration of the Project and the
municipality's first instance funding of project costs and permanent funding of the
local share of federal-aid and state-aid eligible Project costs and all Project costs
within appropriations therefore that are not so eligible, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in addition to the Village Manager, the
Superintendent of Public Works and
the Village Treasurer are also hereby
authorized to execute any necessary Agreements or certifications on behalf of the
Municipality/Sponsor with NYSDOT in connection with the advancement or approval
of the project identified in the State/Local Agreement, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 17

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a certified copy of this resolution be filed with the
New York State Commissioner of Transportation by attaching it to any necessary
Agreement in connection with the Project, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this Resolution shall take effect immediately.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Gallelli stated that these funds were earmarked years ago and thanked
Congressman Jones for managing to get these funds back to Croton.
Trustee Simon also thanked former Congressman Jones for helping Croton to get
these funds, and credited the coordination of the USDOT, the NYSDOT and the
Village in getting this far in less than five months after the funding was approved.
Resolution 92 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWTIZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village, from time to time, requires vehicular towing and storage
services in connection with illegally parked vehicles; and
WHEREAS, the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Chapter 215, Section 47,
authorizes the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police Department to remove or provide
for the removal of vehicles with three or more Village parking violation defaults;
and
WHEREAS the Village desires to utilize multiple towing companies, including
Contractor, to perform professional motor vehicle towing and storage services for
Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police Department initiated service requests; and
WHEREAS, the Village has come to an agreement with the following tow companies:
Luposello’s Inc., Nappy Auto Body, Hudson View Automotive, and A&P Towing,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized
to sign the agreements for towing and storage services in connection with illegally
parked vehicles with Luposello’s Inc., Nappy Auto Body, Hudson View Automotive,
and A&P Towing.
Resolution 93 of 2023

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 18

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on January 4, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees adopted a resolution
affirming its support for a residential parking permit system in areas near the
Croton River: Truesdale Drive, Nordica Drive and Cedar Lane, as well as Old Post
Road South from Truesdale Drive to Morningside Drive, and
WHEREAS this permit system has been deemed necessary due to the large number
of individuals who park along these roadways and attempt to access the Croton
River and Croton Gorge Unique Area through private property, and
WHEREAS the Village’s elected state representatives, Assemblywoman Dana
Levenberg and State Senator Peter Harckham, have introduced companion bills in
the state legislature to establish a residential parking permit system in this area,
and
WHEREAS the Village is required to formally submit a home rule request to the
legislature,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
requests a residential parking permit system be enacted in the Village of Croton-onHudson under the state’s home rule authority, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this home rule request be sent to State
Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg and State Senator Peter Harckham.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that we are on a very tight timeline since the Legislative session
ends the first week in June, if this is approved by the State Legislature it would
create options for the Village and emphasized that during this time, we will continue
to have open dialogue with the residents in this area.
Trustee Simon stated that it could take months before we know if the resolution is
approved, and he looks forward to the opportunity to engage in conversations with
the community.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 19

Trustee Gallelli stated that she supports moving ahead with this resolution,
assuming it is passed by the State Legislature, the Board will then have options,
and looks forward to meeting with the residents.
Trustee Horowitz stated that she supports moving forward on this resolution but
also stressed that we schedule an in-person neighborhood conversation as quickly
as possible where concerns can be heard, and strategies can be considered.
Mayor Pugh proposed a tentative date for a work session for Thursday, May 4,
2023, at 7:30pm.
Resolution 94 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is committed to maintaining,
developing, and promoting a diverse multi-modal transportation system serving the
needs of all Village residents and visitors in coordination with local, county, and
regional partners to reduce carbon emissions while improving the local economy,
the community, and the environment, and
WHEREAS the term “Complete Streets” describes a comprehensive, integrated
transportation network with infrastructure and design that allow safe and
convenient travel along and across streets for all users, including pedestrians,
bicyclists, persons with disabilities, motorists, movers of commercial goods, users
and operators of public transportation, seniors, children, youth, and families, and
WHEREAS a Complete Streets Policy addresses the livability needs of our
community with multipurpose streets that better and more safely accommodate
users of all ages and abilities, and
WHEREAS a Complete Streets Policy addresses the environmental needs of our
community by reducing the environmental impact of our transportation
infrastructure by incorporating design, construction, operating and maintenance
strategies to reduce waste, storm water run-off, and energy consumption, and
WHEREAS Complete Streets improve public health and safety by reducing the risk
of injuries and fatalities from traffic collisions for users of all modes of
transportation, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 20

WHEREAS in light of the foregoing benefits and considerations, the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson wishes to improve its commitment to Complete Streets and
desires that its streets form a comprehensive and integrated transportation network
promoting safe, equitable, and convenient travel for all users while preserving
flexibility, recognizing community context, and using the latest and best design
guidelines and standards,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, as follows:
(1)That the Village of Croton-on-Hudson adopts the Complete Streets Policy
(“Policy”) attached hereto.
(2)As feasible, the Village shall incorporate Complete Streets infrastructure into
existing streets to improve the safety and convenience of all.
(3)The Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee shall be afforded the
opportunity by the Complete Streets Policy Coordinator to provide comments
and recommendations regarding Complete Streets features to be
incorporated into a project.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Simon stated that the Bicycle/Pedestrian Committee has been working on
this for a couple of years, the resolution speaks for itself and will put the Village in a
better position for future funding for a variety of programs.
Village Manager Healy advised that Superintendent of Public Works Frank Balbi has
agreed to serve as the coordinator, and while adopting this policy is good, the
Village has already been working on a number of these recommendations.
Trustee Horowitz stated that this is a very forward-looking ambitious outline and a
great blueprint for the Village and believes that Superintendent Balbi is the perfect
person to take the lead.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Village has taken on a number of pro-pedestrian
initiatives and is pleased that Superintendent Balbi has volunteered to assume the
role of coordinator.
Resolution 95 of 2023

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 21

On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the New York State Legislature established the Senior Citizen Rent
Increase Exemption (SCRIE) program in 1970 to protect low-income tenants aged
62 and over from certain rent increases in rent controlled and rent stabilized
apartments, and
WHEREAS in October 2005 the New York State Legislature established the Disability
Rent Increase Exemption (DRIE) program, which protects eligible disabled tenants
from rent increases as well, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson finds it in the public interest to adopt
legislation in accordance with the enabling legislation enacted by the State
Legislature with respect to tax abatements of real property taxes for senior citizens
and disabled persons living in rent-regulated/rent-controlled properties, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2023 has been drafted for such purposes
and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED That the Village Board hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on Monday, May 8, 2023, at 7 p.m. in the Georgianna Grant Meeting
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider the adoption of
Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2023 to amend Article VIII of the Village Code, Tax
Abatement for Rent-Controlled and Rent-Regulated Property occupied by Certain
Senior Citizens or Persons with Disabilities.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that since this law was last amended in 2014, there
were word changes on the State level and Village Attorney Whitehead recommends
that we repeal the text of our Code and indicate that the Village is following the
New State law.
Resolution 96 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 22

WHEREAS on March 8, 2023, a contractor performed a jet cleaning and video
inspection of the sewer main running along South Riverside Avenue into the
Municipal Place facility, and
WHEREAS during the cleaning, a very thick coating of grease was removed from the
pipe, and
WHEREAS video inspection revealed small gaps in the pipe joints caused by tree
root intrusion, and
WHEREAS to prevent future root damage and grease build up, Superintendent of
Public Works Frank Balbi has recommended performing Cured-in-Place-Pipe lining
of the main, which involves coating and strengthening the walls of the existing main
with a plastic liner, and
WHEREAS Green Mountain Pipeline Services Inc. of Bethel, Vermont has provided a
proposal for this work in the amount of $56,700, and
WHEREAS total funding for these expenses was not included in the 2022-2023
General Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to transfer $56,700 from Sewer Fund Contingency
Account G1990.4000 to the following account:
G8120.4700 – Sanitary Sewers – Equipment Repairs:

$56,700

Resolution 97 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson funds or reimburses the local fire
companies for shared internet service at the firehouse, and
WHEREAS the Chemical Engine Company, housed in the Grand Street firehouse
located at 154 Grand Street, has not been reimbursed for internet service since
January of 2019, and
WHEREAS payment for service by the Village requires proper documentation of
payment and request for reimbursement, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 23

WHEREAS the cost to reimburse the firehouse for the internet was not included in
the 2022-2023 General Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to transfer $2,037.45 from Contingency Account
A1990.4000 to the following account:
A3410.4000

Fire - Contractual

$2,037.45

Resolution 98 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Power Take-Off system in a garbage truck has failed and needs
repair, and
WHEREAS the Superintendent of Public Works has requested $5,000 to cover
replacement parts and repair costs for the remainder of the fiscal year, and
WHEREAS total funding for these expenses was not included in the 2022-2023
General Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to transfer $5,000 from Contingency Account
A1990.4000 to the following account:
A1640.4710 Central Garage – Vehicle Repairs

$5,000

Resolution 99 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS parking regulations at the Croton-Harmon Train Station are enforced by
five part-time parking enforcement officers, and
WHEREAS when the 2022-2023 Budget was adopted, the Village anticipated lower
activity at the Croton-Harmon Train Station due to the impact of the pandemic, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 24

WHEREAS the activity at the Train Station has been higher than anticipated, leading
to the parking enforcement officers working more hours than what had been
budgeted for, and
WHEREAS total funding for these expenses was not included in the 2022-2023
General Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following budget amendment to the 2022-2023 General Fund budget as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A5650.1100 – Off-Street Parking – pers.

$25,000

GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A5650.1730 – Off-Street Parking

$25,000

9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, expressed his concerns
over whether or not our recycling is actually being recycled, addressed the
current inflation rate and the effects on the housing market as well as the
effects of illegal immigration and suggested that Mayor Pugh may have a
possible conflict of interest because of his new job as Chief of Staff for
Senator Harckham.
10.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular meeting held on April 10,
2023, was made by Trustee Horowtiz. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on April 14,
2023, was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 25

Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on April 17,
2023, was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11.

REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson advised that a televised Town Hall meeting will be held
on May 30th at 7:00pm to discuss the results of the Police survey.
Trustee Simon advised that he attended the Little League parade, Boy
Scout Hour of Light Ceremony, Washington Engine Company solar roof
dedication, Drug Take Back Day, and a Housing Conference in Rockland
County, the April 18th Planning Board meeting welcomed Metro Physical
Therapy to the Village, finalized the work with Croton on Hudson
Distillers, and made some adjustments to the Site Plan at 41-51 Maple
Avenue.
Trustee Simon stated that we do not control the world of recycling, but we
are extremely proud of our recycling program and what we do here in
Croton, our DPW staff works extremely hard at it, and as a community we
try to do our part and thanked all the homeowners.
Trustee Simon stated that upward of ninety-nine percent of local
government officials around the country serve on a part-time basis, of
that amount ninety-five percent have full time jobs at various levels of
government.
Trustee Gallelli advised that she attended the ribbon cutting at
Washington Engine Company in recognition of their solar array project
and thanked the Sustainable Committee for securing these funds which
will generate $7,000-$10,000 in electrical savings.
Trustee Horowitz advised that the Lot A Task Force met, and reviewed the
RFP and shared lots of ideas of things that may be included going
forward.
Mayor Pugh stated that the position of Mayor and Trustee are part-time
positions and many past and present Mayors and Trustees have held full
time jobs while serving on the Board. Mayor Pugh advised that there are

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2023
Page 26

provisions in State law and in our own Code that govern conflicts of
interest and we follow all those regulations.
Village Manager Healy stated that Croton’s paper and co-mingled
recycling goes to the Westchester County Transfer Station and while there
was a crisis in recycling in recent years, the problems that Westchester
County had was not unique to what was happening throughout the
Country. Village Manager Healy stated that we strive to recycle what we
can, our leaves and yard waste materials are recycled with the Town of
Cortlandt, we now have a food scrap recycling program, and we will
continue to promote recycling wherever we can.
Village Manager Healy advised that as part of our Arbor Day celebrations,
one tree will be planted at Duck Pond, three trees at Veterans Corners
and two trees along Grand Street.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting
was adjourned at 10:00 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

