VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
DRAFT MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2023

PRESENT: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
Jim Tuman
Rocco Mastronardi
Daron Weber
Doug Olcott
ALSO PRESENT: Ronald Wegner, PE, Assistant Village Engineer
Len Simon, Board of Trustee Liaison
Nora M. Nicholson, Board of Trustee Liaison

1.

CALL TO ORDER
Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting to order at 8:01 p.m.

2.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Sharkey, Lorraine—76 Morningside Drive—Located in a RA-9 Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 6 Lot
6. Request for a variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40A(1) for a proposed
carport and existing shed located in a front yard, Section 230-40A(1)(a) for a proposed
carport and existing shed set back less than 5’ ft from any lot line and Section 230-40B for a
proposed carport and existing shed nearer to the street than the primary structure.

PRESENT: Lorraine Sharkey, Owner
Lewis Roane, Architect
Chairperson Wagner opened the meeting by reminding the Board and the public that the
application was a continuation of the previous Zoning Board meeting held on February 8th 2023
and that the public meeting remained open. Chairperson Wagner shared that the Board members
had individually visited the site at the above-mentioned property to gain a better understanding of
the placement of the proposed project. Chairperson Wagner asked the applicant to give a brief
overview of the proposed carport since Mr. Olcott was not present at the meeting where the
project was first presented to the Board.
Mr. Roane stated that his client, Ms. Sharkey was looking to construct a car port in the front of
her property where the existing driveway is. Mr. Roane stated that they are requesting both a side
yard and a front yard variance to construct a carport of which will sit a couple of feet from the
front and side yard property line.
Mr. Roane explained (referencing pictures provided to the Board) that there is a low stone wall on
the right of the property and that they would take a portion of it apart to lay the foundation, then
rebuild the stone wall and put the columns on top of the wall; on the left-hand side there is also a
1

stone wall that stops short but that they would be slightly extending that wall where another column
would be placed. Mr. Roane further explained the placement of the front columns. Mr. Roane
shared that they are only looking to cover the parking area for one car. The Board asked for more
information regarding the existing shed including how long it had been on the property.
Ms. Sharkey stated it had only been there for a year or so and added that it is a plastic shed with one
bike inside. Ms. Sharkey stated that the shed is movable if necessary and holds one bike but that
where it is currently located makes for easy accessibility. Mr. Roane added that the carport is
proposed to be in front of the shed which would help to screen the view of the shed from the street.
Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer added that he visited the site and took pictures of the
property where the proposed carport would be placed. Mr. Wegner stated that the front of the
carport would be approximately 6 or 7 feet in from the street line.
The Board then discussed the specifics of the setback measurements for the front yard and side yard
including the 1.8’ft that accounted for the roof overhang of the carport and the 3.3ft side yard
setback request for an accessory structure (shed).
Chairperson Wagner then stated that the public hearing was still open an asked if anyone wanted to
be heard on the application. Hearing no comment from the public, the public hearing was closed.

The Zoning Board of Appeals then reviewed and discussed the Five Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance, in part based on the existence of
similar carports in the area and the topography.
The Board noted that the carport would not be out of character for the neighborhood as there are
similar carports located on Morningside (44 Morningside was also granted a variance for a carport in
the front yard).
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance; due to the unique topography of the lot.
The Board agreed that the size and slope of the property does not allow for an alternate location for
the carport. The Board also discussed the existing shed. The Board agreed that while the shed could
be moved it would have to be down a slope and set of steps which would make it difficult to get the
bikes out and to the street. Moreover, the carport and any car parked under it would decrease the
visibility of the shed from the street.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

2

Chairperson Wagner made a motion to grant a front yard setback variance of 2.3’ft and a side
yard setback variance of 3.3’ ft for an accessory structure (carport) and a side yard setback
variance of +/-3’ft for an accessory structure (shed) as well as variances for both of these
structures to be placed in a front yard setback nearer to the street than the principal building. The
motion was seconded by Mr. Tuman. All in Favor. Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner, yes. Mr.
Olcott, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman yes, Mr. Weber, yes.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the November 9, 2022 minutes seconded by
Mr. Weber. All favor. Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Mastronardi,
yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes.
Mr. Tuman made a motion to approve the January 11, 2023 minutes seconded by Mr. Olcott;
all in favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes,
Chairperson Wagner abstained.
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the February 8, 2023 minutes, seconded by Mr.,
Turman. All in Favor. Roll call: Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Mastronardi,
yes, Mr. Tuman, abstained, Mr. Olcott, abstained.

4.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was duly adjourned 8:21p.m.

Respectfully Submitted By,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

3

