VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 2023

PRESENT: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
Jim Tuman
Rocco Mastronardi
Daron Weber
Doug Olcott
ALSO PRESENT: Ronald Wegner, PE, Assistant Village Engineer

1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting to order at 8:01 pm.

2.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Thompson, Joseph, Architect on behalf of Denise Weale, Homeowner–103 Hastings Ave–Located
in a RA-5 Residential District and Designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 79.13 Block 1 Lot 31. Request for a variance from Village Code Section 23033A for a proposed covered porch.
PRESENT: Joseph Thompson, Architect
Chairperson Wagner opened the meeting by welcoming Mr. Thompson and stating that he was the
Board’s sole applicant for the evening. Chairperson Wagner shared that the request on the
application was for a front yard variance of 4’ft and asked that the applicant walk the Board through
the application.
Mr. Thompson introduced himself to the Board stating that he was representing his client, Denise
Weale of 103 Hastings Ave to request for a front yard variance. Mr. Thompson shared that the
Weale’s have owned their property for over 20 years and previously did a 2nd story addition on the
home. Mr. Thompson stated that his clients currently have a small portico but would like to replace it
with something more substantial and add a front porch therefore needing a front yard variance. Mr.
Thompson described the proposed front porch as being an aesthetically pleasing architectural element
that would have a positive impact on the house as on the neighborhood. Mr. Thompson further stated
his belief that the porch would be a positive community element that would encourage spontaneous
interactions between neighbors. Mr. Thompson noted that 103 Hastings is in a “solid, active
community” of the Village and a porch would be characteristic of the neighborhood further citing the
porch addition located at 18 Penfield Ave (pictures provided to the Board).
Mr. Thompson stated that they are asking for the expansion of the Zoning code that would allow for
the projection of the porch into the front yard but noted they are asking for the full width allowance
not depth as the existing portico already protrudes 8’ft as allowed. Mr. Thompson added that the
proposed porch would be much more aesthetically pleasing and useful than the existing portico.
Mr. Thompson stated that as-of-right would permit a much smaller porch noting it would allow the

porch to protrude 8’ft into the front yard however not the full width and that is why they asking for
11’9” inch allowance (only for the full width not depth). Mr. Thompson described the porch as
having multiple columns for hanging plants and room to use the front porch for activities and a
generous seating area.
The Board clarified that the existing portico that is already there is into the 4ft (front yard depth) and
that the proposed porch will not exceed past that point but rather the variance is to allow for the
extended width of the porch. Mr. Thompson confirmed this understanding was correct and added that
the property owners are looking to expand the porch to create more covered, usable space.
Chairperson Wagner asked the Board if they had any additional questions for the applicant. They did
not therefore Chairperson Wagner opened the hearing to the public. There being no comment from
the public, the hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board reviewed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The porch addition fits appropriately in the neighborhood as there are many similar type
porches in the neighborhood. The Board additionally noted several letters of support from
neighbors.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that if the proposed porch was shortened in width it would
not line up symmetrically with the house, it wouldn’t actually have width to make it a usable
space and the existing windows would be oddly placed and therefore overall be aesthetically
unpleasing.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a front yard setback variance of 4’ ft for a covered
porch, Seconded by Chairperson Wagner. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. All in Favor.
Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr.
Olcott, yes.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the amended meeting minutes of April 12, 2023
seconded by Mr. Tuman. The motion carried by a vote of 5-0. All in favor.

4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:11 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted By,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

