VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF WATER CONTROL COMMISSION
Thursday, March 30, 2023

PRESENT:
Mr. Mark Goldfarb
Mr. Leo Wiegman
Mr. William Pfrang
ABSENT: Mr. Stuart Greenbaum, Chairman
Mr. Richard Wetherbee
ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Mr. Wiegman opened the meeting at 4:00 p.m. and welcomed everyone present. Mr. Wiegman stated that
he would be acting as the Chairman in Mr. Greenbaum’s absence.

2.

REFERRAL
a) Sol Systems -- Veterans Plaza (Sec. 79.17 Block 2 Lots 10 & p/o 5) --Referral from
Planning Board to Water Control Commission for a recommendation of a wetland
permit for the addition of the Stormwater Management for solar canopies and battery
entry storage system at the Croton Harmon Train Station Parking Lot.

PRESENT: Steve Meersma, Principal Engineer, TRC Engineering, (Environmental Consultants)
Mr. Meersma introduced himself to the Board as the applicant stating that he is a professional engineer
with TRC Engineering. Mr. Meersma shared that he would be presenting the amendments to Sol
Systems’ previous wetland permit application to now include a stormwater management plan.
Mr. O’Connor, Village Engineer provided some background to the application, stating that over a year
ago TRC Engineering/Sol Systems had been before the Planning Board for Site Plan Approval and a
Wetland Permit. Mr. O’Connor added that the Planning Board referred the application to the Water
Control Commission who then provided a memo dated September 23, 2021 to the Planning Board with
their recommendations. Mr. O’Connor stated that at the time, the stormwater system had not been
designed but the design has now been completed and TRC has amended the application to include the
plan in the wetland permit application. Mr. O’Connor then asked the applicant to review the stormwater
plan as well as any additional changes to the application.
Mr. Meersma shared that in the intervening time since the project began, the plan had gone through a
more detailed design process. Mr. Meersma explained that there were changes made to the plan and the
most substantial one was the addition of a Stormwater Management System. Mr. Meersma added that
other changes made to the design were to the canopies, specifically regarding the steel super structure that
support the pb panels. The applicant shared that changes were also made to the configuration of the
equipment plan to the battery energy system and that they would be using a different manufacturer for the
battery storage yard which is located at the very north end of the parking area and is outside the flood

plain area. Mr. Meersma further explained that all the work to be performed is up land and none of the
construction is proposed to be within the wetland area however, a portion of the work at the southern end
of the site is within the 120-foot wetland buffer (which is otherwise known as the paved parking lot). Mr.
O’Connor asked if there was a lot of wetland vegetation that would get disturbed. Mr. Meersma
responded that there would be no disruption to wetland vegetation.
The Board stated that they were familiar with the site and that the solar canopies themselves are using a
long stand to stand more than two rows of parking at once therefore the stormwater management plan is
meant to handle any runoff from the canopies. Mr. Meersma was in agreement and explained that the
stormwater management system ties into gutters that are on the lower edge of the slanted canopy that
leads to a number of downspouts (approximately 40 downspouts) and in turn the downspouts tie into new
HDPE plastic pipe with corrugated exterior and a smooth wall interior. Mr. Meersma added that typically
the downspouts are 6” or 4” in diameter and then downstream the diameter of the pipe increases. Mr.
Meersma then explained that at the southern end of the project (south of cell tower) there are several
smaller canopies that will be piped to the north and others will be piped to an existing pipe system that is
already installed in the parking lot.
Mr. Meersma stated that the system is designed primarily for a low flow storm event and expressed an
awareness of the Village’s concerns with the winter months when there would be freezing and melt of
stormwater. Mr. Meersma explained that this system would allow for a fair amount of quick melt of
snow in which the gutters would collect the water and feed out in the system. He further explained that
the actual canopy panels will be gasketed so it will eliminate water seeping through the gaps in the panels
and allow the water to flow into the gutters.
There was then further discussion about downspouts, materials, and project timelines.
Mr. Wiegman shared that he felt it was wise to tie into existing storm drains. Mr. Meersma noted that the
site is impervious pavement and that the canopies will not change that situation; the same amount of
runoff will still be generated. Mr. Meersma added that the site grades will also be maintained (no changes
there either). Mr. Meersma added that the site is an existing impervious site so the same amount of runoff
will be generated, therefore there should not be an increase in water being captured. The maintenance of
the site grade was also discussed.
The Board then asked the applicant about the projected duration of the project. Mr. Meersma responded
that he was not privy to that information. The WCC noted it is a very active train station with a lot of
work to be performed. Mr. Meersma did share that the site work will start at the southern end of the train
station and that they will work their way north on the site and that the work will be staged. Mr. O’Connor
noted that an added benefit is that commuter numbers are down since the pandemic.
The Board reviewed that the plan for the southern lot and observed that the system will be piped to the
north by gravity flow. Mr. O’Connor shared that the system will be tying into an existing pipe through a
proposed new manhole so it will not be going into the wetland proper. It was also noted that the other
stormwater system has 2 existing outfalls that are being used and there was an old outfall that was
removed and replaced.
The Board discussed and agreed that the stormwater plan is sensible and well designed especially with
gaskets which are sensible.
The WCC then reviewed and read the Recommendation memo (attached) made to the Planning Board on
September 23, 2021 regarding the Wetlands Permit for Solar Canopies and Battery Energy Storage
System at the train station parking lot.

Mr. Meersma shared in response to conversation about flood plains, that the FEMA Flood Plain Maps
typically show a 100-year flood plain elevation and the proposed stormwater management plan is
designed to protect against 100 years.
Acting Chairman asked the Board the if they had any additional questions regarding the application.
With no further questions, Mr. Wiegman stated that the WCC would make the recommendation to the
Planning Board for the amended wetland permit which now includes the stormwater management system
for the solar canopies at the Croton-Harmon Train Station.
Mr. Goldfarb made a motion to approve the recommendation, Seconded by Mr. Pfrang. The motion was
carried by a vote of 3-0 (Chairman Greenbaum, absent, Mr. Wetherbee, absent/abstained) Roll Call: Mr.
Wiegman, yes, Mr. Goldfarb, yes, Mr. Pfrang, yes.
Mr. O’Connor stated the recommendation would be on the upcoming Planning Board agenda and they
will hold the required public meeting on Tuesday and there will be a prepared resolution for approval.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Water Control Commission approved the minutes of the WCC meeting of February 15, 2023 as
amended by a vote of 3-0 (Mr. Greenbaum, absent, Mr. Wetherbee, absent).
4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the Water Control Commission, the meeting was
adjourned at 4:56 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Water Control Commission

