MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, June 25, 2023 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (CSC Coordinator)

Absent:
Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman

Ashley Clemente
Niall Kelleher (Community Gardens)
Brian Pugh (Mayor of Croton)
Jon Katz PE
Joel Gingold (CCoHOPE Indivisible)
Bernie Yozwiak (Care for Creation Ministry)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): none
Announcements: none
Updates/holdovers/follow-ups/statuses:
- Food Scrap Recycling
With yesterday’s final monitored
drop-off day, we have successfully
completed the 6-month pilot
program. See Dan’s production
chart at right.
A more robust effort will continue
using funds budgeted by the
Village. On 6/3, a dozen waitlisters
(out of ~40) signed up and got
starter kits. The program is now
open to anyone via a web posting at https://www.crotononhudsonny.gov/sustainability-committee/news/croton%E2%80%99s-food-scrap-recyclingprogram To not overwhelm the system, only 30 new households will be accepted (for
a total of ~80). Keiko Niccolini keikoniccolini@gmail.com now runs the program.
Niall is quantifying $ savings from composting based on reduced trash weight at
Charles Pt. incinerator. Data provided by DPW to him showed 3,444 tons of waste in
2022. He’ll get the $/ton charge and work up a proposal for how home composting
could reduce the overall cost of Croton’s municipal solid waste disposal.
- NYSERDA CEC-sponsored projects

1

Firehouse HP controls: C&W got the touch screen thermostats and completed the
installation on June 8. Thank you to Jon for all his hard work on this project and
for his excellent commissioning report. His report was sent to committee members.
On 6/15. Lindsay posted and photographed the required project poster in the
firehouse (needed to get the grant $). Later that day, he filed for the project’s 700
points in the Clean Energy Community (CEC) program.
Firehouse HPWH: Bryan Healy verified that the project will not require competitive
bidding. On 6/15, the Village’s plumbing contractor (McStay Plumbing) visited the site.
Based on the SOW developed by Dan and Bernie, it offered a $7,200 proposal, which
is ~40% higher than expected, Jon and Dan will look for ways to trim it down.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Work proceeds on the train station canopies toward completion by the end of calendar
2023. Village payment for the gasketing and guttering is in process. Community solar
customer acquisition efforts will soon start (see below for details).
An issue that previously blocked a possible ~80 kW solar canopy over the ~8,000 SF
DPW parking lot (east of the building) appears to have been resolved. Shortly after the
DPW solar rooftop was done in 2020, Ecogy told us that further solar development
was blocked by a kW limit on Con Ed’s nearby distribution line. However, a recent
review of a map showing available capacity now shows 1-1.99 MW available. Another
issue could have been the building’s septic system, but DPW (on 6/20) stated that it’s
instead on the south and west sides of the building. Bottom line: if we could secure
funding for a ~80 kW solar canopy (roughly $.25M), the site may yet be viable.
- EV/EVSE
On the $150K train station EV charger grant awarded in early May, we continue to
wait for DEC’s contractual paperwork. DEC says it may arrive “mid-to late July”. Brian
indicated other State funding to Croton may become available. He will look into it.
Bernie showed us pics of chargers and switchgear he saw in Provincetown, MA (near
Cape Cod) during recent travels. They were similar to those we plan to install at the
train station.
Len provided this report on new municipal EVs:
New Police Vehicles - $160,000 (New Debt)
The Police Department is seeking funding to purchase two new electric vehicles to
replace existing gas-powered administrative vehicles. These will be used by the Chief
of Police and the Detective Sergeant. This funding will also include the purchase of an
additional vehicle charging station for the Municipal Building.
New EV for Assistant Engineer - $45,000 (New Debt):

2

The Village vehicle currently used by the Assistant Village Engineer for inspections is
almost 10 years old and showing signs of aging. We plan to replace this gas-operated
vehicle with an electric vehicle like that currently used by the Village’s Code
Enforcement Officer, which will reduce vehicle maintenance costs over the years.
Once the VIN numbers are in hand for any new muni EV, we can get $5K for each
vehicle from a DEC grant program.
- Funding Sources/Issues
On 6/14, Len forwarded the long-awaited IRA regs that would allow Croton to claim up
to a 30% investment credit on our energy installations. Now called called “Elective
Pay” (as well as “Direct Pay”), it involves new paperwork for the Village Treasurer. The
regs are proposed, with a 60-day comment period from 8/14 to 10/14, Final rules won’t
be out until late November. Solar projects < 1 MW would not require apprentices or
prevailing wage. For the firehouse rooftop, that could allow get us a ~$20K ITC refund.
On 6/13, NYSERDA announced new CEC program changes. Both demand response
and Stretch Code were deleted. New grants are now available for two higher
Achievement Levels in campaigns for community solar, HP installations, and EV
purchases. Municipal-owned HPs or EVs, or muni electric accounts, won’t count.
Three achievement levels were set. We already did Level 1 for all three campaigns.
For Levels 2 and 3, all actions must occur after 6/1/23 and be done solely by residents
and businesses with Croton addresses. We presently have 7,800 CEC points.
Achvmt. Level for
small communities
Campaign
Type

2

totals both
levels

3

#
actions

grant $

points

# actions

grant $

points

#
actions

grants $

points

Community
Solar

50

10,000

300

100 more

20,000

500

150

30,000

800

EV purchases

15

7,500

300

50 more

15,000

500

65

22,500

800

HP installations

10

10,000

600

15 more

20,000

700

25

30,000

1,300

82,500

2,900

Jacktop totals

$82.5K would pay for 12 more charge ports at the train station, completing that job.
To expedite comm. solar recruiting, we discussed approaching groups of residences
(e.g., condos, apartments). Bryan Healy has a good working relationship with the Half
Moon Bay condo association. Ways to persuade people to enroll in comm. solar were
discussed (e.g., no installation, not a solar scam, show Con Ed bill $ adjustment).

3

But on 6/23, the NY PSC issued a ruling deeming such activity “energy marketing”. It
could require us to pay a $500 annual fee, post a $50,000 bond, and file a pile of
paperwork. NYSERDA was asked for a response. Brian volunteered to look into it.
On 6/20, NYSERDA said that a “much larger” CEC grant program will be announced
by this year’s end, apparently involving IRA funding to the State.
- Residential Heat Pumps
On 5/18, Ashley sent all member a docx version of his draft report for editing and
review, pursuant to creating a web-based advisory to guide homeowners on their heat
pump options. To format Ashley’s compendium into a brief web posting, Lindsay
drafted a short framework version and (6/11) sent it to Bernie to insert links to the web
page content in Ashley’s draft. Bernie agreed to complete it before our July meeting in
time for members’ input and editing.
An extensive discussion of Ashley’s recent engagements with his HP contractor
followed, focusing on estimated costs (less than expected), rebates, designs, etc. for
his and his father’s homes. He asked members for electrical contractor contacts.
To help promote HPWHs, Joel suggested a group discount purchasing deal with a
selected HVAC contractor, as was done for the Solarize campaigns. He suggested
featuring the firehouse HPWH in our promos, and giving tours to interested residents.
Jon reviewed potential impacts of the change in refrigerants for new HVAC equipment
starting 1/1/24. He concluded that it would be speculative at this time to make any
recommendations to Croton residents with regard to their HP purchasing specs.
- Other Reports
Jon’s fine HP controls commissioning report was sent to all members.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
None.
- New Business / Other Issues
None.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, July 23, at 10:30 AM via zoom.

4

