APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, April 25, 2023
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), C. Sarcone (259), J. Streany (275), D. Vlad (318), B. Powers
(474), W. Skiba (267), T. Kaplan (501), G. Tucci (284), A. Decker (612)
EXCUSED: M. Feminella
Department Members: J. Delaney (350), D. Dunn (342), A. Roosa Jr. (256)
Others in Attendance: Trustee L. Simon
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Chief Munson at 19:02.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Trustee Simon reported that the annual Capital and
Operating Budgets were approved on 4/24/23 resulting in no property tax increases to Village
residents. He thanked those whom attended the Solar Power Reveal Ceremony at Washington
Engine this past weekend.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion: W. Skiba / 2nd J. Streany to approve the minutes of the 3/28/2023 Council Meeting –
CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
• Application for PAF Membership with Harmon Engine received from Ashley Kempter.
Motion C. Sarcone /2nd G. Tucci to approve pending favorable background check –
CARRIED.
• Letter from Croton Fire Patrol indicating they have appointed Adam Decker as Alternate
Council Warden.
• School Leave Request received from Ivan Ozaruk from 2/1/23 until 8/1/23. Motion W.
Skiba / 2nd G. Tucci to approve – CARRIED.
• Excuse from M. Feminella for this evening’s meeting. Motion T. Kaplan / 2nd W. Skiba to
accept – CARRIED.
• C. Sarcone reports that John Donnelly has changed his status from Social to Active
member with Chemical Engine as of 3/20/2023. Motion J. Streany / 2nd G. Tucci to approve
– CARRIED.
Reports of the Chiefs
J. Munson (2081)
 Engine 119 has returned from HVFE for several repairs. T10 going out on Thursday 4/27
for fuel tank replacement. TL44 awaiting a part for window motor. All other repairs are
caught up.
 Capital Budget was approved to purchase a new Ladder Truck, do needed repairs to
WECO sidewalk and ramp, purchase a UTV and first part of multi-year cancer reduction
plan.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, April 25, 2023
 Thanked membership for their constant commitment to the department – especially for
answering recent Mutual Aid incidents, training, work details and routine calls.
 Hudson National Golf Course is expected to purchase a UTV for the CFD. If this occurs,
funds in budget for a UTV will hopefully be diverted to buy a pickup truck for towing all
of our equipment.
 Parade schedule is finalized, Inspection will be on Saturday 9/16. Members asked to use
online sign-up forms for all events.
Reports of Committees
Big Bucks – J. Streany reports tickets were distributed, sell them!
LOSAP – T. Dinkler reports that the 2022 information from Penflex is done and was approved
by Village, it has been posted and up for members to review until April 30th. A discussion
followed related to the department’s intent to pursue higher LOSAP benefits which will require
Public Referendum vote in November.
Fund Drive – T. Dinkler reports 2023 Fund Drive is out, Reminder messages will go out soon.
Special Order of Business:
None
Unfinished Business:
W. Skiba reminded J. Munson that A. Gagliotti is awaiting recruitment information to post
around village.
New Business:
T. Kaplan reports that A. Gagliotti purchased new frame for Ex-Chief photo display in Municipal
Building.
D. Vlad asked if FD has plans or has spoken to village related to concerns of e-Bike store on
South Riverside, Chief Munson reports that it was addressed when the business opened last
year. A discussion followed related to the safety of e-Bikes that EMS will be getting and their
storage at Harmon Firehouse.
Treasurer’s Report: Balance of $34,141.29 per Treasurer Phil Dinkler via email.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad /2nd B. Powers – CARRIED. M eeting Adjourned at 19:24.

Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 4/ 28/ 23.

