VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
WEDNESDAY, June 14, 2023

PRESENT: Christine Wagner, Chairperson
Doug Olcott
James Tuman
Daron Weber
Rocco Mastronardi

ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, Assistant Engineer P.E.
Len Simon, Village Board Liaison
Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting to order on June 14, 2023 at
8:01p.m.

2. NEW BUSINESS:
Justin Casson, Owner-60 Radnor Ave—Located in a RA-5 Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 2
Lot 30. Request for a variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40A and 230-40B for
an existing accessory structure (shed) located in the front yard nearer to the street than the
primary structure.
a)

PRESENT: Justin Casson, Owner
Mr. Casson introduced himself to the Board. Mr. Casson stated that he is selling his house
and that he owned the property since 1990. The applicant shared with the Board that at that
time he built a shed on the property (in its current location) under the assumption it did not
need a permit because it was not fixed to the ground (with a foundation). Mr. Casson was
also unaware that the shed location required a variance. Mr. Casson stated that he was
mistaken and was present at the meeting to correct the error and request a front yard variance
of 6’ft. Mr. Casson added that he needed a variance because the shed protrudes past the
primary structure. The Board pointed out that the projection of the shed out past the primary
structure was hardly noticeable. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer shared that he had
been out to the property and that they measured the shed; it was 9’ft from the property line
and about 11’ft from the sidewalk. Mr. Wegner provided the Board with additional images
from Google Maps to show where the shed is in relation to the property line.

The Board asked the applicant what the shed was being used for. Mr. Casson replied that its
current use is for tools but in the past, they used it as a playhouse for his children when they
were young. It was noted by the Board that 6 letters of neighbor support were submitted
along with the application and that no objections had been received or heard on the existing
shed. The Board acknowledged that the shed was originally built without a permit under a
misunderstanding and clarified that the shed now required a variance as well as a building
permit and certificate of occupancy to be obtained by the applicant.
Chairperson Wagner opened the public hearing, and hearing no comments on the application,
the public hearing was closed.
The Zoning Board of Appeals then reviewed discussed and reviewed the five factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board discussed and agreed the shed had existed in its location for a long time with no
objections and that letters in support of the shed were very helpful. One Board member added
that they frequently pass by the property and it does not appear closer to the street than the
structure. The Board agreed that the accessory structure had been there for a long time and is
not noticeable.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that the topography (sloped downward) does not allow for the shed
to be moved to an alternate location additionally there would be a hardship to move it even if there
was another location for it.

3. The requested variance is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Mastronardi made a motion to grant a front yard setback variance of 6’ft for an
accessory structure (shed) to be placed in a front yard setback nearer to the street than the principal
building. Seconded by Mr. Olcott. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. All in Favor. Roll Call:
Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the May 10, 2023 minutes, seconded by Mr. Tuman,
and carried by a vote of 5-0. Roll Call: Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman,
yes, Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr. Weber, yes.

4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:10
p.m.

Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie DeMattia
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

