WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, April 25, 2023 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

APPROVED

PRESENT  Ann Galelli, Chairperson
         Steve Krisky
         Len Simon
         Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O'Connor, P.E. Village Engineer

ABSENT: Stuart Greenbaum

1) CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of April 25, 2023 to order at 4:32 pm.

2) REFERRALS

   a) Referral from Planning Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
      Consistency review for Porteus & Son Builders, LLC - 25 Harrison St. (68.17-2-26.02)
      Preliminary Subdivision Application

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Planning Board requesting a recommendation of consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes.

WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo attached.

MOTION: Len Simon made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, by a vote of 4-0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Leo Wiegman made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of April 4th, 2023, seconded by Len Simon, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:47p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

***Minutes approved on July 18, 2023 by a vote of 3-0 with Stuart Greenbaum abstaining and Leo Wiegman being absent***

Tel: 914-271-4783       www.crotononhudson-ny.gov       Fax: 914-271-3790

---

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman
ANN GALLELLI
Members
STUART GREENBAUM
STEVE KRISKY
LEN SIMON
LEO WEIGMAN
Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO:     Chairman Rob Luntz and the Village Planning Board

FROM:   Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:     Referral from Planning Board for LWRP Consistency Review regarding Preliminary
        Subdivision Application for Porteus & Son Builders, LLC - 25 Harrison Street

DATE:   April 26, 2023

On April 25th, 2022, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) a referral from the Planning Board on an application from Porteus & Son Builders, LLC for Preliminary Subdivision Approval for the property located at 25 Harrison Street. Based on the Committee's review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was 4-0 all in favor, with Stuart Greenbaum being absent.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies were relevant:

POLICY 5: Encourage the location of development in areass where public services and facilities essential to such development are adequate, except when such development has special functional requirements or other characteristics which necessitate its location in other coastal areas.

The property is located in an area with existing water, sewer and gas services.

POLICY 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas where distribution lines currently exist.

The property is located in the existing water and sewer service areas with the water and sewer mains located in the street directly in front of the property.

POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.

POLICY 33A: Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as to not increase flows within the existing system or to improve existing stormwater runoff systems so that runoff from such developments does not adversely impact coastal waters.

POLICY 37B Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be exerted in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new construction.

Best Management Practices will be utilized to reduce any impacts from storm warter to the site and off site areas.

These policies are consistent with and applicable to the proposed project.

The WAC believes that the proposed development will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards. Because there are no expected adverse impacts on coastal resources, there is no reason to consider alternative actions or mitigation measures.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783       www.crotononhudson-ny.gov       Fax: 914-271-3790
