MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, July 23, 2023 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair and CSC Coordinator)
Dan Columbini PE

Absent:

David Goldman
Ashley Clemente
Niall Kelleher (Community Gardens)
Brian Pugh (Mayor of Croton)
Jon Katz PE
Joel Gingold (CCoHOPE Indivisible)
Bernie Yozwiak (Care for Creation Ministry)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): State Sen. Pete Harckham and Assbly. Dana Levenberg
Announcements: none
- Sen. Harckham congratulated the committee on making Croton the point leader in the
CEC program. He indicated that each member would receive a Certificate of
Achievement from his office. No representative from Levenberg’s office appeared.
- Food scrap recycling program
On 7/13, two eblasts (to the Village’s and the Mothers Out Front lists) elicited 40+
requests to join the program, potentially doubling its participation to ~80. Starting on
7/15, Keiko Niccolini ran several training sessions for ~20 new participants. Anyone
interested in joining should review the program and registration process posted at
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/sustainabilitycommittee/news/croton%E2%80%99s-food-scrap-recycling-program
- NYSERDA CEC-sponsored projects
By completing the firehouse HP controls (and adding 4 EV chargers at the DPW
building), Croton (on 7/4) became the leader in NY’s Clean Energy Community (CEC)
program. With 8,000 points, Croton is now first among the 503 CECs. Bedford is 2nd
(7,500 pts.) and Hastings is 3rd (7,100 pts.). While not immediately yielding new
grants, this helps position Croton for when they become available.
On 7/5, At Brian’s request, a draft press release was sent to Bryan Healy. It’s now
posted at https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/home/news/news-croton-hudsonbecomes-state%E2%80%99s-leading-clean-energy-community The front page of the
Village’s summer newsletter had an article on Croton getting 1st place in CEC.
On 7/16, an article in the online version or the River Journal appeared at
https://riverjournalonline.com/around-town/for-the-local-good/croton-on-hudsonbecomes-states-leading-clean-energy-community/76767/
1

Joel and Bernie will forward other articles they saw in (respectively) the Croton
Gazette and the Yorktown Examiner.
On 7/17, News12 (cable TV) interviewed Lindsay and Brian at the firehouse. View it at
https://hudsonvalley.news12.com/croton-on-hudson-leads-the-way-in-ny-as-a-cleanenergy-community
On 7/18, Ecogy Energy sent Lindsay a congratulatory note and a bouquet of flowers.
Firehouse HPWH: Jon and Dan reviewed the $7,200 plumber’s proposal for an 80-gal
unit and whittled it down to $7,000. On 7/18, Dan Tucker (Village Treasurer) issued a
PO that was forwarded to the plumber. The project’s cost is covered by our existing
grants. We look forward to completing the installation by Labor Day.
New CEC Community Campaigns (community solar, EVs, HPs): Lindsay verified with
NYSERDA that we don’t need its approval or new docs to get started. Our first
campaign will likely be recruiting subscribers to output from the train station canopy
system. As earlier discussed, enrolling 150 Crotonites would win us a $30K grant and
800 CEC points. On 7/8, Cheryl Wong (a new recruit) agreed to assist with that effort.
Anyone in the 10520 zip code is eligible except: those having solar panels on their
homes, or already enrolled in a community solar (e.g., DPW) project. Consideration is
being given to recruiting at the ~300 Half Moon Bay condos.
On 7/18, Joel met with Patty Buchanan of C100 on its possible assistance with
recruiting. He got a generally positive response. Further discussions are in the works.
On 7/6, SolSystems agreed to get us a date for when its subscriber enrollment web
page will be posted, Issues on securing subscriber info are being ironed out. A PSC
ruling that could have complicated such marketing now appears to allow it, as long as
no “commodity services” (e.g., actual power sales) are involved:
“CDG [community distributed generation] sponsors would not fit within the definition of “energy
consultant” as CDG sponsors provide bill credits [not actual power] to customers and do not
provide commodity service.”

Thanks to Leo Wiegman at Sustainable Westchester for ferreting out that exception.
On 7/19, NYSEIA came to the same conclusion, citing the same language.
Other campaigns will promote HPWHs (25 of them gets us $30K and 1,300 points)
and identify purchases of new EVs (65 of them gets us $22.5K and 800 points).
- Solar Projects/Issues
At our train station, late June saw delivery of POWIN power storage modules (lithiumiron-phosphate [LFP], not lithium-ion). They look like long white ventilated shipping
containers. Other work is proceeding rather slowly. On 7/20, Sol said a revised
construction timetable is forthcoming.
Development of a solar canopy project over the Ossining train station parking lot
appears stalled. An Ossining Village official expressed concerns over several issues.
2

- EV/EVSE
The DEC contractual paperwork for our $150K train station EV charger grant has still
not arrived. The grant was awarded to us in late April.
Len updated on the status of funding for 3 new municipal EVs to replace existing gaspowered vehicles and another EV charger for them. Purchasing may take ~9 months.
Len will review with DPW on status for buying an F-150 Lightning EV pickup truck.
When we get their VIN numbers, we can apply for a $5K rebate for each from DEC.
A NYSERDA program (Charge Ready 2.0) for EV chargers (focused on multi-family
and commercial properties) has re-opened. Talks have started with Regan
Development at its Maple St. Apts. site regarding L2 chargers in its parking lot.
- Funding Sources/Issues
Len reported on a recent $400M addition to the State’s Environmental Protection
Fund. While many worthwhile projects will be funded, there was no new funding for
our types of projects. He reviewed the two parts to the federal Greenhouse Gas
Reduction Fund: an Accelerator loan fund focused on low-income/disadvantage
communities, and the National Climate Investment Fund (NCIF), most of which would
be available for other communities. Neither will be ready-for-prime-time until ~2025.
Brian detailed the CREST program: Community Resiliency, Economic Sustainability,
and Technology. $2.1M in grants (between $50K and $100K) will be distributed in
State Sen. Harckham’s district to municipalities “pursuing municipal electrification and
renewable energy projects”. Harckham stated that Croton will get a $100K grant. Brian
had asked about a solar canopy over the DPW’s parking lot. At ~80 kW, it could
produce 2X the annual kWh used by the DPW building. The rest (~40,000 kWh) might
be remotely net metered to other Village accounts. Lindsay will ask Jon to update us
on the rules and lingo for that process.
Installation would cost $250K - $300K. On 7/17, the NY-SUN incentive for the Con Ed
area for non-residential systems up to 200 kW was announced at $1.00/W, with a
$.20/W adder if it’s a parking canopy. For a DPW canopy, that would yield ~$96K. Add
the $100K CREST grant, and then a 30% ITC refund, we would have ~$271K,
potentially covering the entire cost without needing Village funds.
CREST grant applications will be handled by DASNY (Dormitory Authority of the State
of NY). FAQs say that app reviews take 6-12 months, during which no $ can be spent.
Brian noted that NYC DEP (which has authority because DPW sits atop a City water
resource and our aquifer) may quibble over drilling for a canopy’s pier supports.
Lindsay is pursuing details on that issue.
- Residential Heat Pumps
On 7/3, Bernie and Lindsay zoomed on the draft HP advisory report initiated by
Ashley. Bernie is concentrating on sorting out the various financial incentives into an
3

easily understood format. Rules for one of them (HEERHA) won’t be announced until
near the end of this year. Members discussed the intricacies when integrating HPs
with existing heating systems, and the implications for related incentives. Dan agreed
to send us pics of the HPWH he recently installed in his basement.
- Other Reports
Niall is quantifying $ savings from composting based on reducing our trash weight at
the Charles Pt. incinerator. Data provided by DPW to him showed 3,444 tons of our
waste was incinerated in 2022. Lindsay will help Niall get our present $/ton disposal
charge to work up a proposal for how home composting could reduce the overall cost.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
Contact was re-established with the Purchase College Sustainability Coalition. It
involved the College, a variety of green-oriented businesses, as well as local NGOs
and governments. In Dec. 2021, Joel recalled attending a zoom hosted by Angie Kim,
sustainability coordinator for SUNY Purchase College and founder of the Coalition.
Kim quit a month later. The Coalition then went dormant until June 2022 when she
was replaced by Grace Afflerbach. On 6/30, Grace told Lindsay that the Coalition was
alive but not active. Its next meeting will be after Labor Day, at which time we’ll reassess our involvement. Joel agreed to attend the meeting.
- New Business / Other Issues
Bernie noted that EV chargers should be in commercial areas in town, e.g., near or in
the Vassallo Park parking area. While a DC fast charger (i.e., L3) would be
appropriate, issues were raised re: electric load and cost. Lindsay mentioned that the
Con Ed PowerReady program could pay to expand distribution capacity, but L3
charger cost is still an uphill climb.

Our committee will take its usual summer sabbatical during August. Date for our next
meeting was set for Sunday, Sept. 24, at 10:30 AM via zoom.

4

