Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held
on Monday, July 24, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in
the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, claims numbered 23240767 through 23241048. The motion
was seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$156,356.80
$12,870.52
$2,771.40
$258,438.44
$746.85
$126,465.36

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL Arlene Salkow, 68 Brook Street, Croton on Hudson, asked what the
Village’s response to the water flow on Brook Street was?
Village Manager Healy advised that Brook Street is one of the items
that is being addressed in the Village’s Mitigation Efforts.
4. PRESENTATION:
Manager Healy.

Village’s Mitigation Efforts presented by Village

https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fp
lay.champds.com%2FATT%2Fcrotononhudsonny%2F202307%2F8c08fd4ee2c8bbd7bca4c062b3e11203176d14b5.pptx&wdOrigin
=BROWSELINK

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 2

5. LWRP Consistency Review for the New York Power Authority (NYPA)
and Clean Path New York LLC (CPNY) Sediment Survey Program
Village Manager Healy explained that the Clean Path New York Project
Sediment Survey is not taking place in the portion of the river that is in
Croton, but they have asked the Village for our opinion with respect to
the Sediment Survey and our Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC)
has reviewed it and has come up with a number of policies that were
relevant.
WAC MEMO
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202307/fff63278b7915221357d25777e06628be28f91db.pdf
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore,
revitalize,
and
redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses
Existing planning and zoning documents
should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within
the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned
land at the Metro North Train Station,
including Village garage and bay area.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro North Train
Station, while facilitating public access to
bay area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the
municipality to encourage the mutual
cooperation and exchange of information
between governmental agencies involved
in clean-up of the Croton landfill and
Metro-North lagoon in order to develop
commercial use of resources found in the
coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant
site at the intersection of Route 9A and
Municipal Place.

1A

1B

1C

1D

1E

WAC RESPONSE

Applicable
Yes/No
No

No

No

No

No

No

Consistent
Yes/No

BOARD’S REPONSE

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 3

2
2A

3

4

5

5A

5B

5C

6
6A

Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power
boats on the Hudson River and Croton
River and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters
that regulate boat traffic such a speed,
turbidity, safety, and mooring and sludge
disposal. Such controls will further
increase the compatibility of power boat
use with other forms of recreation use
within the coastal zone area.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of major ports is not
applicable to
Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the
strengthening of small harbors is not
applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate, except when such development
has special functional requirements or
other characteristics which necessitate its
location in other coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
The extension of water and sewer
distribution lines beyond areas currently
served should be undertaken cautiously
and with prudent regard for Village water
resources and the preservation of
environmental values in undeveloped
areas.
Limit proposed development within those
portions of the coastal zone boundary
area, where traffic impacts such as site
distance and carrying capacity of the
roadways are restricted, particularly along
Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route
129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 4

7

7A

7B

7C

7D

7E

7F

7G

applicants
proposing
development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall be protected and improved for
conservation,
economic,
aesthetic,
recreational, and other public uses and
values. Its resources shall be protected
from the threat of pollution, misuse, and
mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed
to drain in, or on land within, the area of
influence in the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be permitted within the
area of influence of the habitat unless best
available technology is used to prevent
adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitats and shore lands shall be included
in any programs for cleanup of any
adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively channeled so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity shall be timed so that spawning of
anadromous fish species and shellfish will
not be adversely affected.
Such
activities
must
not
cause

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

Yes

Yes

Board Concurred

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 5

8

9

9A

9B

10

11

degradation of water quality or impact
identified significant fish and wildlife
habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub lethal or lethal
effect on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts
shall be made in a manner which ensures
the protection of renewable fish and
wildlife resources and considers other
activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Villageowned land adjacent to the Metro-North
parking lot, at Croton Point Park and at
Senasqua Park, along the Croton River,
and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts
should be made to encourage recreational
use of the fish and wildlife resources found
in these areas by increasing the
opportunities for public access and
enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment
of the wildlife in the designated significant
fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon
Society Sanctuaries, on other public or
private lands within the Village, where
wildlife habitats are located. Encourage
the recreational use of areas where such
resources are found, as well as the
protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new or improvement of
existing on shore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
state's seafood products, maintaining
adequate
stocks,
and
expanding
aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall
be made in a manner which ensures the
protection of renewable fish and wildlife
resources and considers other activities
dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Board Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 6

11A

12

12A

13

13A

14

15

16

of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures
shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent damage
to the environment, and promote the
public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any development or
other activity which disturbs or breaks the
topsoil or results in earth movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs.
Primary dunes will be protected from all
encroachments that could impair their
natural protective capacity
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier to
Croton Bay from activities or development
that would increase erosion of or flooding
of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at
least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or
assured maintenance or replacement
programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be
maintained in good condition and private
landowners should be required to restore
and maintain erosion control mechanisms
along their river frontage which are
designed for long term stability.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at
other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which
supply beach materials to land adjacent to
such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase
in erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 7

16A

17

17A

18

19

19A

protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
able to function, or existing development;
and only where the public benefits
outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for
increasing erosion and adverse effects on
natural protective features
Public funds shall be appropriated for the
yearly maintenance of Senasqua Park
until such time that is determined that
expenditure of funds outweighs the cost of
acquiring, constructing and maintaining a
similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural
measures to minimize damage to natural
resources and property from flooding and
erosion. Such measures shall include: (i)
the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the
installation of sand fencing and draining;
(iii) the reshaping of bluffs; and (iv) the
flood-proofing of buildings or their
elevation above the base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes rising from areas
inland shall be of a non-structural nature,
wherever possible, in consideration of the
visual impact of structural measures. The
retention or planting of vegetative covers
will be preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the state
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to the
safeguards
which
the
state
has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities
so that these resources and facilities may
be fully utilized in accordance with
reasonably anticipated public recreation
needs and the protection of historic and
natural resources. In providing such
access, priority will be given to public
beaches, boating facilities, fishing areas
and waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space
along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in the
form of a trail or walkway system. Such

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Board Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 8

19B

19C

19D

19E

20

21

21A

22

systems should be provided along
undeveloped and underutilized land as
well as along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that
have specific value for their physical and
visual access to the Hudson River or
Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public
transportation, when feasible, to areas
within the coastal zone area where water
dependent and water enhanced recreation
activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and Bay
at the Village-owned land south of the
Village parking lots at the Croton-Harmon
Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access
to the Croton River waterfront, in its
current undeveloped condition as a
pedestrian walkway.
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. Such
lands shall be retained in public
ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast,
provided it is consistent with the
preservation and enhancement of other
coastal resources and takes into account
demand for such facilities. In facilitating
such activities, priority shall be given to
areas where access to the recreation
opportunities of the coast can be provided
by new or existing public transportation
services and to those areas where the use
of the shore is severely restricted by
existing development.
Boating activities should be encouraged
provided that they do not restrict other
recreational
opportunities
and
are
undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the
shore will provide for water-related
recreation, as a multiple use, whenever
such recreational use is appropriate in
light reasonably anticipated demand for
such activities and the primary purpose of
the development

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 9

23

24

25

25A

25B
25C

25D

Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, in areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of
statewide significance as identified on the
coastal area map. Impairment shall
include: (i) the irreversible modification of
geologic forms, the destruction or removal
of vegetation, the destruction, or removal
of structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting or scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an identified
resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified
as
being
of
statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Protect local scenic resources by
preventing:
(i)
the
irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or
wetlands, the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic forms,
vegetation or structures are significant to
the scenic quality of an identified
resources; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an
identified resource.
Secure the designation of the panoramic
views from Croton Point as a scenic area
of statewide significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and
129 within the Croton boundaries as a
scenic road. Ensure developments on or
adjacent to Route 9 do not impair scenic
resources or views of or from the Hudson
and Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified view-sheds
which provide visual access to the Hudson
River, including but not limited to the views
of the Hudson River from the western
shoreline of the Village, and from Prickly

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 10

26

27

28

28A

29

30

30A

30B

31

31A

Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River
Landing. In addition, protect view-sheds
to and of the Croton River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the
protection of agricultural lands is not
applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
damage significant fish and wildlife and
their habitats, increase shoreline erosion
or flooding, or interfere with the production
of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must consider
short and long-term impacts on the Croton
River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of energy resources is not
applicable to Croton.
WATER
AND
AIR
RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited
to,
toxic
and
hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water quality
standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose any
materials in coastal waters until such
materials have been tested by the state for
conformance with water quality standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials shall
be monitored by the state to assure there
will be no discharge or leaching of
materials into coastal waters.
State coastal area policies and purposes
of approved local waterfront revitalization
programs will be considered while
reviewing coastal water classifications and
while modifying water quality standards;
however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be
recognized as being a development
constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC
should continually monitor water quality in
the Hudson River and Croton Bay which

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Board Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 11

32

33

33A

33B

34

34A
35

36

37

37A

have already been overburdened with
pollutants.
Recommendations
for
mitigation and upgrading water quality
classifications cannot be determined
without continual monitoring and testing of
the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used
to ensure the control of storm water runoff
and combined sewer overflows draining
into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain
storm water runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing system
or to improve existing storm water runoff
systems to that runoff from such
developments does not adversely impact
coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water
discharge to control flow of pollutants from
street and parking areas, etc. directly in
the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters
from vessels will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply areas.
There shall be no discharge from moored
structures or marine vessels, due to shape
of cove and lack of tidal flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in
coastal waters will be undertaken in a
manner that meets existing state dredging
permit
requirements,
and
protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic
resources, natural protective features,
important agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at lease minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these
spills occur.
Best Management Practices will be utilized
to minimize the non-point discharge of
excess nutrients, organics and eroded
soils into coastal waters.
Standards and specifications for the

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 12

37B

38

39

39A

39B

40

41
41A
42

control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County's Best
Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops, and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas
will be conducted in such a manner so as
to protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Require transporters, producers and
storers of hazardous material to inform the
public or allow public access to records
involving the transport, storage, treatment
and disposal of hazardous materials. This
is of particular concern with respect to rail
transport of such materials, storage of
identified materials on railroad property
and uses in the waterfront area involved in
the treatment, storage and disposal of
such materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302,
Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to- Know of the 1986 Superfund
Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
planning committee and the Croton Fire
Department shall be notified if hazardous
substances exceed the established
threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to state water quality standards.
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or state air
quality standards to be violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring
station should be established within the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the state reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 13

43

43A

43B

44
44A

significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of the acid rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus service
to the train station, thereby decreasing
dependency on the automobile use and
reduce the generation of acid rain
precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil
fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
development of a monitoring program to
assess rail vehicle engines emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.

No

No

No

No
No

Trustee Simon stated that he believes that all of these
recommendations are very solid from the perspective of what the WAC
was looking at, recognizing that this is really about a Sediment Survey
as opposed to the Clear Path New York Project itself. Trustee Simon
stated that there may be some interest on the part of the WAC in
knowing in a general sense what the County is going to be doing and
how they are going to portray their position with respect to Croton
Point Park as well as comments from other area jurisdictions.
6. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated July 20, 2023,
regarding Con Edison’s Restoration Work.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202307/2fc15e5efd467c2d0a996229d773b8609117b9ef.pdf
b. Letter from the Town of Cortlandt dated July 21, 2023, regarding
an upcoming Public Hearing on amending the Town Code to correct
certain Zoning inconsistencies.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 14

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/2023,
07/11a838475eb8f29060e7d20a07dd6594819f2e5a.pdf
c. Email from Donna O’Malley, member of Northern Westchester’s
“Mothers Out Front,” dated July 11, 2023, regarding the “Save the
Hudson” Bill and requesting that the Village send a letter to the
Governor asking her to sign the Bill that was passed by the
Assembly and Senate.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202307/f3f9395cfd69a39e5129bec040c8ae601b57a7c4.pdf
Village Manager Healy explained that the Board had previously
adopted a resolution, but if the Board would like something sent
again, he would need authorization to do so.
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees authorized the Village Manager to forward a
letter to the Governor supporting the “Save the Hudson” Bill.
Motion was approved with a 4-1 vote (Trustee Nicholson voting
Nay).
Trustee Nicholson stated that there are no easy ways to dispose of
this water and no solution that she has seen other than dumping it
into the river, which is at less of a rate than when the plant was
running. Trustee Nicholson stated that the only other solution
would be to store it and that has a host of other threats. Trustee
Nicholson stated that even if the Governor signs this, she does not
believe she has the jurisdiction to stop it and for those reasons she
voted against it. Trustee Nicholson encouraged everyone to go to
the New York State Website and look at the frequently asked
questions on this subject.
Trustee Horowitz stated that all of the agencies that are concerned
with keeping the Hudson River clean are absolutely behind the
movement not to dump radioactive water into the river. Trustee
Horowitz stated that there has not been enough opportunity to look
at alternatives and the plan is to take some time to look into other

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 15

alternatives. Trustee Horowitz stated that the Hudson River has had
its share of things being dumped into it, it was the first Superfund
Site in the Country, we have seen fish come back, and it is in fairly
good shape, and we do not want to do the wrong thing at this time.
Mayor Pugh stated that Trustee Nicholson is correct that there are
no great options, but he is hopeful that this Legislation will
encourage a more fruitful dialogue and that this dialogue might
produce a better solution.
Trustee Simon stated that Assemblywoman Levenberg and Senator
Harckham have taken the lead on this, understanding that there is
no simple solution, but he believes that if the Governor signs the
Bill, it will help us get closer to a solution and the next logical
steps.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she supports this not because this is the
perfect solution but that perhaps with additional time, we can
actually find a better solution.
d. Letter from Race Director Mike Grayeb dated July 16, 2023,
regarding the 2023 Harry Chapin Memorial Run Against Hunger.
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Horowitz, seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request from the Harry Chapin Memorial Run Against Hunger for
the Village’s support as detailed in their letter dated July 16, 2023.
Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
e. Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini presented a
compilation of energy data from our municipal buildings for 2022 in
accordance with the Village’s Benchmarking Policy that was
adopted in 2018.
Back-Up documents.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202307/00254867fbef49dc5a3f4d5fa57c4810dd312f87.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 16

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202307/51063ab70093b30aafeba3e8e1205561892eff24.pdf
To view the entire presentation, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/877
Trustee Simon asked, now that we have solar on the DPW roof,
does the Village have the option of getting out of using heating oil.
Village Manager Healy stated that he does not believe this is an
immediate possibility, but it is something that we can look at in the
future.
Trustee Horowitz asked if we get any benefit from the energy that
is generated from the solar panels at DPW or is all the energy going
to community solar.
Village Manager Healy stated that we do not get a benefit from the
energy generated by the panels, but the Village does receive a
leasing fee wherein we put fifty percent of that money into an
annual green account where the money has to be used on other
types of energy efficient purchases.
Mayor Pugh stated that it is more advantageous for the Village to
assign it to residential customers because residential customers
pay a higher rate than the Village and it would not produce the
same economic benefit for the Village.
Trustee Horowitz asked if that money is growing.
Village Manager Healy stated that we have used some of the
money to purchase electric leaf blowers for DPW and a good portion
was used for the purchase of a new electric vehicle for the Police
Department.
Trustee Nicholson asked if the Washington Engine Company
building was the last building to have solar installed and are we
considering any other buildings.
Village Manager Healy explained that the Grand Street Fire House
has solar panels on a portion of their roof, the municipal building

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 17

cannot have solar panels because of the antennas, the Harmon Fire
House does not but that is something we can look at once the
renovation project is completed.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, suggested that the
Board try to find out what happened to one of the largest cables that
was laid from the Bayonne Gas Plant to supply the Indian Point Power
Plant, and also suggested that the Board look into what renewable
power such as solar panels do to our land that in his opinion creates
unreliable power.
Christina Alvarez Arnold, Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson,
thanked the Board for their March 6th resolution joining other
municipalities and thousands of citizens in opposition to Holtec’s plan to
dump toxic radioactive water into our Hudson River, a “Save the
Hudson” Bill, authorized by Assemblywoman Levenberg and Senator
Harckham, prohibiting the dumping into the River passed both State
houses last month but has been on Governor Hochul’s desk for her
signature since June 20th, Northern Westchester’s Mothers Out Front is
one of many organizations committed to seeing this issue all the way
through and we would like the Village to call for a one year moratorium
on Holtec’s plan while alternatives are investigated.
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution 167 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the New York Power Authority (NYPA) and Clean Path New York LLC
(CPNY) are proposing to conduct a supplemental sediment survey program to
continue to assess current geotechnical conditions and progress the design of
the Project along the submerged portion of the proposed CPNY Project route
within the Hudson and Harlem Rivers, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 18

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson received correspondence from the
New York State Department Office of Planning, Development and Community
Infrastructure, requesting preliminary review of the consistency of the proposed
action with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP), and
WHEREAS on July 10, 2023, the correspondence was referred to the Village
Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation of consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP), and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency
with the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on July 24, 2023, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action
with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
POLICY 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected,
preserved, and, where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as
habitats.
POLICY 7A: The quality of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat and Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall be
protected and improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and
other public uses and values. Its resources shall be protected from the threat of
pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.
POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat
and the Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be disposed

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 19

of or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy
the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat or Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not be
permitted within the area of influence of the habitat unless best available
technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other
locations. Construction activity shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous
fish species and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
POLICY 7G: Such activities must not cause degradation of water quality or
impact identified significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 8: Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area from the
introduction of hazardous wastes and other pollutants which bio-accumulate in
the food chain, or which cause significant sub lethal or lethal effect on those
resources.
POLICY 18: To safeguard the vital economic, social and environmental interests
of the state and of its citizens, proposed major actions in the coastal area must
give full consideration to those interests, and to the safeguards which the state
has established to protect valuable coastal resource areas.
POLICY 30B: Storage and disposal of all materials shall be monitored by the
state to assure there will be no discharge or leaching of materials into coastal
waters.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed
above were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the New York
Power Authority (NYPA) and Clean Path New York LLC (CPNY) Sediment Survey

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 20

Program, complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the
Village’s LWRP.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Gallelli stated that this pertains to the Sediment Survey and not to the
entire Clean Path New York Program and the Board found the Sediment Survey
to be consistent with the objectives and policies of our Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program.
Trustee Horowitz stated that it is interesting that this conversation comes on the
heels of our Holtec conversation, if you look at all the policies that were
addressed during our LWRP review, they are all relevant policies coming under
the heading of the protection of fish and wildlife habitat, erosion, flooding and
the introduction of toxic elements into the coastal area. Trustee Horowitz also
stated that she was under the impression that the Board had already written a
letter asking for a Moratorium to stop Holtec from dumping toxic water into the
river.
Village Manager Healy stated that the resolution that the Board passed was for
him to draft a letter in conformance with the request made by “Mothers Out
Front.”
Trustee Simon stated that the sample letter we received is probably a good base
and we can enhance it with any language from our resolution or our legislative
program.
Resolution 168 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on April 8, 2022, the Village Board approved a termination agreement
with the owner of 72 Thompson Avenue to remove a Condition to allow the
property to be combined with a portion of the adjacent property, 74 Thompson
Avenue, in order to create an additional building lot, and
WHEREAS the agreement included a condition for the Village and the owner to
record an easement agreement to specifically locate each of the sanitary sewer,

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 21

storm drain and water main easements at the owner’s sole cost and expense,
and
WHEREAS, 74 Thompson Ave., LLC desires to construct a house on the property
located at 74 Thompson Avenue and has requested to relocate the existing
sanitary sewer and to modify the Existing Easement to reflect the new location
and allow for the construction of the house,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute a modification of the existing easement for the
sanitary sewer, storm drain, and water main running through the property at 74
Thompson Avenue and access to same for repairs and maintenance in a form as
approved by the Village Attorney, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such easement agreement shall be filed with the
Westchester County Department of Land Records.
Resolution 169 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson owns and operates a municipal
water supply, treatment, and distribution system serving residents and
businesses within the Village, within Westchester County, New York, and
WHEREAS the Village has determined that certain existing water mains and
related valves and hydrants are in deteriorated condition and in need of relining
and/or replacement to continue to provide safe potable water to all residents
and business and industrial users, and
WHEREAS the Village has determined that this 2023-2024 distribution
replacement project does not require or involve the formation of any new water
districts and does not involve the extension of water service to any properties
outside or inside the Village that are not already connected to the existing
municipal distribution system, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 22

WHEREAS the Village has authorized the Department of Public Works to
complete an Engineering Report with respect to the existing condition of the
distribution system and recommended repairs, replacement activities, and other
water system and infrastructure upgrades, and alternatives, and that Report
has been submitted to the Village Manager for review and comments, and
WHEREAS the Village is seeking grant assistance through the Water
Infrastructure Improvement Act (WIIA) administered by the NYS Environmental
Facilities Corporation (EFC) for final design and construction of the Harrison
Street Water Improvements Project as described above and, in the Village’s,
pending WIIA Application, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson intends to complete the project with
local funding and finance the non-WIIA portion of the proposed project budget
through serial bond proceeds as adopted by the Board of Trustees under
Resolution #140-2023 dated June 12, 2023, and/or any available water fund
reserves available for local capital projects,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees authorizes the
Village Manager to certify the 2023 WIIA Application documents and submit the
WIIA Application on behalf of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to the EFC on or
before August 11, 2023.
Trustee Simon stated that these are Federal dollars that have come from the
Infrastructure Law which are then allocated to the State Governments for their
administration.
Resolution 170 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the NYS Environmental Facilities Corporation (EFC), through the
Water Infrastructure Improvement Act (WIIA) Program, provides grant funding
to support drinking water infrastructure projects that are maintained by eligible
municipalities and improve water quality and delivery to residents and
businesses, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 23

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is seeking such funding through the
2023 funding cycle from the Water Infrastructure Improvement Act (WIIA)
Program administered by the EFC and the NYS Department of Health, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson intends to re-line an existing water
main on Harrison Street, connect that main to an existing 12-inch water main to
create a loop, and extend a new main on Sunset Trail to connect existing water
users to their own main closer to their residences, as well as replace
dysfunctional valves and hydrants (“the Proposed Action”), and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is required by New York State
regulations to undertake an environmental review of publicly funded
infrastructure projects including water distribution improvements under the
State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA), prior to the execution of any
State Assistance Contract should such funds be awarded to the Village by the
EFC or other agencies,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby determines
that the Proposed Action is a Type II Action under SEQRA, not requiring any
further action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees has classified the
proposed project as described in its funding application to be submitted to the
NYS Environmental Facilities Corporation (EFC) on or before August 11, 2023 to
consist of Type II Actions under SEQRA in accordance with 6 NYCRR Part
617.5(c)(1) and (2) regarding maintenance, repair, and replacement in kind of
existing water infrastructure, at the same locations and without increasing
distribution capacity or exceeding any Type I thresholds considered under 6
NYCRR Part 617.4.
Resolution 171 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 24

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit
application from Ameriland Brook LLC, to add a three-story mixed-use building
next to the existing one-story commercial building located at 352 South
Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS a Site Development Plan, Environmental Assessment Form, Coastal
Assessment Form, and site pictures have been submitted with the application,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby determines
that the proposed action is an unlisted action under SEQRA, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby declares its intent to
be the Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the proposed action
and authorizes the circulation of its intent to all involved and interested
agencies, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby refers the special
permit application and associated documents to the Village Planning Board and
the Westchester County Planning Department, in accordance with Village and
County law.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that this is a by-product of some of the Zoning work that
the Board did earlier in the year in the Harmon area and believes it will fit in
very nicely and looks forward to the next steps.
Trustee Nicholson asked if there has been any conversation with the owner of
352 South Riverside Avenue to see if they would be interested in purchasing the
EMS lot to expand their project.
Village Manager Healy stated that he does not believe the Village is in the
position to sell that lot right now, the Village is going to need that lot for some
emergency service functions, but since their property is adjacent to the EMS
property, he will certainly let them know that there will be some work on that
property.
Trustee Horowitz asked for an explanation of #12B in the EAF where we
indicated yes (“the project site or any portion of it is located in or adjacent to an

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 25

area designated as sensitive for archeological sites on the New York State
Historic Preservation Office Archeological Site Inventory”) and #20 where we
also answered yes (“has the site of their proposed action or an adjourning
property been the subject of remediation ongoing or completed for hazardous
waste”).
Village Attorney Whitehead said that with respect to 12B, very often the
“mapper” will say something which needs to be investigated further, even if it is
a significant distance away and number 20 could have been an old oil tank leak.
Village Manager Healy stated that he will look into this further.
Resolution 172 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton Business Council is desirous of holding an "Oktoberfest"
festival on Grand Street between Old Post Road S. and Mt. Airy Road on October
7, 2023, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has provided the Croton Business
Council with a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that delineates the
respective rights and obligations of the parties and defines their relationship for
the “Oktoberfest” event,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Memorandum of Understanding
with the Croton Business Council related to the “Oktoberfest” event.
Resolution 173-2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board
Meeting held on October 7, 2003, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 26

WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village fees through Board
Resolutions, and
WHEREAS pursuant to §86-21.1 of the Village Code, operating permits are
required for conducting certain processes or activities within buildings,
structures, or facilities, and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
amends the 2023-2024 Master Fee Schedule as follows:

Operating
Permit

§86-21.1
§86-21.1

§86-21.1

§86-21.1

§86-21.1
§86-21.1
§86-21.1

§86-21.1

Facilities where the operation produces
combustible dust
Operations utilizing flammable or combustible
liquids, or the application of combustible powders
regulated by Chapter 24 of the FCNYS
Operating a fruit or crop-ripening facility or
conducting a fruit-ripening process using ethylene
gas
Conducting fumigation or insecticidal fogging
operations in buildings, structures, and spaces,
except for fumigation or insecticidal fogging
performed by the occupant of a detached onefamily dwelling
Operating an air-supported temporary membrane
structure, a temporary special event structure, or a
tent where approval is required pursuant to
Chapter 31 of the FCNYS
High-piled combustible storage facilities with
more than 500 square feet (including aisles) of
high-piled storage
Operating a facility that stores in excess of 2,500
cubic feet of scrap tires or tire byproducts or
operating a tire rebuilding plant
Performing public exhibitions and demonstrations
where hot work is conducted, use of hot work,
welding, or cutting equipment, inside or on a
structure, except an operating permit is not
required where work is conducted under the
authorization of a building permit or where
performed by the occupant of a detached one- or

$500.00
$500.00
$500.00
$500.00

$500.00

$500.00
$500.00
$500.00

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 27

two-family dwelling

§86-21.1

§86-21.1
§86-21.1
§86-21.1
§86-21.1

§86-21.1
§86-21.1
§86-21.1
§86-21.1
§86-21.1

§86-21.1

§86-21.1
Resolution 174 of 2023

Conducting an alternative activity at a sugarhouse
Possessing, manufacturing, storing, handling,
selling, or using, explosives, fireworks, or other
pyrotechnic special effects materials except the
outdoor use of sparkling devices as defined by
Penal Law § 270
Conducting open burning, not including
recreational fires and portable outdoor fireplaces
Removing paint with a torch, or using open
flames, fire, and burning in connection with
assembly areas or educational occupancies
Operating a mobile food preparation vehicle
Energy storage systems, where the system
exceeds the values shown in Table 1206.1 of the
FCNYS or exceeds the permitted aggregate
ratings in Section R327.5 of the RCNYS
Buildings containing one or more assembly areas
Outdoor events where the planned attendance
exceeds 1,000 persons
Facilities that store, handle or use hazardous
production materials
Parking garages as defined in § 86-21.3
Buildings whose use or occupancy classification
may pose a substantial potential hazard to public
safety, as determined by resolution adopted by the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson;
Other processes or activities or for operating any
type of building, structure or facility as
determined by resolution adopted by the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.

$500.00
$500.00

$500.00
$500.00
$100.00
$500.00

$250.00
$500.00
$500.00
$500.00
$500.00

$500.00

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 28

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has resolved to authorize the Village
Manager to declare Village property as surplus once it has reached the end of its
useful life, and
WHEREAS the Village recently auctioned off eight vehicles and pieces of
equipment which were determined to be surplus, and
WHEREAS the total proceeds from this auction were $32,175, and
WHEREAS Superintendent of Public Works Frank Balbi has requested that these
funds be transferred into the DPW equipment capital account to fund the
Village’s fleet maintenance program,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the 2023-2024 General Fund Budget and 2023-2024 Capital Fund Budget
in the amount of $32,175 as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A1000.2665 – Sales of Equipment

$32,175

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A9901.9030 – Transfer to Capital Fund

$32,175

CAPITAL REVENUE
Increase
H1000.5031.24467 – Transfer from General Fund

$32,175

CAPITAL EXPENSES
Increase
H5110.2010.24467 – DPW Equipment

$32,175

9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, thanked the Police Chief for sending a
Police Officer to the Black Cow during the recent protests concerning a

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 29

Drag Queen display, thanked the Department of Public Works for the
prompt clean up of our storm drains, indicated that millions of gallons
of water released from the Croton Dam also contains some dangerous
minerals, concerned about the urbanization of parking lot A and
encouraged the Board not to allow buildings to exceed three stories.
10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular meeting held
on July 10, 2023, was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson thanked DPW staff for getting Silver Lake and
Mayo’s Landing up and running, this Wednesday evening Friends of
Croton Parks along with the Westchester Parks Foundation will be
holding a virtual meeting at 7:00pm and thanked all of our first
responders for their assistance in handling a recent situation involving
her mom.
Trustee Simon stated that the Sustainability Committee met yesterday
and updated us on the train station solar project, as well as some
funding sources they will be looking at in the future, last Thursday he
and Mayor Pugh greeted new participants of our Food Scrap Recycling
Program and thanked Keiko Niccolini for all her efforts, as announced
at our last meeting, NYSERDA has designated Croton number one in
the State for Clean Energy and thanked Lindsay Audin, our
Sustainability Committee and everyone in the community for all their
hard work towards this designation, met with the Manager and Trustee
Horowitz to discuss the Downtown Improvement Grant which we did
not receive, but we are pleased to see how high Croton was ranked
and we have been encouraged to reapply next year, the Rotary Car
Show will be held on October 1, from 11am-3:00pm.
Trustee Gallelli advised that prior to the meeting, she and members of
the Board attended a birthday celebration for John Giglio at the
Washington Engine Company in recognition of his 96th birthday, the
125th Anniversary Committee will be holding a concert on August 4th,

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 30

at Senasqua Park as part of their ongoing celebrations and reminded
everyone that Westchester County Bee-Line buses are free through
Labor Day weekend.
Trustee Horowitz stated that even though Croton was not chosen this
year for the Downtown Improvement Grant, we have a very vibrant
community that will be able to produce some creative ideas for the
next round of funding. Trustee Horowitz stated that one of the things
she took away from the meeting is that it is less about infrastructure
but more about the economics of business and how to promote
businesses. Trustee Horowitz reminded everyone that Croton has a
summer ban on gas powered leaf blowers, the Conservation Advisory
Committee continues to work on putting together a Repair Café,
anyone interested in participating should reach out to the Committee
at
ccac@crotononHudson-ny.gov,
the
Conservation
Advisory
Committee also has a resource page dedicated to sustainable planting
and gardening on the Village’s Website, the Great Loop Paddle
continues, and they are almost at the Akwesasne Mohawk Reservation.
Mayor
Pugh
made
the
following
appointments
to
the
Telecommunication Advisory Committee and appointed Trustee Gallelli
and Trustee Simon as Board Liaisons.
Ashok Malhotra
Bill McCabe
Chris Roose
Evan Perdomo-Cohen
Jonathan Salomons
Kathleen Reddy-Guidry
Maria Corrales
Hernandez
Richard Masur
Rolf Aaron LaMar
Village Manager Healy directed everyone to the Village’s Website for all
updates on Village activities.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2023
Page 31

There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was
adjourned at 8:21pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

