Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held
on Monday, August 28, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz – Via Zoom
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

The following official was absent:
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in
the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Gallelli made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, claims numbered 23241423 through 23241621. The motion
was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$318,885.59
$28,731.05
$2,629.89
$199,033.04
$1,363.26

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
a. A motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 15
of 2023, to amend Chapter 123, Firearms, of the Village Code was
made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that this Local Law will update our
Village Code to be in tandem with the State Law that was recently
changed.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202308/13676b2ff2b00564cfeef94d379bcc7ee4b39960.pd

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 2

There being no further comments to come before the Board, a
motion to close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Gallelli.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0
vote.
Resolution #188 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS New York State recently enacted legislation relating to the usage of
firearms in historical reenactments, military funeral salutes, and other similar
activities, and
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 123, Firearms, of the Village
Code to reflect these changes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is considering the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 15 of 2023, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 15 of 2023 was
opened and closed on August 28, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 15 of 2023 to amend Chapter 123, Firearms,
of the Village Code, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 15 of 2023.

b. A motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 16
of 2023, to codify the source separation and segregation of
recyclable or reusable materials was made by Trustee Gallelli.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0
vote.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a
motion to close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Nicholson.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0
vote.

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 3

Resolution 189 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to add a new Chapter 185
entitled “Recycling” to the Village Code to codify the source separation and
segregation of recyclable materials, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is considering the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 16 of 2023, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2023 was
opened and closed on August 28, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2023, codifying the source separation
and segregation of recyclable materials, which upon adoption becomes Local
Law No. 16 of 2023.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL
E-mail from Fred Tames, 6 Barton Place, Croton on Hudson, dated
August 28, 2023, addressing the noise levels from the festival held at
Senasqua Park on Sunday, August 27th. Mr. Tames stated that decibel
levels were not adhered to.
Village Manager Healy explained that at the request of a local business
owner, the Village authorized a permit for the August 27th event at
Senasqua Park. Village Manager Healy explained that this has been the
Village’s policy in the past to allow Village businesses to hold events at
Senasqua Park, DPW staff and Police officers were brought in on
overtime, which was paid by the event organizers. Village Manager
Healy stated that the attendance was larger than anticipated, with
close to 1,000 people as opposed to the 275-500 people that they
originally estimated. Village Manager Healy stated that one of our main
issues is that the organizers charged a fee for entry into the park,
which is prohibited, and the Village will be seeking to issue some sort
of violation, the Police monitored noise levels throughout the day, and

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 4

the organizers were asked to lower the volume numerous times when
it was determined that it was exceeding the noise ordinance. Village
Manager Healy advised that the staff along with the Board will be
meeting in the near future to go over our policies and procedures and
to make necessary improvements to the application process.
Mayor Pugh praised the diligence of our DPW staff and Police
Department for their flexibility in handling the situation very
professionally, our Police Chief was there for the entire day and had to
make a lot of decisions on the fly based on the information available at
the time and given the numbers in attendance it was a relatively safe,
family event.
Trustee Simon stated that he understands that there may have been
some flaws in the process, this was a family gathering and while the
crowd was very large, it was great to see families coming together and
enjoying the Park.
Trustee Gallelli stated that she was in attendance in the early part of
the day, this was a family event and thanked our DPW staff and Police
Department for doing their job in a very friendly way and assisting the
attendees.
Trustee Nicholson stated that this was a good learning experience, we
want to encourage people to use the park and asked for an overview
of the process for renting our parks, and who actually signed the
contract between the Village and the Vendor.
Village Manager Healy explained that it is not a contract but rather a
permit application which is typically approved by the Recreation
Department for applicants with a Recreation I.D. card. Village Manager
Healy explained that the Village Code grants the Village Manager the
authority to regulate entrance and admission to all parks and because
this was a business owner, the application was signed by himself.
Trustee Horowitz asked if this was the first-time admission was
charged at Senasqua.

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 5

Village Manager Healy stated that as far as he knows it was but
explained that charging admission was not authorized, and they were
told that admission was not allowed.
Trustee Nicolson stated that from a marketing perspective there was
some criticism that it was not marketed enough to Croton residents
and if the poster had been provided to the village, then we may have
had a better idea of what was happening.
Village Manager Healy stated that we will be addressing various
changes in the application process when we meet to discuss this.
5. Review of the Environment Assessment Form Part II and the Village's
Local Waterfront Revitalization Program policies by the Village Board to
determine consistency related to Local Law Introductory No. 17 of
2023, to amend and update provisions of the Zoning Code.
SHORT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM PART II
No, or
small
impact
may occur
1.

Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics that caused
the establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing level of traffic
or affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walkway?

√

6.

√

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to
incorporate reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?
b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic,
archaeological, architectural or aesthetic resources?

√
√
√

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 6

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources (e.g.,
wetlands, waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or human health?

√

Local Waterfront Revitalization Program Policies
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and
underutilized waterfront areas for commercial,
industrial, cultural, recreational and other compatible
uses
Existing planning and zoning documents should be
reviewed and amended where necessary to ensure
development within the community is consistent with
adopted goals and policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned land at the
Metro North Train Station, including Village garage
and bay area. Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of requirements
relating to parking and accessory uses of Metro North
Train Station, while facilitating public access to bay
area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the municipality to
encourage the mutual cooperation and exchange of
information between governmental agencies involved
in clean-up of the Croton landfill and Metro-North
lagoon in order to develop commercial use of
resources found in the coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating structures related
to railroad use and assure appropriate maintenance
and screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant site at the
intersection of Route 9A and Municipal Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent uses and
facilities on or adjacent to coastal waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power boats on the
Hudson River and Croton River and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters that regulate
boat traffic such a speed, turbidity, safety, and
mooring and sludge disposal. Such controls will
further increase the compatibility of power boat use
with other forms of recreation use within the coastal
zone area.
The state coastal policy regarding the development of
major ports is not applicable to
Croton.

1A

1B

1C

1D
1E
2
2A

3

WAC RESPONSE

VILLAGE BOARD

Applicable
Yes/No
No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No

No

No
No
No
No

No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 7

4
5

5A

5B

5C

6
6A

7
7A

7B

7C

The state coastal policy regarding the strengthening
of small harbors is not applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development in areas
where public services and facilities essential to such
development are adequate, except when such
development has special functional requirements or
other characteristics which necessitate its location in
other coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the Village should
be directed within the current service area of existing
water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently exist.
The extension of water and sewer distribution lines
beyond areas currently served should be undertaken
cautiously and with prudent regard for Village water
resources and the preservation of environmental
values in undeveloped areas.
Limit proposed development within those portions of
the coastal zone boundary area, where traffic impacts
such as site distance and carrying capacity of the
roadways are restricted, particularly along Route 9A,
Albany Post Road and Route 129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the
siting of development activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the Village shall
coordinate all relevant local laws into a development
package for applicants and/or make all local laws
available to applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be
protected, preserved, and, where practical, restored
so as to maintain their viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay significant
fish and wildlife habitat and Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat shall be protected
and improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic,
recreational, and other public uses and values. Its
resources shall be protected from the threat of
pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade
or destroy the ecological system of the Croton River
and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat
shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on
land within, the area of influence in the significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological system of the
Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat or Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be permitted within the area of
influence of the habitat unless best available
technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to the

No
No

No

No

No

No
No

No
No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 8

7D

7E

7F

7G
8

9

9A

9B

10

habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the
Croton River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay significant
fish and wildlife habitats and shore lands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of any adjacent
toxic and hazardous waste sites.
Runoff from public and private parking lots and from
storm sewer overflows shall be effectively channeled
so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants
from polluting surface and ground water and impact
the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not cause a
measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activity, or impact other locations.
Construction activity shall be timed so that spawning
of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be
adversely affected.
Such activities must not cause degradation of water
quality or impact identified significant fish and wildlife
habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area
from the introduction of hazardous wastes and other
pollutants which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub lethal or lethal effect on
those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and wildlife resources
in coastal areas by increasing access to existing
resources, supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts shall be
made in a manner which ensures the protection of
renewable fish and wildlife resources and considers
other activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and public access
to the rivers through Village-owned land adjacent to
the Metro-North parking lot, at Croton Point Park and
at Senasqua Park, along the Croton River, and at the
Croton Yacht Club. Efforts should be made to
encourage recreational use of the fish and wildlife
resources found in these areas by increasing the
opportunities for public access and enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the
wildlife in the designated significant fish and wildlife
habitats, on the Audubon Society Sanctuaries, on
other public or private lands within the Village, where
wildlife habitats are located. Encourage the
recreational use of areas where such resources are
found, as well as the protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish, shellfish and
crustacean resources in the coastal area by
encouraging the construction of new or improvement
of existing onshore commercial fishing facilities,
increasing marketing of the state's seafood products,
maintaining adequate stocks, and expanding
aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall be made in a
manner which ensures the protection of renewable

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 9

11

11A

12

12A

13

13A

14

15

16

fish and wildlife resources and considers other
activities dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited in the
coastal area so as to minimize damage to property
and the endangering of human lives caused by
flooding and erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures shall be
undertaken in order to safeguard persons, protect
property, prevent damage to the environment, and
promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or other activity
which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth
movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal area will be
undertaken so as to minimize damage to natural
resources and property from flooding and erosion by
protecting natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs. Primary
dunes will be protected from all encroachments that
could impair their natural protective capacity
Every effort should be made to protect Croton Point, a
natural protective barrier to Croton Bay from activities
or development that would increase erosion of or
flooding of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures shall be undertaken only if they
have a reasonable probability of controlling erosion for
at least thirty years as demonstrated in design and
construction standards and/or assured maintenance
or replacement programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be maintained
in good condition and private landowners should be
required to restore and maintain erosion control
mechanisms along their river frontage which are
designed for long term stability.
Activities and development, including the construction
or reconstruction of erosion protection structures,
shall be undertaken so that there will be no
measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at other
locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal waters shall
not significantly interfere with the natural coastal
processes which supply beach materials to land
adjacent to such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase in erosion of
such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion protective
structures where necessary to protect human life, and
new development which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be able to
function, or existing development; and only where the

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 10

16A

17

17A

18

19

19A

19B
19C

19D
19E

public benefits outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for increasing
erosion and adverse effects on natural protective
features
Public funds shall be appropriated for the yearly
maintenance of Senasqua Park until such time that is
determined that expenditure of funds outweighs the
cost of acquiring, constructing and maintaining a
similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural measures to
minimize damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion. Such measures shall
include: (i) the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the installation of sand
fencing and draining; (iii) the reshaping of bluffs; and
(iv) the flood-proofing of buildings or their elevation
above the base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers and on the
steep slopes rising from areas inland shall be of a
non-structural nature, wherever possible, in
consideration of the visual impact of structural
measures. The retention or planting of vegetative
covers will be preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social and
environmental interests of the state and of its citizens,
proposed major actions in the coastal area must give
full consideration to those interests, and to the
safeguards which the state has established to protect
valuable coastal resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level and types of
access to public water-related recreation resources
and facilities so that these resources and facilities
may be fully utilized in accordance with reasonably
anticipated public recreation needs and the protection
of historic and natural resources. In providing such
access, priority will be given to public beaches,
boating facilities, fishing areas and waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or
walkway system. Such systems should be provided
along undeveloped and underutilized land as well as
along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that have specific
value for their physical and visual access to the
Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public transportation,
when feasible, to areas within the coastal zone area
where water dependent and water enhanced
recreation activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and Bay at the
Village-owned land south of the Village parking lots at
the Croton-Harmon Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access to the Croton
River waterfront, in its current undeveloped condition
as a pedestrian walkway.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 11

20

21

21A

22

23

24

25

25A

Access to the publicly owned foreshore and to lands
immediately adjacent to the foreshore or the water's
edge that are publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner compatible with
adjoining uses. Such lands shall be retained in public
ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced recreation will
be encouraged and facilitated and will be given
priority over non-water related uses along the coast,
provided it is consistent with the preservation and
enhancement of other coastal resources and takes
into account demand for such facilities. In facilitating
such activities, priority shall be given to areas where
access to the recreation opportunities of the coast can
be provided by new or existing public transportation
services and to those areas where the use of the
shore is severely restricted by existing development.
Boating activities should be encouraged provided that
they do not restrict other recreational opportunities
and are undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the shore will
provide for water-related recreation, as a multiple use,
whenever such recreational use is appropriate in light
reasonably anticipated demand for such activities and
the primary purpose of the development
Protect, enhance and restore structures, districts, in
areas of sites that are of significance in the history,
architecture, archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of statewide
significance as identified on the coastal area map.
Impairment shall include: (i) the irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the destruction or
removal of vegetation, the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic forms, vegetation
or structures are significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition of structures
which because of siting or scale will reduce identified
views or which because of scale, form, or materials
will diminish the scenic quality of an identified
resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made
resources which are not identified as being of
statewide significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Protect local scenic resources by preventing: (i) the
irreversible modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or wetlands, the
destruction, or removal of structures, whenever the
geologic forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an identified
resources; and (ii) the addition of structures which

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 12

25B
25C

25D

26
27

28

28A
29
30

30A

30B
31

because of siting scale will reduce identified views or
which because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an identified resource.
Secure the designation of the panoramic views from
Croton Point as a scenic area of statewide
significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and 129 within
the Croton boundaries as a scenic road. Ensure
developments on or adjacent to Route 9 do not impair
scenic resources or views of or from the Hudson and
Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified view-sheds which
provide visual access to the Hudson River, including
but not limited to the views of the Hudson River from
the western shoreline of the Village, and from Prickly
Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River Landing. In
addition, protect view-sheds to and of the Croton
River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the protection of
agricultural lands is not applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction of major
energy facilities in the coastal area will be based on
public energy needs, compatibility of such facilities
with the environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not damage
significant fish and wildlife and their habitats, increase
shoreline erosion or flooding, or interfere with the
production of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must consider short and
long- term impacts on the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the development of
energy resources is not applicable to Croton.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial discharge of
pollutants, including but not limited to, toxic and
hazardous substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportation-related
facilities shall not dispose any materials in coastal
waters until such materials have been tested by the
state for conformance with water quality standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials shall be
monitored by the state to assure there will be no
discharge or leaching of materials into coastal waters.
State coastal area policies and purposes of approved
local waterfront revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal water
classifications and while modifying water quality
standards; however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be recognized as
being a development constraint.

No
No

No

No
No

No

No
No
No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 13

31A

32

33
33A

33B
34

34A
35

36

37

37A

37B

Clean water is desired and NYSDEC should
continually monitor water quality in the Hudson River
and Croton Bay which have already been
overburdened with pollutants. Recommendations for
mitigation and upgrading water quality classifications
cannot be determined without continual monitoring
and testing of the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or innovative
sanitary waste systems in small communities where
the costs of conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax base of these
communities.
Best Management Practices will be used to ensure
the control of storm water runoff and combined sewer
overflows draining into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain storm water
runoff on site so as to not increase flows within the
existing system or to improve existing storm water
runoff systems to that runoff from such developments
does not adversely impact coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water discharge to
control flow of pollutants from street and parking
areas, etc. directly in the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters from vessels
will be limited so as to protect significant fish and
wildlife habitats, recreational areas and water supply
areas.
There shall be no discharge from moored structures
or marine vessels, due to shape of cove and lack of
tidal flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in coastal waters
will be undertaken in a manner that meets existing
state dredging permit requirements, and protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic resources,
natural protective features, important agricultural
lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and storage of
petroleum and other hazardous materials will be
conducted in a manner that will prevent or at lease
minimize spills into coastal waters; all practicable
efforts will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup of
such discharges; and restitution for damages will be
required when these spills occur.
Best Management Practices will be utilized to
minimize the non-point discharge of excess nutrients,
organics and eroded soils into coastal waters.

No

Standards and specifications for the control of nonpoint source discharge as set forth in Westchester
County's Best Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized during
development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops, and steep
slopes should be exerted in order to prevent erosion
and minimize runoff and flooding from new

No

No

No
No

No
No

No
No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 14

38

39

39A

39B

40

41
41A
42

43
43A

43B

44
44A

construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water and ground
water supplies will be conserved and protected,
particularly where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and disposal of solid
wastes, particularly hazardous wastes, within coastal
areas will be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water supplies,
significant fish and wildlife habitats, recreation areas,
important agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Require transporters, producers and storers of
hazardous material to inform the public or allow public
access to records involving the transport, storage,
treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. This
is of particular concern with respect to rail transport of
such materials, storage of identified materials on
railroad property and uses in the waterfront area
involved in the treatment, storage and disposal of
such materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302, Emergency
Planning and Community Right-to- Know of the 1986
Superfund Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
planning committee and the Croton Fire Department
shall be notified if hazardous substances exceed the
established threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam electric
generating and industrial facilities into coastal waters
will not be unduly injurious to fish and wildlife and
shall conform to state water quality standards.
Land use or development in the coastal area will not
cause national or state air quality standards to be
violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring station should
be established within the Village of Croton-onHudson.
Coastal management policies will be considered if the
state reclassifies land areas pursuant to the
prevention of significant deterioration regulations of
the Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal area must not
cause the generation of significant amounts of the
acid rain precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus service to the train
station, thereby decreasing dependency on the
automobile use and reduce the generation of acid rain
precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil fuels for rail
vehicles and encourage the development of a
monitoring program to assess rail vehicle engines
emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands
and preserve the benefits derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be
protected by preventing damage from erosion or

No

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

No
No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 15

siltation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural
habitats and protecting against flood and pollution.

Trustee Gallelli stated that in addition to the change in the definition of “Family”
there are a few smaller changes and corrections to various sections that were
identified when General Code was reviewing our Code.
Trustee Horowitz asked what the problem was with the original definition of
family.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that there has been a number of cases in
recent years that have addressed the question as to the definition of a family,
and this change will bring Croton’s Code into consistency with where the Courts
have been going. Village Attorney Whitehead explained that a lot of the cases
looked at how unrelated individuals are treated and what you can look at to
determine whether they are a family or just someone renting a room within a
single-family dwelling, and we were concerned that Croton’s existing definition
could have been challenged.
Village Manager Healy explained that, under the current definition, more than
five unrelated people in a household would not be considered a family unit, but
an unlimited number of related individuals could be considered a family unit.
Village Manager Healy stated that we want to prevent what happens in other
Westchester communities where people have turned single-family or two-family
homes into boarding houses, and it is important that this definition be legally
sound.
6. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Letter from the Police Department regarding a request to donate two
underutilized bikes to the Yorktown Police Department.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202308/996f282f049eda22200817fdd222ba525e4f80c8.pdf
RESOLUTION
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson, the Board
of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the request from the

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 16

Police Department to donate two underutilized bikes to the Yorktown Police
Department. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
b. Letter from Vic Conte, President of the Croton Lions Club, requesting to hold
their annual Christmas tree sales fundraiser on South Riverside Avenue across
from Shoprite.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202308/4c7fcad4d2059e66dce75f30bcd20269a2f55b77.pdf
RESOLUTION
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the request from the
Croton Lions Club to hold their annual Christmas Tree sale on South Riverside
Avenue across from Shoprite. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS - none
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution 190 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application
from Ameriland Brook LLC, to add a three-story mixed-use building next to the
existing one-story commercial building located at 352 South Riverside Avenue,
and
WHEREAS on July 24, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent to
serve as Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its
intent to all involved agencies, and
WHEREAS, the Village has received comments back from the Village Planning
Board stating that they have no objections to the Village Board of Trustees
acting as Lead Agency, and

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 17

WHEREAS, the 30-day window to send comments regarding the Village’s intent
to serve as lead agency has now passed,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the proposed
action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers the
special permit application and CAF to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for a
recommendation of consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP).
DISCUSSION
Trustee Simon stated that the Planning Board did a very good job reviewing this
project, they have made some good suggestions should this get to the next
phase of the Site Plan review and looks forward to seeing how the Planning
Board and developer work together.
Village Manager Healy advised that we have also received some comments from
our Fire Department and Westchester County Department of Planning.
Resolution 191 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS in 2011, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson agreed to serve as the
municipal sponsor with the New York State Department of Transportation
(NYSDOT) for the Van Cortlandt Manor Entrance Improvement Project, and
WHEREAS under this contract, the Village issued an invitation to bid on June 13,
2023, for the project, and
WHEREAS five bids were received at the time of the bid opening on August 10,
2023, and
WHEREAS the five bids received for the project were higher than anticipated,
and

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 18

WHEREAS Historic Hudson Valley has recommended that the bids be rejected,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby rejects the bids received on August 10, 2023, for the
Van Cortlandt Manor Entrance Improvement Project.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Simon asked what is the process when an entity determines that a bid is
too high?
Village Manager Healy stated that in the past when the Village had projects that
came in over budget, we went back and reviewed the project and removed
certain aspects of the project to reduce costs.
Resolution 192 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend and update provisions of Chapter
230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering taking an action to adopt Local Law
Introductory No. 17 of 2023 which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on August 14, 2023, the Village Board declared itself to be Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the Proposed Action, and referred
the Proposed Action to the Village Planning Board, Waterfront Advisory
Committee and Westchester County Planning Board for comment in accordance
with law, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received memoranda of support from the
Village Planning Board, Westchester County Planning Board and Waterfront
Advisory Committee regarding the Proposed Action,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on Tuesday, September 12, 2023, at 6 PM, in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal
Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York 10520, to consider

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 19

Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2023, amending and updating provisions of
Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Resolution 193 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has made a number of personnel changes in recent weeks,
and
WHEREAS certain budgetary accounts need to have funding reallocated as a
result of these changes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board authorizes the Village
Treasurer to make the following budget transfers in the General Fund:
A1110.1000 – Justice Court Personnel - increase by $34,030.11.
A1980.4000 – MTA Payroll Tax - decrease by $13,271.74.
A1680.1000 – Central Data Processing Personnel - decrease by $20,758.37.
Resolution 194 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Department of Public Works bought, prepared, and sold food and
drink items at three of the Summer Concerts at Senasqua Park, and
WHEREAS these expenses were not budgeted for in the 2023-2024 General
Fund Budget, and
WHEREAS the Department collected $1,186.81 from the sale of food and drink
items, and
WHEREAS the Superintendent of Public Works has requested these funds to be
transferred into the Department’s operating account,

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 20

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make
the following budget amendment to the 2023-2024 General Fund budget as
follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A7110.4200 – Recreation – Supplies

$ 1,186.81

GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A7020.2001 – Parks & Recreation Fees

$ 1,186.81

Resolution 195 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS due to an error in the chart of accounts a revenue of $18,000 was
budgeted two times, and
WHEREAS the Village has experienced more revenue in Interest and Earnings
than anticipated in the Adopted Budget for Fiscal Year 2023-2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Manager and the Village Treasurer recommend amending
the 2023-2024 General Fund budget to account for these factors,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make
the following budget amendment to the 2023-2024 General Fund budget as
follows:
GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A1000.2401 – Interest & Earnings

$18,000

Decrease
A1440.2550 – Public Safety Permits

$18,000

9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 21

Fred Tames, 6 Barton Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that the rear of
his property is approximately a half mile from the Senasqua bandstand,
and he has always enjoyed listening to summer concerts from his deck.
Mr. Tames stated that what occurred this past Saturday was not music,
but rather a music attack, and suggested, in the future, Village staff be
equipped with a decibel meter to monitor the sound.
Mayor Pugh stated that Police were on the scene, and they intervened
when the noise exceeded acceptable levels.
Kate Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the
Board to keep Croton a small community and does not want to see our
zoning changed that would increase density.
Tony Granger, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, stated that because
of the Senasqua event this past Saturday, people were parking at the
Marina, and attempting to park at Half Moon Bay, and he does not
understand why, on the last weekend of the summer, when residents
should have had exclusive access to the park, the Village allowed nonresidents access.
Mayor Pugh stated that the number of people certainly exceeded our
expectations which created parking issues, it is the first time that
something like this happened but our Police and DPW managed as best
as they could, and we will certainly be making our taxpayers whole for
any expenses the Village incurred.
Trustee Simon stated that the parking issue will be part of our debriefing.
Colleen Beyrer, 19 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that if
there were flyers with links to purchase tickets on-line and thousands
of people knew about, how is it that the Village did not know.
Village Manager Healy stated that the event organizer disregarded our
directive that they could not charge entrance fees for the event, and we
will be going after them for a violation of our Code.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, commended Village
staff for their excellent responses during the recent heavy rainstorms,

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 22

the access to Mayo’s Landing is not accessible to anyone with a
disability and drastic improvements need to be made, concerned with
increased large scale housing projects in Croton, and the current
housing crises which he believes is caused by illegal immigration.
Debbie Braddick, 9 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked that the
Village look into adding a stop sign on the roadway entering CET.
Village Manager Healy advised that new stop signs require an
engineering study, and it is a little more involved than just putting up a
stop sign.
Trustee Simon stated that the Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee has
got their eyes on that intersection to try to come up with a better
solution.
10.APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held
on August 14, 2023, was made by Trustee Gallelli. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on August
21, 2023, was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on August 21,
2023, was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11.REPORTS
Trustee Nicholson proposed making zoom meetings available all the
time, the Hudson River Arts and Crafts festival will be held this
Saturday at Senasqua Park from 11-5pm, and thanked DPW staff and
the Croton Police Department for all their hard work handling this past
Saturday’s event at Senasqua Park.
Trustee Simon thanked the 125th Anniversary Committee for putting
together the boat flotilla, the 125th Anniversary Committee will also be
putting together a yearbook highlighting all the activities that have

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 23

taken place this past year, the Telecommunications Advisory
Committee held their 2nd meeting on August 21st wherein they met
with the company that is drafting a Master Plan and welcomed Little
Sprouts boutique to the Village.
Trustee Gallelli stated that the zoom meeting worked well this evening
and thanked Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini for putting
this together for us, the Telecommunications Committee’s next step
will be to review surveys that the company has done in other
communities so that they can tailor a survey that will fit the needs for
Croton, Hudson River Day will be held at the Croton Yacht Club next
Saturday, the Village of Croton along with the Village of Buchanan and
the Town of Cortlandt will be holding a 9-11 ceremony at Croton
Landing, and thanked our DPW staff for the beautiful new plantings
along the path and at the 9-11 memorial.
Mayor Pugh addressed concerns raised regarding increased housing in
the Village and explained that while the details of housing in the
Village have changed over time, the strategy and direction has not and
referred everyone to the 2003 Comprehensive Plan. Mayor Pugh
stated that the Comprehensive Plan talks about how sub-divisions
created over the last twenty years has provided needed additional
housing, with the exception of Half Moon Bay these developments
have provided only single-family homes best suited for families but the
demand for appropriately sized affordable housing for aging Croton
residents, young couples without children and Village personnel is
growing. Mayor Pugh stated that the Village has worked with the
Croton Housing Network to provide housing that will meet the needs of
the Village, and the Village should continue to examine ways to
approach lower cost, smaller size, single and multi-family dwellings in
order to maintain the demographic diversity of the Village. Mayor
Pugh stated that the Village Code must be in conformance with our
adopted Comprehensive Plan, and we are working diligently towards
that.
Mayor Pugh thanked DPW staff and our first responders for the
management of the event that took place this past weekend at
Senasqua Park.

Village Board of Trustees
August 28, 2023
Page 24

Village Manager Healy advised that starting this Saturday food service
establishments will be prohibited from providing plastic cutlery unless
requested.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was
adjourned at 8:28pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

