MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Oct. 22, 2023 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair and CSC Coordinator)

Absent:
Alexandra Barkan

Dan Columbini PE
Ashley Clemente
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (Comm. Gardens)
Brian Pugh (Mayor of Croton)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
Bernie Yozwiak (Care for Creation Ministry)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): none
Announcement: On 10/16, Mayor Pugh appointed Alexandra Barkan to the Committee.
- NYSERDA CEC-sponsored projects
New Community Campaigns (community solar, EVs, HPs):
- On community solar, Sol’s customer acquisition contractor (Community Solar
Platform a/k/a CSP) enrolled 112 subscribers (all at the Skyview Rehab and Care
Center), pushing us over the CEC achievement level (50) needed to secure a $10K
grant and 300 CEC points. Paperwork to that end was filed 10/20.
The other 62 subscribers will be “banked” for the next achievement level. It requires
100 more, so we need to enlist 38 other subscribers. Doing so will yield another $20K
grant and 500 more CEC points. CSP’s online enrollment page has been posted, but
Joel found it needs serious “cleanup” before our own enrollment efforts can begin.
- On identifying at least 25 new HP installations to secure 2 other grants totaling
$30K grant and 1,300 CEC points, we need only cite those at the new Maple St. Apts.
(to be done by Feb. 2024). A total of 66 HPs will be installed in those 33 apartments.
- Finding at least 65 new EVs (not used or leased) in Croton presents a greater
challenge. Success would yield an additional $22.5K in 2 grants and 800 CEC points.
On 9/27, a new volunteer agreed to help, but - after receiving an outline of the task he did not respond and is no longer involved. On 9/28, Lindsay filed a Freedom of
Information Law (FOIL) request to NYSERDA for data on recipients of the NYS Drive
Clean Rebates ($2K each). That data may help identify EV/PHEV buyers in Croton
since 6/1/23. An initial response is expected by 10/27.
- Solar Projects/Issues

1

Train station canopies: completion is slated
for late spring 2024. Dave took progress
pics of work at the south end (near the salt
shed). On 10/12, Sol indicated that cranes
will soon arrive at the north end to lift the
>5-ton POWIN battery containers onto their
newly finished concrete pads.
DPW solar canopy option: Mayor Pugh
said that though the $100K CREST grant
was used by the Village to buy 2 municipal
EVs, funding was “fungible” such that the
Village could provide $100K from its general funding toward a solar canopy.
On 9/30, Lindsay asked NYPA for DPW’s 2022 hourly electric interval data to assess
any peak demand issues. On 10/10, Frank Balbi said there were no known NY DEP
issues with installing a canopy, but indicated that a definitive answer will require DEP
review of the proposed design.
After Jon’s extensive analysis of various NYPA and Con Ed tariff issues related to net
metering, he explained a way we could install a ~80 kW (or larger) DPW canopy and
retain the carbon credits from its solar production. The method bypasses two limits on
the size of the system, and a rule that would have given the carbon credits to Con Ed.
Jon’s work took considerable time (and brain cells). We thanked him for his work.
On 10/18, Lindsay zoomed with NYPA re: project mgt. assistance for the project from
its Customer Project Delivery division, but its estimated cost for the job (including its
12.5% management fee) was almost triple our available funding. On 10/21, CEG
(which built the DPW solar rooftop) was asked to provide a realistic ballpark cost.
- EV/EVSE
We reviewed a problem that is delaying our $150K DEC train station EV charger
grant. On 10/10, DEC stated: “We have to resubmit the procurement to the
comptroller, which will take some time to put together. I’m not sure where any of this
will lead or how long it will take”. We were previously told the contract would arrive in
“mid to late July”. It is impacting installation of the electrical infrastructure for the first
12 charge ports. It’s unclear how this got so bungled at the State level. Brian will raise
the issue with our State Sen. Pete Harckham.
On 10/2, Bryan Healy said the County was offering a grant program to cover 50% of
the cost to install public EV chargers. It could have helped fund the other 12 train
station EV charge ports not covered by our ~$150K DEC charger grant. Later (10/17)
info indicated the program was of no use to us.
- Funding Sources/Issues
In late September, Len attended two webinars on DOE and EPA grant programs for
energy projects: the Low-Income Communities Bonus Credit Program, which offers an
2

extra 20% ITC, and EPA’s Climate Pollution Reduction Grants. Len sent reports on
each with several slides. After analysis, it was apparent that for various reasons
Croton is not eligible for either. His reports are appended to these minutes.
- Heat Pumps
Work on a general HP advisory posting stalled due to members’ work demands and
the complexities and economics of switching home heating systems to HPs. Instead of
pushing HPs on existing homes with presently acceptable heating systems, it may
make sense to instead suggest HP adoption only where full HVAC replacement is
needed due to age or failure, or in gut rehabs of older homes, and in new construction.
We agreed to table further work until docs on securing HP incentives are available.
Regarding replacing the aging A/C units at DPW with ASHPs, 3 energy audit
proposals were received by 10/6 that will estimate the cost and savings for such
replacements. The audit will cost $4,400, to be paid from one of our CEC grants.
Delivery is expected by Christmas.
With regard to promoting replacement of residential electric water heaters with
HPWHs, we discussed drafts of two web postings to explain and encourage doing so.
Lindsay will adjust their text as suggested by several committee members.
- Other Reports
Alexandra was unable to attend a 10/21 meeting of ~50 reps of local sustainability
committees and CACs held by the Federated Conservationists of Westchester County
(FCWC) at Scarsdale’s Greenburgh Nature Center. Brendan McNamara of FCWC will
provide info on the event for our next meeting.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
On 10/3, Lindsay attended a zoom by the Purchase College Sustainability Coalition. It
featured energy services by Ron Kamen of EarthKind Energy. Eight people attended.
- New Business / Other Issues
We briefly discussed indoor air quality, Energy Recovery Ventilation (ERV), and the
lifetimes of water heaters. At a future date TBD, Dan agreed to host a tour of his new
passive house and HP systems.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, Dec. 3, at 10:30 AM via zoom.

3

Len’s report on two federal funding programs
Low Income Communities Bonus Credit Program
Principal presenters were representatives from the DOE Energy Justice Projects Division and
the Department of Treasury Office of the Counselor for Racial Equity. The focus was how the
30% Direct Pay version of the investment tax credit could be raised up to 40 or 50% by a project
meeting certain low income criteria. A fixed amount is set aside for this purpose in 2023 1.8GW. In other words, when projects equaling 1.8MW are approved, additional ITC credits will
no longer be available.
For a project located in a “Low Income Community” 700MW’s are allocated, and the tax credit
addition is 10%. For a “Qualified Low-Income Residential Building Project” the MW allocation is
200, and the additional tax credit is 20%. For a “Qualified Low-Income Economic Benefit
Project”, the MW allocation is 700 and the additional tax credit is also 20%.
The key question is whether there are any projects in Croton that meet any of those definitions.
I’ve attached some key slides from the webinar which provide some possible sources where it
can be determined if these definitions are applicable to Croton projects. This link from
IRS https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/elective-pay-and-transferability might also be helpful.
Also, as you’ll see from the slides, specific questions on this program can be asked directly to
DOE at ejbonussupport@hq.doe.gov. Should it be determined that any of projects are eligible,
applications can be submitted starting yesterday (October 19th) through November 18
(application period may be continued depending on the applications they receive).
Climate Pollution Reduction Grants
This is Environmental Protection Agency $4.3 billion program for states, localities and tribes is
focused on fund GHG reduction projects. Eligibility includes new projects, expansion of a project
already being implemented or one for which partial funding has been obtained.
Grants will range from $2.0 million to $500 million. I have also attached slides from this webinar
to illustrate some of the highlights of the program. But as you can see, at the lower end of the
scale – grants awarded between $2.0 - $10.0 million, which would have been the most likely for
us to seek - there are relative few grants available – 10 to 50 nationally, for total funding of $100
million. Applications will begin in the spring.
Most significantly, though, I believe we may have an eligibility hurdle. This overall grant program
is for implementation of a previous grant which was for creation of a “Priority Climate Action
Plan” (PCAP). I don’t believe we applied for that previously. From the webinar I learned that we
could apply an implementation grant if we are included in another level of government’s PCAP
plan (county, regional body, state) but it’s likely that any of those will have their own priorities to
pursue with this funding.
I’ll certainly keep a lookout for any future PCAP funding availabilities which would open up the
possibility of subsequent implementation grants for us.
This link https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/cprg-planning-grant-information provides
more information on the Priority Climate Action Plan component of the Climate Pollution
Reduction Grants. We can also address specific questions on the Climate Pollution Reduction
Grants to the EPA staff running this program at cprg@epa.gov.
I hope this is helpful and look forward to following-up on next steps.

4

