A Special Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
was held on Tuesday, October 10, 2023 in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Assistant to Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson

The following official was absent:
Trustee Horowitz
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 5:05pm. Everyone joined in the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mayor Pugh called for a moment of silence in remembrance of the lives
lost as a result of the recent terrorist attacks in Israel.
Resolution #211 of 2023
On motion of Trustee Simon, and seconded by Trustee Gallelli, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Croton Business Council and the Village are partners to an agreement
dated July 25, 2023 (“the Agreement”), regarding the "Oktoberfest" festival; and
WHEREAS, the festival, originally scheduled for October 7, 2023, was postponed due
to inclement weather; and
WHEREAS, the two parties wish to agree upon additional rain dates for the festival,
as well as memorialize additional costs related to the festival potentially taking place
on a Sunday,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute an Amendment to the Memorandum of
Understanding with the Croton Business Council related to the “Oktoberfest” event.
DISCUSSION
Village Manager Healy explained that the amendment includes the additional rain
dates of October 15, October 21, and October 22. Manager Healy stated that Trustee
Horowitz was unable to attend the special meeting, but wanted to share her support
for the resolution. Mayor Pugh stated that other events in the region have been
experiencing similar setbacks with rainy weekends. Mayor Pugh commended the
event organizers for their determination and persistence to ensure the event happens
as it is eagerly awaited by many Village residents.

Village Board of Trustees
October 10, 2023
Page 2

There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close the
special meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 5:15pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Emily Mancini, Assistant to the Village Manager

