Croton-on-Hudson Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee
April 2023 Meeting
Date: April 19, 2022 – 7:30-9:00pm
Location: Municipal Building, 2nd floor (small meeting room)
PRESENT: Matt Arnold, Robert Olsson, Joshua Diamond, Dan Villa, Steve Krisky, Amos
Bloomberg, Dan Castner, Donald Bane, Riley Moeller, Matthew Schuerman, Erik Ferguson
Ex-Officio: Trustee Len Simon
PROCEEDINGS

1. Cleveland Circle (aka Gottwald Circle) design
Croton DPW Foreman Scott Marsh presented design concept for improved traffic
circle/roundabout. It would broaden raised median in center of Cleveland in front of Lutheran
Church, expand the circle currently there and add another pizza slice-shaped no-go area at
eastern end of interchange on Truesdale Drive. Parking lanes along east and west sides of
Cleveland would be preserved but travel lane would be reduced to 12 feet wide in order to
create more orderly and slower traffic flow. Design also calls for ADA-compliant curb cuts and
crosswalks at mouth of Benedict, northern and southern sections of Cleveland and Truesdale. .
Committee requested that designers leave a channel through raised medians on Cleveland and
Truesdale so that crosswalks may extend from one side of street all the way to the other without
and change in height. Marsh said he would check on whether yield sign/striping will replace stop
sign at northern end of Cleveland and agreed to arrange a walk-through meeting with BPC
members before design is finalized. He also agreed to explain plan to church and other
stakeholders.
ACTION ITEM: Matt says he will write letter to Frank Balbi endorsing plan. Matt also will
introduce idea to Garden Club to add plantings to median areas.
2)

Minutes

Approved unanimously
3) Proposed 25 MPH Speed Limit on Croton Streets
Len announced that a public hearing on the proposal will take place Monday at Board of
Trustees meeting, after which the board will consider reducing speed limits on village-owned
roads
4)

Earth Day

Volunteers and materials for the April 29th event
Matt said there’s sign-up sheet out there. Steve said there are a lot of slots open.
ACTION ITEM: Matt said he and Matthew will update accomplishments sheet.

5) Bike lane connector from Old Post Rd S to PVC
Matt submitted proposal requesting the school district consider adding a bike lane to carry
bicyclists from Old Post Rd S through parking lot to rear of PVC. Matt and Josh confirmed that
the school board was considering it. Josh said the idea would be sent to designers for
consideration.
6)

Complete Streets

Discussed Policy Document – revised from Village Manager and pending Village Board
resolution
IN FAVOR: Matt Arnold, Robert Olsson, Joshua Diamond, Dan Villa, Steve Krisky, Amos
Bloomberg, Dan Castner, Donald Bane, Riley Moeller, Matthew Schuerman, Erik Ferguson
AGAINST: Donald Bane
ACTION ITEM: Matt will send Bryan an email indicating our approval

POSTPONED UNTIL NEXT MEETING:
Cleveland Sidewalk Request
Submitted request/proposal for sidewalk on Cleveland Dr (between Gerstein and Hughes)
Bike Route Maps
Developing interactive ‘best-routes’ maps
AOB
Other business, actions, topics for next session, etc.

