Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Monday, November 13, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Associate Village Attorney Taryn Ramey
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini
The following official was absent:

Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

Trustee Gallelli
1.

CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, claims numbered 23242730 through 23242932. The Motion was
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

3.

$284,101.01
$8,098.73
$2,082.78
$58,147.73

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Public Hearing #1
A motion to open the Public Hearing to consider the application from Marco
Ordonez, of M & J Auto Repair Corp, to renew the special permit to operate
a motor vehicle repair garage at 485 S. Riverside Avenue and modify the
special permit to include an existing 6’ x 12’ shed to store various
equipment and supplies was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that in 2020 the Planning Board
recommended that the Village Board not issue a Special Permit, but as a
compromise, the Village Board issued the Special Permit on a renewal basis.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 2

Village Manager Healy stated that, as far as we know, there has not been
any issues with the operation of the business, but a sign was put up that did
not have an approval from the Engineering Department, and they are
currently in the process of getting that approval, in addition, a small shed
was installed on the grounds of the facility that did not have a Building
Permit. Village Manager Healy advised that one of the conditions for the
Board to consider is that the renewal be granted with the condition that they
get an application to the Planning Board within sixty days for the shed.
Trustee Simon stated that there are also separate issues with respect to the
retaining wall which we know is the responsibility of the property owner and
not the applicant, but we want to ensure that the owner of the property gets
the message that it is time to take care of that retaining wall.
Village Manager Healy stated that he understands the concerns regarding
the retaining wall, but there is not much that the applicant can do.
Trustee Nicholson stated that there was a very robust conversation at the
Planning Board meeting regarding the retaining wall and the violations that
the landlord has received and while we definitely want to support this
business as per the Planning Board’s recommendations, the retaining wall is
definitely something that needs to be looked at.
Public Comments
Scott Giordano, 11 Hastings Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he has
no issues or concerns with the applicant, but he lives directly above the
retaining wall and has addressed issues with the Board over the last twentyfour years and not much has been done. Mr. Giordano stated that the
property continues to receive violations and he is hoping that something will
get done before the retaining wall collapses on the businesses below it.
James Picciano, owner of Straddles Gymnastics, 425 S. Riverside Avenue,
Croton on Hudson, stated that Straddles Gymnastics has been a part of
Croton for thirty years and has serviced hundreds of children in the
community. Mr. Picciano stated that in addition to the building being
neglected, there are also safety issues. Mr. Picciano advised that in his letter
to the Village Engineer dated February 16, 2021, he requested that the
location of the entrance to the repair shop be moved because cars speed
.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 3

past Straddle’s access door creating a dangerous situation for parents and
children, he also requested that the gate be locked and that diesel trucks
not be allowed to idle.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Board Comments:
Trustee Simon stated that he agrees with the Planning Board’s approach
that the eighteen months is the correct way to go, but that we make sure
we have a solution in hand before we go forward.
Trustee Nicholson stated that there is a real problem and concern with
respect to the retaining wall and believes we should take a pause and get
some feedback from our Engineer. Trustee Nicholson stated that since this
is somewhat of a landlord/tenant dispute regarding the locking of the fence,
she asked the Village Attorney how the Village Board can enforce this.
Associate Village Attorney Ramey stated that the Village Board, as a
condition of the Special Permit, can add those conditions to the Special
Permit and if the Board would like they can adjourn from making a final
decision until they receive feedback from the Village Engineer.
Village Manager Healy stated that we will have to look at the original
amended Site Plan because these conditions may have been included.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village Engineer, in advance of the
Site Plain renewal, documented the condition of the retaining wall and has
been in touch with the property owner. Village Manager Healy explained that
the property owner has expressed some resistance to fixing the retaining
wall and that is why in the Planning Board’s memo indicated that the Village
Engineer will be issuing a violation to the property owner.
There being no comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote.

.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 4

Public Hearing #2
A motion to open the Public Hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 19 of 2023, to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the Village Code
to update the definition of “Family” was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that as part of our recent updates to our
Zoning Code, the Village Board changed the definition of “Family” so that it
would be compliant with recent court decisions. Village Manager Healy
highlighted the following changes.
#2 the group shares the entire dwelling unit as well as cooking facilities.
#4 members of the household have the same address for purposes of voter
registration, driver licenses, motor vehicle registration and filing of taxes.
To view the Local Law in its entirety you may click on the following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202310/3e31a4788fa6fd3cb57a666820f71ac2893351e4.pdf
There being no comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Public Hearing #3
A motion to open the Public Hearing to consider Local Law No. 20 of 2023 to
amend Chapter 204 of the Village Code, Taxation, to clarify which income tax
year applied when determining income eligibility for the Senior Citizens Tax
Exemption was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that these changes were made at the State
level for those applying for a Senior Tax Exemption. Village Manager Healy
stated that the State determined that some applicants were having difficulty
getting their paperwork together within that time period and this change will
allow the municipality to go back two calendar years to determine eligibility.

.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 5

There being no comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Horowitz. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #230 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the 2023-2024 Enacted State Budget amended the tax law to clarify which
income tax year applies when determining income eligibility for the senior citizens tax
exemption, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson must amend Chapter 204 of the Village Code,
Taxation, to reflect the state’s amendment, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 20 of 2023 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
20 of 2023, which was opened and closed on November 13, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 20 of 2023, amending Chapter 204 of the Village Code,
Taxation, to clarify which income tax year applies when determining income eligibility for
the senior citizens tax exemption, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 19 of
2023.
4.

Review of the Environmental Assessment Form Part II and the Village’s Local
Waterfront Revitalization Program policies by the Village Board to determine
consistency related to the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 19 of
2023, to update the definition of “Family”.

Short Environmental Assessment Form
Part II - Impact Assessment
No, or
small
impact
may
occur

.

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 6

1.

Will the proposed action create a material con flict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the ch aracter or quality of the existing co mmunity?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an i mp act on the en vironmental characteristics that caused
the establishment of a Critical En viron mental Area (CE A)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse chan ge in the existing level of traffic
or affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walk way?

√

6.

√

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to
incorporate reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy
oppo
tunpitiropo
es? sed action impact existing:
7. W
ill trhe
a. public / private water supplies?

√
√

b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the ch aracter or quality of i mportant historic,
archaeological, architectural or aesthetic resources?

√

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse chan ge to natural resources (e. g.,
wetlands, waterbodies, ground water, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to en viron mental resources or hu man health?

√

Village Board Review of Consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program to Determine Consistency to determine consistency related to the
adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 19 of 2023, to update the definition of
“Family”.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Waterfront Advisory Committee only found
policy 1A applicable.

WAC RESPONSE
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore, revitalize, and redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses
Existing planning and zoning documents
should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within the

1A

.

VILLAGE BOARD

Applicable
Yes/No
No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 7

community is consistent with adopted goals
and policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned land
at the Metro North Train Station, including
Village garage and bay area. Encourage
integrated development of Village property
to assure fulfillment of requirements relating
to parking and accessory uses of Metro
North Train Station, while facilitating public
access to bay area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the
municipality to encourage the mutual
cooperation and exchange of information
between governmental agencies involved in
clean-up of the Croton landfill and MetroNorth lagoon in order to develop commercial
use of resources found in the coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and assure
appropriate maintenance and screening to
reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant site
at the intersection of Route 9A and
Municipal
Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent uses
and facilities on or adjacent to coastal
waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power
boats on the Hudson River and Croton River
and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters that
regulate boat traffic such a speed, turbidity,
safety, and mooring and sludge disposal.
Such controls will further increase the
compatibility of power boat use with other
forms of recreation use within the coastal
zone area.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of major ports is not applicable
to
Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the
strengthening of small harbors is not
applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate, except when such development
has special functional requirements or other
characteristics which necessitate its location
in other coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the current

1B

1C

1D

1E

2
2A

3

4

5

5A

.

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 8

service area of existing water and sewer
facilities or in close proximity to areas where
distribution lines currently exist.
The extension of water and sewer
distribution lines beyond areas currently
served should be undertaken cautiously and
with prudent regard for Village water
resources and the preservation of
environmental values in undeveloped areas.
Limit proposed development within those
portions of the coastal zone boundary area,
where traffic impacts such as site distance
and carrying capacity of the roadways are
restricted, particularly along Route 9A,
Albany Post Road and Route 129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development activities
at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into a
development package for applicants and/or
make all local laws available to applicants
proposing development activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall be protected and improved for
conservation, economic, aesthetic,
recreational, and other public uses and
values. Its resources shall be protected
from the threat of pollution, misuse, and
mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality and
degrade or destroy the ecological system of
the Croton River and Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitat and the Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat shall not
be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on
land within, the area of influence in the
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade water
quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be permitted within the area
of influence of the habitat unless best
available technology is used to prevent
adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological elements

5B

5C

6
6A

7

7A

7B

7C

7D

.

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 9

of the Croton River and Bay and Haverstraw
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitats and
shore lands shall be included in any
programs for cleanup of any adjacent toxic
and hazardous waste sites.
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively channeled so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activity, or impact
other locations. Construction activity shall
be timed so that spawning of anadromous
fish species and shellfish will not be
adversely affected.
Such activities must not cause degradation
of water quality or impact identified
significant fish and wildlife habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain or
which cause significant sub lethal or lethal
effect on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and wildlife
resources in coastal areas by increasing
access to existing resources, supplementing
existing stocks, and developing new
resources. Such efforts shall be made in a
manner which ensures the protection of
renewable fish and wildlife resources and
considers other activities dependent on
them.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Villageowned land adjacent to the Metro-North
parking lot, at Croton Point Park and at
Senasqua Park, along the Croton River, and
at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts should be
made to encourage recreational use of the
fish and wildlife resources found in these
areas by increasing the opportunities for
public access and enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment
of the wildlife in the designated significant
fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon
Society Sanctuaries, on other public or
private lands within the Village, where
wildlife habitats are located. Encourage the
recreational use of areas where such
resources are found, as well as the
protection of such resources.

7E

7F

7G
8

9

9A

9B

.

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 10

Further develop commercial finfish, shellfish
and crustacean resources in the coastal
area by encouraging the construction of new
or improvement of existing on-shore
commercial fishing facilities, increasing
marketing of the state's seafood products,
maintaining adequate stocks, and
expanding aquaculture facilities. Such
efforts shall be made in a manner which
ensures the protection of renewable fish and
wildlife resources and considers other
activities dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited in
the coastal area so as to minimize damage
to property and the endangering of human
lives caused by flooding and erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures
shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent damage
to the environment, and promote the public
welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or other
activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil
or results in earth movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs.
Primary dunes will be protected from all
encroachments that could impair their
natural protective capacity
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier to
Croton Bay from activities or development
that would increase erosion of or flooding of
the Point
The construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures shall be undertaken
only if they have a reasonable probability of
controlling erosion for at least thirty years as
demonstrated in design and construction
standards and/or assured maintenance or
replacement programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be
maintained in good condition and private
landowners should be required to restore
and maintain erosion control mechanisms
along their river frontage which are designed
for long term stability.

10

11

11A

12

12A

13

13A

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 11

Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken so
that there will be no measurable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such
activities or development, or at other
locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which supply
beach materials to land adjacent to such
waters and shall be undertaken in a manner
which will not cause an increase in erosion
of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or adjacent
to an erosion hazard area to be able to
function, or existing development; and only
where the public benefits outweigh the long
term monetary and other costs including the
potential for increasing erosion and adverse
effects on natural protective features
Public funds shall be appropriated for the
yearly maintenance of Senasqua Park until
such time that is determined that
expenditure of funds outweighs the cost of
acquiring, constructing and maintaining a
similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural
measures to minimize damage to natural
resources and property from flooding and
erosion. Such measures shall include: (i)
the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the installation
of sand fencing and draining; (iii) the
reshaping of bluffs; and (iv) the floodproofing of buildings or their elevation above
the base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes rising from areas
inland shall be of a non-structural nature,
wherever possible, in consideration of the
visual impact of structural measures. The
retention or planting of vegetative covers will
be preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social and
environmental interests of the state and of
its citizens, proposed major actions in the
coastal area must give full consideration to
those interests, and to the safeguards which
the state has established to protect valuable
coastal resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES

14

15

16

16A

17

17A

18

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 12
Protect, maintain, and increase the level and
types of access to public water-related
recreation resources and facilities so that
these resources and facilities may be fully
utilized in accordance with reasonably
anticipated public recreation needs and the
protection of historic and natural resources.
In providing such access, priority will be
given to public beaches, boating facilities,
fishing areas and waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space along
the Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of
a trail or walkway system. Such systems
should be provided along undeveloped and
underutilized land as well as along
previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that have
specific value for their physical and visual
access to the Hudson River or Croton River
and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public
transportation, when feasible, to areas
within the coastal zone area where water
dependent and water enhanced recreation
activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and Bay at
the Village-owned land south of the Village
parking lots at the Croton-Harmon Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access to
the Croton River waterfront, in its current
undeveloped condition as a pedestrian
walkway.
Access to the publicly owned foreshore and
to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner compatible
with adjoining uses. Such lands shall be
retained in public ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and facilitated
and will be given priority over non-water
related uses along the coast, provided it is
consistent with the preservation and
enhancement of other coastal resources
and take into account demand for such
facilities. In facilitating such activities,
priority shall be given to areas where access
to the recreation opportunities of the coast
can be provided by new or existing public
transportation services and to those areas
where the use of the shore is severely
restricted by existing development.
Boating activities should be encouraged
provided that they do not restrict other
recreational opportunities and are

19

19A

19B

19C

19D
19E

20

21

21A

.

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 13

undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the
shore will provide for water-related
recreation, as a multiple use, whenever such
recreational use is appropriate in light
reasonably anticipated demand for such
activities and the primary purpose of the
development
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, in areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of
statewide significance as identified on the
coastal area map. Impairment shall include:
(i) the irreversible modification of geologic
forms, the destruction or removal of
vegetation, the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic forms,
vegetation or structures are significant to
the scenic quality of an identified resource;
and (ii) the addition of structures which
because of siting or scale will reduce
identified views or which because of scale,
form, or materials will diminish the scenic
quality of an identified resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified as being of statewide significance,
but which contribute to the overall scenic
quality of the coastal area.
Protect local scenic resources by
preventing: (i) the irreversible modification
of geologic forms, the destruction or
removal of vegetation or wetlands, the
destruction, or removal of structures,
whenever the geologic forms, vegetation or
structures are significant to the scenic
quality of an identified resources; and (ii)
the addition of structures which because of
siting scale will reduce identified views or
which because of scale, form, or materials
will diminish the scenic quality of an
identified resource.
Secure the designation of the panoramic
views from Croton Point as a scenic area of
statewide significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and 129
within the Croton boundaries as a scenic
road. Ensure developments on or adjacent
to Route 9 do not impair scenic resources or

22

23

24

25

25A

25B
25C

.

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 14

views of or from the Hudson and Croton
Rivers
Establish and protect identified view-sheds
which provide visual access to the Hudson
River, including but not limited to the views
of the Hudson River from the western
shoreline of the Village, and from Prickly
Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River Landing.
In addition, protect view-sheds to and of the
Croton River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the
protection of agricultural lands is not
applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not damage
significant fish and wildlife and their habitats,
increase shoreline erosion or flooding, or
interfere with the production of hydroelectric
power.
Ice management practices must consider
short and long-term impacts on the Croton
River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of energy resources is not
applicable to Croton.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited to, toxic and hazardous substances,
into coastal waters will conform to state and
national water quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose any
materials in coastal waters until such
materials have been tested by the state for
conformance with water quality standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials shall
be monitored by the state to assure there
will be no discharge or leaching of materials
into coastal waters.
State coastal area policies and purposes of
approved local waterfront revitalization
programs will be considered while reviewing
coastal water classifications and while
modifying water quality standards; however,
those waters already over-burdened with
contaminants will be recognized as being a

25D

26

27

28

28A

29

30

30A

30B

31

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 15

development constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC should
continually monitor water quality in the
Hudson River and Croton Bay which have
already been overburdened with pollutants.
Recommendations for mitigation and
upgrading water quality classifications
cannot be determined without continual
monitoring and testing of the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax base
of these communities
Best Management Practices will be used to
ensure the control of storm water runoff and
combined sewer overflows draining into
coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain
storm water runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing system or
to improve existing storm water runoff
systems to that runoff from such
developments does not adversely impact
coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water
discharge to control flow of pollutants from
street and parking areas, etc. directly in the
rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters from
vessels will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply areas.
There shall be no discharge from moored
structures or marine vessels, due to shape
of cove and lack of tidal flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in
coastal waters will be undertaken in a
manner that meets existing state dredging
permit requirements, and protects significant
fish and wildlife habitats, scenic resources,
natural protective features, important
agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner that
will prevent or at lease minimize spills into
coastal waters; all practicable efforts will be
undertaken to expedite the cleanup of such
discharges; and restitution for damages will
be required when these spills occur.

31A

32

33

33A

33B

34

34A
35

36

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 16

Best Management Practices will be utilized
to minimize the non-point discharge of
excess nutrients, organics and eroded soils
into coastal waters.
Standards and specifications for the control
of non-point source discharge as set forth in
Westchester County's Best Management
Practice Manual or other recognized
reference shall be utilized during
development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops, and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be conserved
and protected, particularly where such
waters constitute the primary or sole source
of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas will
be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreation areas, important agricultural lands
and scenic resources.
Require transporters, producers and storers
of hazardous material to inform the public or
allow public access to records involving the
transport, storage, treatment and disposal of
hazardous materials. This is of particular
concern with respect to rail transport of such
materials, storage of identified materials on
railroad property and uses in the waterfront
area involved in the treatment, storage and
disposal of such materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302,
Emergency Planning and Community Rightto- Know of the 1986 Superfund
Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
planning committee and the Croton Fire
Department shall be notified if hazardous
substances exceed the established
threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to state water quality standards.
Land use or development in the coastal area
will not cause national or state air quality
standards to be violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring
station should be established within the

37

37A

37B

38

39

39A

39B

40

41
41A

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 17

Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the state reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal area
must not cause the generation of significant
amounts of the acid rain precursors: nitrates
and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus service to
the train station, thereby decreasing
dependency on the automobile use and
reduce the generation of acid rain
precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil
fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
development of a monitoring program to
assess rail vehicle engines emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits derived
from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats and
protecting against flood and pollution.

42

43

43A

43B

44
44A

5.

No

No

No

No

No
No

Presentation by Joe Ross of Televate Regarding
Telecommunications Chapter of the Village Code.

Changes

to

the

To view the entire power point presentation, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/ef47c31219100cb4723074e81662b12e4ceecdb4.pdf
To hear the entire presentation, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/903 (00.44.54)
Trustee Simon asked if Televate recommends that we update our Code
before we receive future applications, does Televate have any
recommendations of codes from other communities, does he think TMobile’s tower would be large enough to accommodate three carriers, and
does he recommend small cell technology.
Mr. Ross stated that if Croton received an application today, it would be
subject to the current law and supported updating the Code as soon as
possible, he has not seen neighboring codes, but they have looked at the
.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 18

code provided by the Village Attorney which appears to be much more
comprehensive, they are hoping that this region would use more small cell
technology, but after a brief discussion with Verizon, they did not seem very
positive about small cell technology in high density areas. Mr. Ross stated
that it would be up to T-Mobile to make those decisions as to what are the
best ways to service Croton.
Associate Village Attorney Ramey stated that it is important to update the
code so that the Village has control over the process.
Trustee Nicholson stated that we currently have one developer that has
approached Croton, their business model is that they would build the tower
and then they would lease the tower to various carriers and asked if that is
typical for a developer to do. Trustee Nicholson stated that she is surprised
that communities cannot regulate emissions and asked for a clarification of
the safety of 5G and if there is a guarantee that coverage will be improved if
T-Mobile puts up another tower.
Associate Village Attorney Ramey stated that a municipality cannot directly
regulate emissions, but it can put in the code that the applicant is required
to provide proof of compliance with Federal standards, but a community
cannot regulate those standards.
Mr. Ross stated that there is no difference between 5G and 4G from a health
perspective, it is about the amount of power and frequency that is being
transmitted. Mr. Ross stated that, based on what T-Mobile has proposed,
the service would dramatically improve.
Village Manager Healy stated that the tower at the train station is the
scenario where a developer came in, leased the property from the Village,
and is subletting to other carriers, in the situation on the Municipal Building,
the carrier directly approached the Village and asked to install their tower,
he does not believe a tower developer would approach the Village unless
they know other carriers will come.
Mayor Pugh asked if the Village has any towers on private property, and
from a regional perspective, are more towers erected on private as opposed
to public property.

.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 19

Village Manager Healy stated that both towers in Croton are on public
property.
Mr. Ross stated that generally towers are on private property and
highlighted a few in the area.
Trustee Horowitz asked if any of the carriers have good service in the
Village.
Village Manager Healy stated that every carrier has some areas where the
service could be considered good, but there is no carrier currently that is
good throughout the Village.
6.

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL: none

7.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a.

Statement of Antisemitism from Members of the Croton Clergy
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/5044261b6a6e3fb44147f2dc7ac2ac5d48dc2350.pdf
On motion by Trustee Horowitz and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson agreed to add
the Village of Croton to the joint statement. Motion was approved
with a 4-0 vote.
Statement of Antisemitism
Everyone in Croton has the right to attend their chosen places of
worship in freedom and safety. We are sad and angry to say that
since the summer, many Jewish communities in the area have
experienced harassment and bigotry. The Croton clergy and Village
Board have been in conversation with Rabbi Jaech and Temple Israel
of Northern Westchester to ensure they can worship safely. Religious
harassment is against the right of religious freedom enshrined in our
laws and constitution. This bigotry and harassment is heinous and
wrong. In the face of this heinous harassment, Rabbi Jaech’s
message has been consistent - let there be peace, continue to
promote love, and do not lose your humanity. We wish all could live
these words, but there are some who hold anger and want violence,

.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 20

especially against our Jewish siblings. We, members of the Village
Trustees and clergy of the Episcopal, Lutheran, Methodist Churches
and Unitarian Universalist Congregation in Croton, side with and
support our Jewish siblings at Temple Israel of Northern Westchester
and Rabbi Jaech in the face of this harassment. We unequivocally
denounce the alarming rise in hate crimes- anti-Jewish, anti-Muslim,
and harassment against individual believers, private businesses, and
houses of faith - which have been increasing across New York State.
This harassment against Jewish and Muslim communities has
increased disturbingly over the last several years, and most
particularly and viciously since the War in Israel and Gaza began on
October 7th. In response to the rapid spike in hate crimes, honoring
our varied religious and civic roles, we strongly affirm a vision of New
York and Croton with safety, freedom and opportunity for all. We
pledge to do our part to work for such an inclusive community. We
condemn any hatred that leads to Anti-Semitism or Islamophobia
and call on our neighbors to speak up in support of our Muslim and
Jewish neighbors here in Croton. This is a time of support. We ask
that if you hear someone making threats against area synagogues,
rabbis, or the Jewish community to take it seriously and confront it
and or report it. We ask that if you hear someone making threats
against area mosques, imams, or the Muslim community to take it
seriously and confront it and or report it. We can work in community
and solidarity for a safe, inclusive Croton, together. Honoring the
best in our civic life, Croton can and should be a place where all can
come and feel free, be who they are, and worship in peace. In this
time of increasing hate crimes, we are committed to working for a
Croton of freedom, safety and justice.
Rev. Dr. Justin Johnson, Our Saviour Lutheran Church
The Rev. Jennifer M. Owen, Rector, St. Augustine’s Episcopal Church
Rev. Daniel Lawlor, Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Hudson
Valley
Rev. Bette Sohm, Asbury United Methodist Church
Mayor and Board of Trustees, Village of Croton on Hudson
.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 21

b.

Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated November 9, 2023,
to the Board of Trustees regarding the property at 1 Half Moon Bay
Drive.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/17d9701315bd51ede5cc269d661c3bb7a63c60bf.pdf
c. Email from the New York State Office of Cannabis Management dated
November 6, 2023, approving the Village’s request for a one-time
30-day extension to provide a municipality’s opinion on the
notification for a dispensary to be located at 440 South Riverside
Avenue. The new deadline is December 3, 2023, and as part of the
backup, the application has submitted a traffic survey.
Letter from NYS Office of Cannabis Management:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/05c3b7c4b45c347ae98ab61b89d5faa94f7db76f.pdf
Attorney gave an overview of the traffic study.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/6d06122520ae08e4f4e58e025267217e2bec2f5d.pdf
Trustee Nicholson asked for a clarification of the location of the
dispensary, would they be willing to share their application once it
has been filed and asked about their security plan and would it
include an armed guard.
Mr. Schriever advised that the space they are considering is where
the laundromat facility was located, once the application is filed, they
will share whatever the applicant is allowed to share, with respect to
security, they will have to comply with all the requirements listed in
Section 123.1 of the Cannabis Board Regulations. https://harrissliwoski.com/cannalawblog/new-yorks-cannabis-retail-dispensaryregulations-part-2-security-and-surveillance/, while it is not required
to have an armed guard, if it is the Village’s preference, it is
something they can discuss with the Planning Board.
Trustee Simon asked if showcase locations would become
permanent, is there a standard duration for a showcase, and asked if
hours of operation are subject to our Zoning Codes.

.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 22

Mr. Schriever stated that the State’s plan is to carry on with the
showcase model to alleviate some of the concerns that were
addressed with respect to not having locations in surrounding
communities, the rules of a showcase are very flexible, and it could
be a one-time event, the Village cannot limit a dispensary to less
than seventy hours per week and the hours will be discussed at the
Planning Board level.
Village Manager Healy explained that because the dispensary is
located in a C2 District outside the Gateway Area, retail stores
require a Special Permit to be issued by the Village Board, and the
applicant would then go through the Special Permit process.
To hear the full discussion, you may log onto the Village’s website.
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/903 (01.41.20).
d.

Letter from Cory D. Randolph, Deputy Director of Grant Operations
at the U.S. Department of Justice, regarding the Village’s request for
funding under the 2023 COPS Hiring Program.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/22b7d5872adcaf0fb13213491cdbabaf331db2fc.pdf
Trustee Simon stated that the Village will be going over the
application with Mr. Randoph, it is quite possible that Croton’s low
crime rate kept us from getting this grant, given the limited amount
of funding, it may have gone to areas with higher crime rates.

e.

8.

Email from John Munson, President/Secretary of the Croton Fire
Council,
regarding membership changes in the Croton Fire
Department.
PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
Statement of Antisemitism should have come out sooner, the Village
should never have approved Cannabis dispensaries in Croton, the
Shoprite shopping center is a terrible location in terms of traffic, and is
concerned that people will be smoking in the parking lot, and objected to
kids getting $15.00 per hour.

.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 23

Signe Bergstrom, 228 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
she was happy to hear during Televate’s presentation the importance of
protecting our community and updating our code, there is a tremendous
amount of information out there, but the goal is to protect the residents,
as well as improving our coverage.
Petra Vatne, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, addressed her concerns
regarding radiation that comes from cellular towers and stressed that 5G
is not safe and asked the Board to look at this critically.
Tony Granger, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes
that 5G is a silent killer and is the tobacco and asbestos of our day and
believes we are being railroaded, this is a health issue and needs to be
research and referred everyone to presentation by “Generation Zapped”.
Mr. Granger asked the Board to oppose any attempt to convert the 1 Half
Moon Bay property into a residential/multi-unit housing development.
Renee Curci, 233 Hessian Hills, Croton on Hudson, stated that she lives
about three hundred feet from where one of the towers are being
considered, she agrees with the safety issues, and noted that Mr. Ross
very often in his talk, mentioned how beautiful our Village is, and it is
important to keep that in mind when considering putting a tower within
that range of residents, there are so many other concerns other than just
visual and was happy to hear that the Village will look into working with a
firm that specializes in this field.
WRITTEN COMMENTS:
Email from Jessica Seikovksy dated November 12, 2023, stating that she
believes the marijuana dispensary would be a great addition to the
community.
Email from Jesse Mainiero, dated November 13, 2023, stated that a
Cannabis store is a perfect addition to our community, it will not only
increase tax revenue but will promote our town’s personality and
uniqueness.
9.

.

On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board
of Trustees approved entering into an Executive Session for the purpose of

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 24

discussing a personnel matter involving a particular person.
approved with a 4-0 vote. (9:35pn)

Motion was

On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board
of Trustees approved returning to their Regular Session.
Motion was
approved with a 4-0 vote. (9:47pm)
The following resolution was adopted following the Executive Session.
Resolution #229-2023 – Special Permit for M & J Repair Auto Repair
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote:
WHEREAS the special permit for M & J Auto Repair Corp. to operate a motor vehicle
repair garage at 485 S. Riverside Avenue is set to expire on November 15, 2023, and
WHEREAS the Village Board wishes to further investigate the concerns raised at the
public hearing for the special permit renewal held on November 13, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby extends the
special permit issued on November 16, 2020, for a period of 30 days, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the new expiration date for the special permit shall be
December 15, 2023.
10.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #231 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS, Chapter 197-15 of the Village Code, Snow and Ice on Sidewalks, provides for
the property owner or lessee to keep the adjoining sidewalk free from snow and ice,
subject to certain parameters specified in the law; and
WHEREAS, Chapter 197-15, subsection D, provides for the Village to cause the snow and
ice to be removed from the sidewalk if not done by the homeowner within the prescribed
12-hour period; and
.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 25

WHEREAS, Chapter 197-15, subsection E, provides for the Village to charge the property
owner for the cost of the removal of the snow and ice; and
WHEREAS, last year, the Village contracted with La Teja Contractors & Landscaping, Inc.
to perform this work; and
WHEREAS, La Teja has presented the following rates for snow removal services for the
2023-2024 winter season: $85/hour for snow shoveling, $100/hour for snow blowing,
$165/hour for using a skid steer, and $50/bag for use of calcium chloride,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with La Teja Contractors & Landscaping, Inc. for snow removal
services for the 2023-2024 winter season.
Resolution #232 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that upon the recommendation of the Village
Manager, the Board of Trustees hereby approves a Stipulation of Agreement dated
November 2, 2023, between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and Local 456,
International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
Resolution #233 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village’s Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Department provides basic life
support (BLS) ambulance service, but does not offer advanced life support ambulance
service (ALS), and
WHEREAS the Ossining Volunteer Ambulance Corps (OVAC) has been providing ALS
service to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson since 1996, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, the Village of Briarcliff Manor, and OVAC
have entered into an agreement to form a Tri-Community FLYCAR system operating as
OVAC ALSFR (Advanced Life Support First Response) dated May 2020, and
.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 26

WHEREAS the Villages of Briarcliff Manor and Croton-on-Hudson and OVAC previously
agreed that each municipality would begin a six-month pilot program for ALS/BLS bundle
billing effective June 1, 2023, and
WHEREAS as additional data is needed, an Addendum has been proposed to this
agreement to extend the pilot an additional six (6) months starting from December 1,
2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Board of Trustees hereby approves the FLYCAR
Agreement Addendum and authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Agreement
Addendum and any other documentation as may be required to facilitate the availability
of this service in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to transfer
$18,736 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following account:
A4540.4020. – Ambulance – Fly Car/Paid EMT: $18,736
Resolution 234 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is legally required to follow the federally
mandated minimum wage for its employees which is currently set at $7.25 per
hour, and
WHEREAS New York State has adopted a minimum wage rate schedule for various parts
of the state, and
WHEREAS although the Village is exempt from these schedules, it recognizes the need to
set a higher minimum rate standard than the federal guidelines, and
WHEREAS the state minimum wage is scheduled to increase on January 1, 2024, to $16
per hour for New York City and the counties of Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester, and to
$15 per hour for the rest of the state, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has decided that it would follow the schedule set
for the remainder of New York State, and
.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 27

WHEREAS this minimum wage policy as adopted would apply to all seasonal part-time
employees of the Village, including, but not limited to, camp counselors, lifeguards, gate
attendants and laborers,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to implement a
minimum wage of $15 per hour as of January 1, 2024, for all seasonal part-time
employees of the Village.
Resolution 235 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Section 2019-a of the Uniform Justice Court Act requires that Village Justices
annually provide their court records and dockets to be audited, and
WHEREAS O’Connor Davies, LLP, of Harrison, New York, conducted an independent audit
of the Justice Court of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for the fiscal year ending May 31,
2023, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a copy of the audit report,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that in accordance with Section 2019-a of the
Uniform Justice Court Act, the Village Board of Trustees acknowledges that the required
audit was conducted, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Clerk is hereby authorized to forward a copy
of the annual report and a copy of this resolution to the New York State Office of Court
Administration.
Resolution 236 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has settled a Small Claim Assessment Review (SCAR) case
resulting from Grievance Day, and

.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 28

WHEREAS the attached memo provided by the Village Assessor states that two properties
have been granted an assessment reduction and should receive a tax refund providing
their taxes are paid in full, and
WHEREAS one such property is located at 11 Newton Court, known as 67.10-2-4.27 on
the Village Tax Maps, and
WHEREAS the tax refund was calculated using the current tax rate of $278.435 per
$1,000 of assessed value, and
WHEREAS the total amount to be refunded for the property is $363.76,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees authorizes the
Village Treasurer to issue a tax refund to the property owner as outlined in the attached
memo from the Village Assessor.
Resolution 237 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has settled a Small Claim Assessment Review (SCAR) case
resulting from Grievance Day, and
WHEREAS the attached memo provided by the Village Assessor states that two properties
have been granted an assessment reduction and should receive a tax refund providing
their taxes are paid in full, and
WHEREAS one such property is located at 34 Lounsbury Road, known as 67.20-2-38 on
the Village Tax Maps, and
WHEREAS the tax refund was calculated using the current tax rate of $278.435 per
$1,000 of assessed value, and
WHEREAS the total amount to be refunded for the property is $533.76,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees authorizes the
Village Treasurer to issue a tax refund to the property owner as outlined in the attached
memo from the Village Assessor.
11. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 29

Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he opposes the oneparty system, concerned about the high rate of crime throughout the country,
expressed his concern over the disappearance of thousands of children who came
through our border illegally, objects to the ICLEI (International Council for Local
Environmental Initiatives) policies and the Village’s membership in that
organization, and does not want to see transit housing on every available property
in Croton.
Petra Vatne, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, stated that ICLEI was created as a
non-governmental spin-off by the United Nations in 1990 which was intended to
influence and change local government policies related to environmental issues.
Doug Simmons, 1 Finney Farm Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he would like
to generate some enthusiasm for the creation of a public pocket park at the Katz
Development and while he has seen some plans that show an area with benches
and plantings he has not heard much about the plans and would like to see
something in that space for the community.
12. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on October
30, 2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Horowitz and approved with a 4-0 vote.
13.

REPORTS
Trustee Nicholson advised that the Arts and Humanities Committee put together an
incredible afternoon of Jazz and thanked Trustee Horowitz for all her efforts in
putting together a wonderful afternoon, the Croton All Business Meeting was held
this morning and commended Trustee Simon for working very diligently in getting
our business community together.
Trustee Simon stated that twenty-eight businesses attended the Croton All
Business Meeting this morning where they spent a lot of time working on
marketing strategies, on October 31 st he attended a Housing Summit that was
moderated by Pace University and organized by Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg
and Assemblyman Chris Burdick, he sat in on a Webinar that Riverkeeper and
Congressman Pat Ryan organized regarding changes to the Hudson River Anchor
rules, participated in our Veterans activities at the Yacht Club and our ceremony at
Veterans Corners, the Planning Board and Waterfront Advisory Committee met and

.

Village Board of Trustees
November 13, 2023
Page 30

are assisting the Board with our ADU recommendations, met with our Grant writers
regarding putting together a grant for sidewalks, Thursday evening he attended
the Westchester Municipal Officials Association meeting where the Westchester
County Human Resources Commissioner spoke on rules and regulations for
employment and congratulated Mayor Pugh and Trustee Nicholson on their reelection and welcomed new Trustee Cara Politi.
Trustee Horowitz advised that the Diversity and Inclusion Commission are working
on a new Mission Statement which will include advising and assisting the Village in
implementing its recently adopted statement, the Food Scrap Composting Program
is now open to the general public, the Conservation Advisory Council continues to
make progress on its Repair Café, first event will be held on December 9 th in the
Community
Room,
for
more
information
you
may
log
onto
the
following:https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/conservation-advisory-council/
events/70986, the Jazz concert was a huge success and thanked everyone for all
their help in putting this together, encouraged everyone to see the High School
performance of Mama Mia, and the Croton Library is hosting a Bake and Book sale
on Saturday from 10am-3pm.
Mayor Pugh congratulated Trustee Nicholson on her election and also welcomed
new Trustee Cara Politi. Mayor Pugh also thanked the community for supporting
the LOSAP program for our volunteer firefighters, thanked the Croton Yacht Club
for hosting the luncheon for our Veterans and the Town of Cortlandt for organizing
the Veterans program this year, on Friday, November 17 th a Covid 19 clinic will be
held at the municipal building, and a Blood Drive will be held next Saturday.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Nicholson. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 10:30pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

.

