APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, June 27, 2023
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), C. Sarcone (259), M. Feminella (162), D. Vlad (318), B. Powers
(474), W. Skiba (267), K. Russell (576), P. Dinkler (150)
EXCUSED: J. Karpoff, C. Colombo, J. Streany, G. Tucci, T. Kaplan
Department Members: J. Delaney (350)
Others in Attendance: Village Manage B. Healy, Mayor B. Pugh, Trustee L. Simon
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Chief Munson at 19:04, this evening’s meeting in memory of Lay Chaplain Judy
Anderson whom passed away on 6/26/23.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Mayor Pugh reports the Village Board approved
sending LOSAP benefit change referendum to a vote this November. Trustee L. Simon reports
recent changes made to outside fire code in the village.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion C. Sarcone/2nd K. Russell to approve May 2023 Council Minutes – CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
• Application for Active Membership with Washington Engine Company received from
Grady Stevenson. Motion D. Vlad/2nd W. Skiba to approve pending favorable background
check – CARRIED.
• Letter received from Fire Patrol indicating Dan Andreescu was removed from Company
Roles in Good Standing. Motion K. Russell/2nd W. Skiba to approve - CARRIED.
• Application for Mutual Aid Membership with Columbian Hook & Ladder Company
received from Zachary Spieler – tabled due to conflicting information.
• Letter from Chemical Engine reporting David Altamura resigned as Captain and as Active
Member and went to Social Member status only. Motion K. Russell/2nd W. Skiba to approve
– CARRIED. Chemical Engine also reports Chris Sarcone is Acting Captain.
Reports of the Chiefs
J. Munson (2081)









Most repairs have been caught up on the fleet.
Contracts signed for new Marine 12.
Ossining Parade Friday 8/4. Inspection 9/16.
Ongoing work at Chemical Engine Bay is expected to continue for a few week.
Thanks to everyone for recent responses and participations.
In-House Officer Class starting soon.
Work continue to migrate to new records management system (RMS).
Most of the work for the Verizon WiFi has been completed at all three Firehouses.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, June 27, 2023
Reports of Committees
By-Laws – By-Law proposal from Washington Engine for Article 2.0 discussed. Motion M.
Feminella/2nd K. Russell to await explanation from WECO on intent of By-Law - CARRIED.
Fire Fair – B. Powers mentioned we are fast approaching time of year for Fire Fair and reports
W. Vlad interested in assisting. J. Munson added him to committee chairpersons.
Special Order of Business:
None
Unfinished Business:
None
New Business:
Discussion regarding resignation of D. Altamura from Active Member/Captain status.
J. Munson requested check for caterer deposit for Inspection. P. Dinkler will handle.
Treasurer’s Report: Balance of $35,648.90. Motion to accept report from M. Feminella/2nd K.
Russell - CARRIED.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad /2nd W. Skiba – CARRIED. M eeting Adjourned at 20:03.

Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 7/ 30/ 23.

