BPC - November 2023 Meeting minutes
Croton-on-Hudson Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee
November 2023 Meeting Minutes
November 15, 2023
Attendees:
Present: Matt Arnold, Matthew Schuerman, Erik Ferguson, Robert Olsson, Barry Scherer, Steven Krisky
Ex Officio: Mayor Brian Pugh, Len Simon (Trustee)
Guest: Scott Marsh (DPW)
Minutes
1) October minutes unanimously approved
2) Meeting Logistics:
●
●

Moving to third Thursdays of each month (after November)
Group consensus to cancel December (12/21) meeting; next meeting to be held in
January

3) DPW Updates:
●

●

Scott Marsh (DPW) provided updates:
● Gotwald Circle – Curb and sidewalk replacement in area of Truesdale to
Cleveland. Work started on Monday 11/13. Expect to complete this phase in
2-3 weeks.
● Varied sidewalk width in front of church will be modified to be 5 ft. wide
consistently. Amenity strip will be addressed with pavers (being
salvaged from existing island).
● Installing the pedestrian ramps at this phase as well.
● In Spring, paving and new island phase to begin. Finalizing plan and sourcing
materials (e.g., granite for island curbing, etc.)
● Scott to rejoin us in January for updates on final plan ahead of spring ground
breaking. Cleveland paving likely to begin in May with hopeful completion by
mid-Summer 2024.
Sidewalk violations – 50/50 program no longer in effect. Enforcement amnesty phased
out. Program unlikely to return. Village/DPW to focus on public infrastructure and
private owners expected to take responsibility for their properties. Sidewalk share
program addressed 47 locations last year (using in-house DPW)

4) Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP) Grant
●

Village has engaged grant writer to assist with the application, which is due 1/3; pre-app
due at end of November (intent)
● Target: Cleveland “Corridor”. [Five Corners focus considered more vehicular, so
de-prioritizing in favor of pedestrian and cycling improvements].
● Expanding focus to address sidewalk network gaps throughout the Village.
● Min grant amount = $500K (with 20% required match contribution by Village).

●
●
●

●

Referencing Master Plan – “Eliminating Gaps in Sidewalk Network” section and
areas ID on interactive map.
Issue support letters – BPC and BOE. Library to endorse as well.
Matthew S.: Include the Five Corners improvements mentioned in the Master
Plan (e.g., crosswalk placement, etc.). Is it worth considering the “Dummy Light”
and funding dimensions of the potential solutions? Consensus on solution for
Dummy Light not yet in reach.
Other places for inclusion: safe streets design at Grand and OPRN (shortening
cross walk distance, etc.).

Action: Issue letter of support - grant writers providing template to Len who will pass on to Matt so we
can address in advance of the 11/28 initial submission deadline.
5) Other Business
●

●

Project Mover [update from Len]: Ossining bike share program expected to be
operational by June 2024. Next step: discussions on how to implement satellite program
in Croton by mid 2025.
CAC Repair Café involvement (Dec 9th)

Flier for event shared w/ volunteers (Robert, Erik, Riley); Orientation meeting planned for
week of 11/27

