WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, September 6th, 2023 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT  Ann Gallelli, Chairperson
         Stuart Greenbaum
         Steve Krisky
         Len Simon
         Leo Wiegman (via speakerphone)

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O'Connor, P.E. Village Engineer

1) CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of September 6th, 2023 to order at 4:30 p.m.

   a) REFERRALS
      Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
      Consistency review for Ameriland Brook LLC to add a three-story mixed-use building next
      to the existing one-story commercial building located at 352 South Riverside Avenue

The WAC members discussed the application and clarified that the proposal is for a new, three-story mixed-use building that will contain five two-bedroom apartments and one commercial space.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of consistency.

MOTION: Stuart Greenbaum made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Len Simon and the motion carried by a vote of 5 – 0.

   3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Stuart Greenbaum made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of August 23, 2023, seconded by Len Simon, and the motion carried, 4-0 with Steve Krisky abstaining as he was absent for the August 23rd meeting.

   4. ADJOURNMENT:

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:57 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

***Approved, as amended on October 24th, 2023 by a vote of 5-0***

Tel: 914-271-4783          www.crotononhudson-ny.gov          Fax: 914-271-3790

---

[Page 2 - Memorandum]

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman: ANN GALLELLI
Members: STUART GREENBAUM, STEVE KRISKY, LEN SIMON, LEO WEIGMAN
Attorney: LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer: DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary: KAREN STAPLETON

TO:     Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM:   Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:     Referral from Village Board for LWRP Consistency Review for Ameriland Brook LLC to
        add a three-story mixed-use building next to the existing one-story commercial
        building located at 352 South Riverside Avenue

DATE:   September 7th, 2023

On September 6th, 2023, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) a referral from the Village Board listed above. Based on the Committee's review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies are relevant:

POLICY 1: Restore, revitalize and redevelop deteriorated and underutilized waterfront areas for commercial, industrial, cultural, recreational and other compatible uses.

The proposed building is an infill type of development in the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway area.

POLICY 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and facilities essential to such development are adequate, except when such development has special functional requirements or other characteristics which necessitate its location in other coastal areas.

POLICY 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas where distribution lines currently exist.

Public services are available such as: water service, sanitary sewer service, storm water system, natural gas, electric service, telemcommunication service, solid waste and recycling pickup, as well as bus and train service.

POLICY 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer overflows shall be effectively channeled so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants from polluting surface and ground water and impact the significant fish and wildlife habitats.

Tel: 914-271-4783          www.crotononhudson-ny.gov          Fax: 914-271-3790

[Page 3]

POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth movement.

POLICY 25: Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made resources which are not identified as being of statewide significance, but which contribute to the overall scenic quality of the coastal area.

Removing street trees from Clinton Street could affect the scenic quality of the area.

POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.

33A: Encourage new developments to retain stormwater runoff on site so as to not increase flows within the existing system or to improve existing stormwater runoff systems to that runoff from such developments does not adversely impact coastal waters.

Stormwater from the proposed new building will go to proposed seepage pits in the parking lot with an overflow pipe connected to an existing Village stormwater system on Clinton Street.

33B: Improve existing Village stormwater discharge to control flow of pollutants from street and parking areas, etc. directly in the rivers.

37: Best Management Practices will be utilized to minimize the non-point discharge of excess nutrients, organics and eroded soils into coastal waters.

37A: Standards and specifications for the control of non-point source discharge as set forth in Westchester County's Best Management Practice Manual or other recognized reference shall be utilized during development of any site.

The proposed seepage pits will treat the stormwater discharge by infiltrating storm water into the soil. This will minimize the discharge of nutriants and other pollutants into the coastal waters.

The WAC believes that the proposed three-story mixed-use building next to the existing one-story commercial building located at 352 South Riverside Avenue will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards.

The proposed removal of four street trees on Clinton Street needs to be reviewed carefully to ensure the proposed development is consistent with Policy 25.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783          www.crotononhudson-ny.gov          Fax: 914-271-3790
