APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, July 25, 2023
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), C. Colombo (133), J. Streany (275), D. Vlad (318), J. Delaney
(350), W. Skiba (267), T. Kaplan (501), A. Decker (612), P. Dinkler (150)
EXCUSED: J. Karpoff, C. Sarcone, M. Feminella, J. Ferguson, B. Powers, K. Goldstein, G. Tucci
Department Members: E. Conti (137)
Others in Attendance: Trustee L. Simon
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Chief Munson at 19:03.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Trustee L. Simon reports the annual Run for Hunger
will be on 10/15, Octoberfest will be 10/7 and progress being made on numerous multiple
family buildings in the village, equaling over 100 new apartments. A brief discussion followed.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Tabled, as these Minutes have not been distributed prior to tonight’s meeting.
Bills and Communications:
• Letter from Washington Engine proposing a change to Article 2.1 of the By-Laws, tabled
to Committees.
• Application for Active Membership with Columbian Hook & Ladder received from Zachary
Spieler. Motion D. Vlad/2nd J. Delaney to approve pending favorable background check –
CARRIED.
• Application for PAF Membership with Washington Engne Company received from Preston
Hagen. Motion J. Streany/2nd J. Delaney to approve pending favorable background check –
CARRIED.
• Application for Active Membership with Harmon Engine Company received from Anthony
Alfano. Motion J. Delaney/2nd J. Streany to approve pending favorable background check –
CARRIED.
• Excuses from J. Karpoff, C. Sarcone, J. Ferguson, M. Feminella, B. Powers, K. Goldstein,
G. Tucci received. Motion C. Colombo/2nd D. Vlad to accept – CARRIED.
Reports of the Chiefs
J. Munson (2081)
 Engine 119 & Tanker 10 had air leaks repaired, again. Mechanic suggest dehumidifier
for apparatus bay to reduce humidity in air that is getting into air systems. All other
apparatus in good shape.
 Ossining Parade Friday 8/4. Inspection 9/16.
 Ongoing work at Chemical Engine Bay is expected to continue for a few more months.
Discussion followed about storage of Engine 118.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, July 25, 2023
 Planned work for Ladder Company room on the agenda for DPW, members asked to be
patient as DPW is busy with other jobs.
 Work is being planned for ramp and a parking area at Washington Engine.
 Awaiting a date to discuss planned addition to Harmon Firehouse with Village.
 Thanks to everyone for recent responses, especially at 7/5 structure fire and 7/15 fatal
motorcycle accident.
 Work in progress migrating to new records management system (RMS), a brand “ESO.”
 New TV for training has been installed in Big Room at Harmon Firehouse.
 All of the work for the Verizon WiFi has been completed at all three Firehouses.
 Reminder to all – if someone calls the firehouse for an emergency get the location and
nature of incident, don’t tell them to just hang up and call 911. This is an unsafe
practice.
 Contracts signed for new Marine 12.
 Working with Ladder Company on getting specs ready to go out to bid on new
apparatus.
C. Colombo (2083)
 Appreciates everyone’s ongoing efforts responding to alarms, work details, training, etc.
 House repair issues seem to be caught up, has a couple of minor things to ask DPW to
look into. D. Vlad reports roof leak into Patrol Room, J. Streany reports ongoing leaks in
WECO roof.
Reports of Committees
By-Laws – J. Streany discussed proposal from WECO for change to Chief Officer term of office,
citing numerous ongoing projects that should remain under current slate of Chiefs. Motion J.
Delaney/2nd J. Streany to send to By-Law Committee for proper wording – CARRIED.
Fund Drive – T. Dinkler reports issue that has caused delay of reminder notices, which will go
out soon.
Fire Fair – T. Kaplan reports Fire Fair will be on Sunday 10/8. Chief Munson asked T. Kaplan to
take lead and to loop in W. Vlad, T. Dinkler and representative from each Company.
Special Order of Business:
None
Unfinished Business:
None
New Business:
T. Kaplan asked if there is a way for new records management to better assist companies and
be easier to use, as well as offered to assist with it. Chief Munson advised that he is still
unfamiliar with new RMS but will share info as he learns it with others interested in the interest
of getting records done more efficiently.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, July 25, 2023
J. Munson asked for a $100 check to participate in Montrose FD Softball Tournament for other
Fire Departments. Motion D. Vlad/2nd T. Kaplan to approve – CARRIED.
J. Delaney reports E120 is missing gasoline fuel key. P. Dinkler reports the key is on E118 but
not working. J. Munson will have DPW get new keys for both E118 & E120.
D. Vlad asked status of access to fuel pumps – J. Munson reports they are open as of this
evening.
Treasurer’s Report: Balance of $92,749.70 with recent receipt of 2% funds which have to be
distributed to the companies.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad /2nd J. Delaney – CARRIED. M eeting Adjourned at 20:23.

Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 7/ 26/ 23.

