Croton-on-Hudson Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee
May 2023 Meeting

Date: May 25, 2023 – 7:30-9:00pm
Location: Municipal Building, 2nd floor (small meeting room)
PRESENT: Matt Arnold, Robert Olsson, Dan Villa, Steve Krisky, Amos Bloomberg, Matthew
Schuerman, Erik Ferguson

Ex-Officio: Trustee Len Simon


PROCEEDINGS

1)   Minutes
       Approved unanimously



2) DPW Debrief / Updates


       Prior to meeting, Committee met with DPW (Frank Balbi and Scott Marsh) for an on-site
       review of plans for Gottwald Circle/Cleveland area. In Committee, debriefed on plans –
       street width, traffic island placement, crosswalk placement, traffic calming measures and
       signage.


       Discussed proposed sidewalk for Cleveland/Gerstein area. Next steps: Village
       Engineering review on placement (e.g., east or west side of street).


       Discussed pending sidewalk installation at SRA/CPA. Proposed extension (adjacent to
       Straddles) will accommodate local Harmon employees who park in the area (as
       endorsed by local businesses) – and help connect to Van Cortlandt historic area as they
       plan to expand their community engagement beyond the Blaze.



3) Complete Streets and 25mph Village Limit


       Both measures were ratified at the April 24th Board of Trustees meeting.


4)   Summerfest
       Secured table for the event – and prepared materials (e.g., mission statement,
       accomplishments, SDC stickers, etc.)


       ACTION ITEM: Matt will send email soliciting volunteers for table duty
5) Project MOVER
       Len provided update on Ossining’s Project MOVER program – eBike program made
       possible through award of recent NYSERDA grant (received in November 2022).
       Expecting to be operational within a year. Croton – along with Tarrytown and Dobbs
       Ferry – are designated satellite municipalities (aka EMI – Electric Mobility Incubators).
       Program will consist of three projects: 1) traditional bike share/docking; 2) eBike lending
       ‘library’; 3) Lease-to-own program.


       Croton will need to design and manage its own ‘satellite’ program



6) Interactive Bike Routes Map(s)
       Dan has created initial set of routes. Next steps to be discussed offline in advance of
       next Committee meeting.
