WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, October 24th, 2023 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT  Ann Galelli, Chairperson
         Stuart Greenbaum
         Steve Krisky
         Len Simon
         Leo Wiegman
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O'Connor, P.E. Village Engineer

1) CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of October 24, 2023 to order at 4:33 pm.

2) REFERRALS
   a) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
      Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 19 of 2023.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were no changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes.

Stuart Greenbaum stated that he thought that the wording on the Local Law Introductory No. 19 of 2023 should be clearer and believes that the word "All" should be added before "The following criteria shall be present in determining the functional equivalent of a traditional family." The other WAC members agreed with Stuart Greenbaum's suggestion.

WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo attached.

Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of consistency.

MOTION: Stuart Greenbaum made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Len Simon, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5–0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Leo Weigman made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of September 6th, 2023, as amended, seconded by Stuart Greenbaum, and the motion carried by a vote of 5–0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:38p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

Tel: 914-271-4783          www.crotononhudson-ny.gov          Fax: 914-271-3790

---

[Page 2 - Memorandum]

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman: ANN GALLELLI
Members: STUART GREENBAUM, STEVE KRISKY, LEN SIMON, LEO WEIGMAN
Attorney: LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer: DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary: KAREN STAPLETON

TO:     Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM:   Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:     Referral from Village Board for LWRP Consistency Review regarding Local Law
        Introductory 19 of 2023 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning

DATE:   October 26, 2023

On October 24th, 2023, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) a referral from the Village Board listed above. Based on the Committee's review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was all in favor.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and Short Environmental Assessment Form and no changes were noted.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policy was relevant:

POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and policies.

The committee also recommends the following revision to the definition to make it clear that all five criteria apply and must be satisfied.

FAMILY
One or more persons living together ina single dwelling unit as a traditional family or the functional equivalent of a traditional family. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that five or more persons living together in a single dwelling unit, who are not related by blood, adoption or marriage, do not constutute the functional equivalent of a traditional family. ALL OF the following criteria shall be present in determining the functional equivalent of a traditional family;

1. The group is permanent and stable, and not transient or temporary in nature.
2. The group shares the entire dwelling unit, including cooking facilities.
3. The group shares expenses for rent, utilities or other household expenses.
4. Members of the household have the same address for purposes of voter's registration, driver's license, motor vehicle registration, and filing of taxes.
5. Any other factor reasonably related to whether the group is the functional equivalent of a family. A dwelling unit in which various occupants act as separate roomers may not be deemed to be occupied by the functional equivalent of a traditional family.

The WAC believes that the proposed revisions to the zoning code will not have any potentially significant adverse impacts on coastal resources and is consistent with the LWRP policy standards.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783          www.crotononhudson-ny.gov          Fax: 914-271-3790
