APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, May 30, 2023
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), C. Colombo (133), C. Sarcone (259), J. Streany (275), D. Vlad
(318), B. Powers (474), W. Skiba (267), T. Kaplan (501), G. Tucci (284), A. Decker (612)
EXCUSED: J. Karpoff, M. Feminella
Department Members: J. Delaney (350), K. Tucci (588)
Others in Attendance: Trustee L. Simon
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Chief Munson at 19:00.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Trustee Simon thanked Department for attendance
at Memorial Day Ceremony. A meeting to go over plans for Harmon Firehouse expansion
coming soon. Lease with property owner permitting parking spots for EMS personnel behind
Harmon Firehouse ends 6/1/23. Looking forward to upcoming Summerfest.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion: J. Streany / 2nd G. Tucci to approve the minutes of the 4/25/2023 Council Meeting –
CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
• Out of Pocket reimbursement request from Joe Streany for purchase of Big Bucks
Tickets in the amount of $144.00 – Motion D. Vlad / 2nd G. Tucci to approve – CARRIED.
• Application for Active Membership with Washington Engine received from Nick Ambos.
Motion D. Vlad/2nd J. Streany to approve pending favorable background check – CARRIED.
• Letter from Chemical Engine reporting Tom Mosler has resigned as Captain and as an
Active Member of the Company in Good Standing as of 5/22/23. Motion J. Streany / 2nd G.
Tucci to approve – CARRIED.
• Letter from Chemical Engine reporting Dave Altamura is Acting Captain, Chris Sarcone is
Acting 1st Lieutenant and Rob Pappas remains 2nd Lieutenant.
• Excuses from J. Karpoff and M. Feminella received. Motion D. Vlad/2nd G. Tucci to accept
– CARRIED.
Reports of the Chiefs
J. Munson (2081)
 Hendrickson recently made repairs to several apparatus in-house. All rigs currently in
service.
 Specs done for M12 and were given to Village to complete purchase.
 Thank you for great showing at Memorial Day ceremony.
 A good time was had by all at recent Cornhole Tournament. Looking forward to next
one.
 Numerous training/drills being planned for Summer months..

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, May 30, 2023
 Still working to received donation from Hudson National Golf Course for purchase of a
UTV.
 Inspection will be Saturday 9/16 – open to members and their families/significant
others. Awards will be given.
 Question from Dan Vlad about bailout classes – Chief reports they are coming soon.
C. Colombo (2083)
 Appreciates everyone’s efforts at calls, drills, etc.
 Looking forward to parade season and hopes others will be participating too.
 House repair issues seem to be caught up. Question from J. Delaney about air duct
cleaning at Harmon Firehouse. It is budgeted for to be done this year.
Reports of Committees
Big Bucks – J. Streany reports tickets due at Summerfest by 5pm, please get him prize money
from each Company.
Summerfest – Chief Munson reports department will have a booth at Summerfest to distribute
fire prevention/safety, recruitment and LOSAP referendum information.
LOSAP – T. Dinkler reports that due to cutover to new records management system, there may
be delays posting monthly information.
Fund Drive – T. Dinkler reports 2023 Fund Drive balance is $14,328.00.
Special Order of Business: None
Unfinished Business:
T. Kaplan asked status of IT upgrades project and whether members from each Company
would be engaged – Chief Munson reports there isn’t much for anyone to do at this point, and
vendor has been hard to work with.
New Business:
T. Kaplan advises that the Ladder Company had concerns about cable bill at their firehouse
recently and was inquiring what, if anything, department is paying for. A discussion followed.
T. Kaplan asked status of new records management system and what access companies will
have to it. Chief Munson reports a new vendor is being utilized soon and permissions have to
be discussed with them.
Checks given to each Company for the annual Town of Cortlandt Fire Protection contract. Total
of contract for the FD is $47,179.00, each Company being paid $9,436.00.
Treasurer’s Report: No Report submitted.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad /2nd G. Tucci – CARRIED. M eeting Adjourned at 19:34.

Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 6/ 12/ 23.

