Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Tuesday, September 12, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Assistant to Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Gallelli
Trustee Horowitz
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

1. CALL TO ORDER
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:15pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Horowitz made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23241622 through 23241880. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$419,708.70
$25,586.10
$9,501.14
$120,437.02

3. PUBLIC HEARING:
a. A motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 17 of
2023, amending and updating provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning of the Code
of the Village of Croton on Hudson was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Gallelli and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that this Local Law updates the definition
of “Family” which reflects some of the recent court rulings, as well as
cleaning up various other items related to definitions and Zoning Districts.
To view the entire proposed law, you may click on the following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202308/6ffb6ed935c392b1c5fdafe0a7f480e712e149ff.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 2

There being no further to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Gallelli. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
5. Review of the Environment Assessment Form Part II and the Village's Local
Waterfront Revitalization Program policies by the Village Board to determine
consistency related to the special permit application from Ameriland Brook LLC,
to add a three-story mixed-use building next to the existing one-story
commercial building located at 352 South Riverside Avenue.
SHORT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM PART II
No, or
small
impact
may occur
1.

Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics that caused
the establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing level of traffic
or affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walkway?

√

6.

√

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to
incorporate reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?
b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?

√
√

8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic,
archaeological, architectural or aesthetic resources?

√

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources (e.g.,
wetlands, waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or human health?

√

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 3

Local Waterfront Revitalization Program Policies
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and
underutilized waterfront areas for commercial,
industrial, cultural, recreational and other compatible
uses
Existing planning and zoning documents should be
reviewed and amended where necessary to ensure
development within the community is consistent with
adopted goals and policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned land at the
Metro North Train Station, including Village garage
and bay area. Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of requirements
relating to parking and accessory uses of Metro North
Train Station, while facilitating public access to bay
area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the municipality to
encourage the mutual cooperation and exchange of
information between governmental agencies involved
in clean-up of the Croton landfill and Metro-North
lagoon in order to develop commercial use of
resources found in the coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating structures related
to railroad use and assure appropriate maintenance
and screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant site at the
intersection of Route 9A and Municipal Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent uses and
facilities on or adjacent to coastal waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power boats on the
Hudson River and Croton River and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters that regulate
boat traffic such a speed, turbidity, safety, and
mooring and sludge disposal. Such controls will
further increase the compatibility of power boat use
with other forms of recreation use within the coastal
zone area.
The state coastal policy regarding the development of
major ports is not applicable to
Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the strengthening
of small harbors is not applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development in areas
where public services and facilities essential to such
development are adequate, except when such
development has special functional requirements or
other characteristics which necessitate its location in

1A

1B

1C

1D
1E
2
2A

3
4
5

WAC RESPONSE

Applicable
Yes/No
Yes

VILLAGE BOARD

Consistent
Yes/No
Yes

Applicable
Yes/No
Yes

Consistent
Yes/No
Yes

Comments

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Board
Concurred

No

No

No

No
No
No
No

No
No
Yes

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 4

5A

5B

5C

6
6A

7
7A

7B

7C

7D

7E

other coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the Village should
be directed within the current service area of existing
water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently exist.
The extension of water and sewer distribution lines
beyond areas currently served should be undertaken
cautiously and with prudent regard for Village water
resources and the preservation of environmental
values in undeveloped areas.
Limit proposed development within those portions of
the coastal zone boundary area, where traffic impacts
such as site distance and carrying capacity of the
roadways are restricted, particularly along Route 9A,
Albany Post Road and Route 129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the
siting of development activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the Village shall
coordinate all relevant local laws into a development
package for applicants and/or make all local laws
available to applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be
protected, preserved, and, where practical, restored
so as to maintain their viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay significant
fish and wildlife habitat and Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat shall be protected
and improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic,
recreational, and other public uses and values. Its
resources shall be protected from the threat of
pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade
or destroy the ecological system of the Croton River
and Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat
shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on
land within, the area of influence in the significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological system of the
Croton River and Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat or Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be permitted within the area of
influence of the habitat unless best available
technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to the
habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the
Croton River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay significant
fish and wildlife habitats and shore lands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of any adjacent
toxic and hazardous waste sites.
Runoff from public and private parking lots and from
storm sewer overflows shall be effectively channeled

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No

No

No
No

No
No

No

No

No

Yes

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 5

7F

7G
8

9

9A

9B

10

11

11A

so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants
from polluting surface and ground water and impact
the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not cause a
measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activity, or impact other locations.
Construction activity shall be timed so that spawning
of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be
adversely affected.
Such activities must not cause degradation of water
quality or impact identified significant fish and wildlife
habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area
from the introduction of hazardous wastes and other
pollutants which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub lethal or lethal effect on
those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and wildlife resources
in coastal areas by increasing access to existing
resources, supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts shall be
made in a manner which ensures the protection of
renewable fish and wildlife resources and considers
other activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and public access
to the rivers through Village-owned land adjacent to
the Metro-North parking lot, at Croton Point Park and
at Senasqua Park, along the Croton River, and at the
Croton Yacht Club. Efforts should be made to
encourage recreational use of the fish and wildlife
resources found in these areas by increasing the
opportunities for public access and enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the
wildlife in the designated significant fish and wildlife
habitats, on the Audubon Society Sanctuaries, on
other public or private lands within the Village, where
wildlife habitats are located. Encourage the
recreational use of areas where such resources are
found, as well as the protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish, shellfish and
crustacean resources in the coastal area by
encouraging the construction of new or improvement
of existing onshore commercial fishing facilities,
increasing marketing of the state's seafood products,
maintaining adequate stocks, and expanding
aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall be made in a
manner which ensures the protection of renewable
fish and wildlife resources and considers other
activities dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited in the
coastal area so as to minimize damage to property
and the endangering of human lives caused by
flooding and erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures shall be

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 6

12

12A

13

13A

14

15

16

16A

undertaken in order to safeguard persons, protect
property, prevent damage to the environment, and
promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or other activity
which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in earth
movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal area will be
undertaken so as to minimize damage to natural
resources and property from flooding and erosion by
protecting natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs. Primary
dunes will be protected from all encroachments that
could impair their natural protective capacity
Every effort should be made to protect Croton Point, a
natural protective barrier to Croton Bay from activities
or development that would increase erosion of or
flooding of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures shall be undertaken only if they
have a reasonable probability of controlling erosion for
at least thirty years as demonstrated in design and
construction standards and/or assured maintenance
or replacement programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be maintained
in good condition and private landowners should be
required to restore and maintain erosion control
mechanisms along their river frontage which are
designed for long term stability.
Activities and development, including the construction
or reconstruction of erosion protection structures,
shall be undertaken so that there will be no
measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at other
locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal waters shall
not significantly interfere with the natural coastal
processes which supply beach materials to land
adjacent to such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase in erosion of
such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion protective
structures where necessary to protect human life, and
new development which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be able to
function, or existing development; and only where the
public benefits outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for increasing
erosion and adverse effects on natural protective
features
Public funds shall be appropriated for the yearly
maintenance of Senasqua Park until such time that is
determined that expenditure of funds outweighs the
cost of acquiring, constructing and maintaining a

Concurred

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 7

17

17A

18

19

19A

19B
19C

19D
19E
20

21

similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural measures to
minimize damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion. Such measures shall
include: (i) the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the installation of sand
fencing and draining; (iii) the reshaping of bluffs; and
(iv) the flood-proofing of buildings or their elevation
above the base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers and on the
steep slopes rising from areas inland shall be of a
non-structural nature, wherever possible, in
consideration of the visual impact of structural
measures. The retention or planting of vegetative
covers will be preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social and
environmental interests of the state and of its citizens,
proposed major actions in the coastal area must give
full consideration to those interests, and to the
safeguards which the state has established to protect
valuable coastal resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level and types of
access to public water-related recreation resources
and facilities so that these resources and facilities
may be fully utilized in accordance with reasonably
anticipated public recreation needs and the protection
of historic and natural resources. In providing such
access, priority will be given to public beaches,
boating facilities, fishing areas and waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or
walkway system. Such systems should be provided
along undeveloped and underutilized land as well as
along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that have specific
value for their physical and visual access to the
Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public transportation,
when feasible, to areas within the coastal zone area
where water dependent and water enhanced
recreation activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and Bay at the
Village-owned land south of the Village parking lots at
the Croton-Harmon Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access to the Croton
River waterfront, in its current undeveloped condition
as a pedestrian walkway.
Access to the publicly owned foreshore and to lands
immediately adjacent to the foreshore or the water's
edge that are publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner compatible with
adjoining uses. Such lands shall be retained in public
ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced recreation will
be encouraged and facilitated and will be given

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No
No
No

No

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 8

21A

22

23

24

25

25A

25B
25C

priority over non-water related uses along the coast,
provided it is consistent with the preservation and
enhancement of other coastal resources and takes
into account demand for such facilities. In facilitating
such activities, priority shall be given to areas where
access to the recreation opportunities of the coast can
be provided by new or existing public transportation
services and to those areas where the use of the
shore is severely restricted by existing development.
Boating activities should be encouraged provided that
they do not restrict other recreational opportunities
and are undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the shore will
provide for water-related recreation, as a multiple use,
whenever such recreational use is appropriate in light
reasonably anticipated demand for such activities and
the primary purpose of the development
Protect, enhance and restore structures, districts, in
areas of sites that are of significance in the history,
architecture, archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of statewide
significance as identified on the coastal area map.
Impairment shall include: (i) the irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the destruction or
removal of vegetation, the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic forms, vegetation
or structures are significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition of structures
which because of siting or scale will reduce identified
views or which because of scale, form, or materials
will diminish the scenic quality of an identified
resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made
resources which are not identified as being of
statewide significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Protect local scenic resources by preventing: (i) the
irreversible modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or wetlands, the
destruction, or removal of structures, whenever the
geologic forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an identified
resources; and (ii) the addition of structures which
because of siting scale will reduce identified views or
which because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an identified resource.
Secure the designation of the panoramic views from
Croton Point as a scenic area of statewide
significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and 129 within
the Croton boundaries as a scenic road. Ensure

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No
No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 9

25D

26
27

28

28A
29
30

30A

30B
31

31A

32

developments on or adjacent to Route 9 do not impair
scenic resources or views of or from the Hudson and
Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified view-sheds which
provide visual access to the Hudson River, including
but not limited to the views of the Hudson River from
the western shoreline of the Village, and from Prickly
Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River Landing. In
addition, protect view-sheds to and of the Croton
River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the protection of
agricultural lands is not applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction of major
energy facilities in the coastal area will be based on
public energy needs, compatibility of such facilities
with the environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not damage
significant fish and wildlife and their habitats, increase
shoreline erosion or flooding, or interfere with the
production of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must consider short and
long- term impacts on the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the development of
energy resources is not applicable to Croton.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial discharge of
pollutants, including but not limited to, toxic and
hazardous substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportation-related
facilities shall not dispose any materials in coastal
waters until such materials have been tested by the
state for conformance with water quality standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials shall be
monitored by the state to assure there will be no
discharge or leaching of materials into coastal waters.
State coastal area policies and purposes of approved
local waterfront revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal water
classifications and while modifying water quality
standards; however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be recognized as
being a development constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC should
continually monitor water quality in the Hudson River
and Croton Bay which have already been
overburdened with pollutants. Recommendations for
mitigation and upgrading water quality classifications
cannot be determined without continual monitoring
and testing of the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or innovative
sanitary waste systems in small communities where

No

No
No

No

No
No
No

No

No
No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 10

33
33A

33B
34

34A
35

36

37

37A

37B

38

39

the costs of conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax base of these
communities.
Best Management Practices will be used to ensure
the control of storm water runoff and combined sewer
overflows draining into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain storm water
runoff on site so as to not increase flows within the
existing system or to improve existing storm water
runoff systems to that runoff from such developments
does not adversely impact coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water discharge to
control flow of pollutants from street and parking
areas, etc. directly in the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters from vessels
will be limited so as to protect significant fish and
wildlife habitats, recreational areas and water supply
areas.
There shall be no discharge from moored structures
or marine vessels, due to shape of cove and lack of
tidal flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in coastal waters
will be undertaken in a manner that meets existing
state dredging permit requirements, and protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic resources,
natural protective features, important agricultural
lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and storage of
petroleum and other hazardous materials will be
conducted in a manner that will prevent or at lease
minimize spills into coastal waters; all practicable
efforts will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup of
such discharges; and restitution for damages will be
required when these spills occur.
Best Management Practices will be utilized to
minimize the non-point discharge of excess nutrients,
organics and eroded soils into coastal waters.
Standards and specifications for the control of nonpoint source discharge as set forth in Westchester
County's Best Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized during
development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops, and steep
slopes should be exerted in order to prevent erosion
and minimize runoff and flooding from new
construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water and ground
water supplies will be conserved and protected,
particularly where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and disposal of solid
wastes, particularly hazardous wastes, within coastal
areas will be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water supplies,

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 11

39A

39B

40

41
41A
42

43
43A

43B

44
44A

significant fish and wildlife habitats, recreation areas,
important agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Require transporters, producers and storers of
hazardous material to inform the public or allow public
access to records involving the transport, storage,
treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. This
is of particular concern with respect to rail transport of
such materials, storage of identified materials on
railroad property and uses in the waterfront area
involved in the treatment, storage and disposal of
such materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302, Emergency
Planning and Community Right-to- Know of the 1986
Superfund Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
planning committee and the Croton Fire Department
shall be notified if hazardous substances exceed the
established threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam electric
generating and industrial facilities into coastal waters
will not be unduly injurious to fish and wildlife and
shall conform to state water quality standards.
Land use or development in the coastal area will not
cause national or state air quality standards to be
violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring station should
be established within the Village of Croton-onHudson.
Coastal management policies will be considered if the
state reclassifies land areas pursuant to the
prevention of significant deterioration regulations of
the Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal area must not
cause the generation of significant amounts of the
acid rain precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus service to the train
station, thereby decreasing dependency on the
automobile use and reduce the generation of acid rain
precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil fuels for rail
vehicles and encourage the development of a
monitoring program to assess rail vehicle engines
emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands
and preserve the benefits derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be
protected by preventing damage from erosion or
siltation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural
habitats and protecting against flood and pollution.

No

No

No

No
No
No

No
No

No

No
No

Village Manager Healy advised that a resolution will be prepared for the next meeting
with a Negative Declaration as well as a Statement Consistency.

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 12

6. CORRESPONDENCE
a.

Memorandum from Village Manager Bryan Healy regarding Chicha Fest.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202309/0d0b438061f235e4893c6ca17d0c7d25d0b108c6.pdf
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village received a check in the
amount of $2,936.74 representing the additional expenses the Village
incurred during the festival, the amount also includes a $250 fine for
violating the prohibition against charging admission fees.

b.

Email from John Munson, President/Secretary of the Croton Fire Council,
regarding membership changes from the Croton Fire Department.

c.

Email from Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, dated September 8,
2023, on obtaining stones from the Croton Dam for the 125th Anniversary
Celebration.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202309/7a496c393cf06f5ed0dde298265702f3042e0db8.pdf
Village Manager Healy explained that Superintendent of Public Works Frank
Balbi reached out to the New York City Department of Environmental
Protection regarding the request from the 125th Anniversary Committee for
the possible installation of some stones in one of our parks. Village
Manager Healy advised that this is not an effortless process and will involve
a significant amount of time on the part of our DPW staff as well as the
possibility of significant costs to the Village for obtaining these stones.
Trustee Gallelli explained that these are large pieces that were left over
from the Dam construction that are on the DEP’s property. Trustee Gallelli
stated that the 125th Anniversary Committee felt that since these stones
were used in the Dam construction it would be an appropriate time to get a
couple of them since the Dam is in Croton. Trustee Gallelli added that
given the work that would have to be done with the DEP, she believes that
we should not attempt to do it this year, and that we ask for a formal
opinion from our Village Historian as to whether he supports this and why
these would be important for the Village and then we can consider going
through the process.

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 13

Trustee Simon stated that what struck him was the many hoops we would
have to go through and perhaps, a little further down the line, the
Superintendent could give us a little more detail of the overall costs.
d.

Memorandum from Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer, regarding old
building permit and CO lots.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202309/d4c612fd449fd5d157e7d9181d73d88b7b325df2.pdf
Village Manager Healy explained that about fifteen years ago numerous
records from the 1930’s, 40’s and 50’s, which had been stored in the
basement, were located and subsequently were put in their correct
property files. Village Manager Healy advised that the Village would like to
hire back one of our retired clerks who is familiar with the system to go
through these files and prepare letters to notify property owners so that
they can address any potential problems.

7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS – None.
8. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #196 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with
a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application from
Ameriland Brook LLC, to add a three-story mixed-use building next to the existing onestory commercial building located at 352 South Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS on July 24, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees declared its intent to serve as
Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes and directed the staff to circulate its intent to all
involved agencies, and
WHEREAS on August 28, 2023, the Village Board declared itself Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes in connection with the proposed action, and

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 14

WHEREAS the Village Board has received memoranda of support from the Village
Planning Board, the County Planning Board, and the Waterfront Advisory Committee
regarding the Proposed Action, and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on Tuesday, September 26, 2023, at 7 PM, in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street,
Croton-on-Hudson, New York 10520, to consider the approval of a special permit
application from Ameriland Brook LLC, to add a three-story mixed-use building next to
the existing one-story commercial building located at 352 South Riverside Avenue.
Resolution #197 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend and update certain provisions of Chapter 230,
Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2023 which
has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on August 14, 2023, the Village Board declared itself to be Lead Agency for
SEQRA purposes in connection with the Proposed Action, and referred the Proposed
Action to the Village Planning Board, Waterfront Advisory Committee and Westchester
County Planning Board for comment in accordance with law, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received memoranda of support from the Village
Planning Board, Westchester County Planning Board and Waterfront Advisory Committee
regarding the Proposed Action, and
WHEREAS at its meeting on August 28, 2023, the Village Board reviewed Part 2 of the
Short Environmental Assessment Form for this local law and verbally answered the
questions set forth therein based upon the entire record, and determined that no
potential impacts were identified as moderate to large, and therefore no additional
analysis was required in a Part 3, and directed the preparation of the Part 2 and Part 3
forms and a negative declaration under SEQRA for adoption, and

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 15

WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with
respect to its SEQRA determination of significance as set forth at the August 28, 2023,
meeting in written form, and
WHEREAS at its meeting on August 28, 2023, the Village Board reviewed each of the 44
policies and sub-policies thereunder set forth in the LWRP and the explanation of each
policy as set forth in the LWRP, and
WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with
respect to its determination of consistency as set forth at the August 28, 2023, meeting
in written form, and
WHEREAS a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2023 was opened and
closed on September 12, 2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that based upon the entire record on the Proposed
Action and the above, the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts the EAF
Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto, and adopts a Negative
Declaration under SEQRA in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees makes the following
findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the
Proposed Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above were
reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED based upon the entire record on the Proposed Action and the
above, the Village Board of Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action,
the adoption of a local law to amend and update provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning, of
the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, complies with the policy standards and
conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 17 of 2023 to update provisions of the Zoning Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 17 of 2023.

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 16

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Horowitz stated that she still has some concerns with the definition of “Family”
and can think of groupings that might be inhabiting a dwelling that do not really come
under these definitions, and asked why we need this.
Village Manager Healy stated that this new definition provides an opportunity for
unrelated individuals living together to submit evidence that they are operating as a
family unit, our current definition does not provide unrelated individuals any opportunity
to prove they are a family unit.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that unrelated people would be considered under this
definition as a Family if they are living together like a family which means they are
sharing common cooking facilities and they all have access and use of the entire house.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that we want to differentiate that it is not a boarding
house where a person only has the use of one room. Village Attorney Whitehead asked
Trustee Horowitz for a specific example of what she is concerned about.
Trustee Horowitz said that she was thinking about two single parents with children living
together, but the definition implies that the group lives and cooks together as a single
housekeeping unit but what happens if they do not cook at the same time. Trustee
Horowitz also stated that this could also affect older groups that may decide to live under
one household for financial reasons.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that as long as they are sharing a common kitchen and
also have access to the entire house.
Village Manager Healy stated that if they did not have access to the entire house, then it
could be construed that the home was being used as a boarding house, which is not
allowed.
Mayor Pugh stated that our current statue is more restrictive, this update establishes
principles for evaluating a family.
Trustee Nicholson asked why it could not just say “a group sharing a kitchen or common
space” instead of saying “lives and cooks together,” and asked if this was State provided
language.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that this language came from other codes that we
found were upheld in court.

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 17

After further discussion, the Board decided to pass the resolution and review it further for
possible changes in the future.
Resolution 198 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on July 15, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees received a letter from Annie
Mykyta requesting the Village petition Westchester County to remove the property
located at 1 Alexander Lane from the Ossining Sanitary Sewer District, with the reasoning
that the property is currently not connected to the sanitary sewer system and the closest
sewer main is more than 200 feet from the property line, and
WHEREAS at the board meeting of August 1, 2022, the Village Board authorized the
Village Manager to petition the County Legislature to start the process of removing the
property located at 1 Alexander Lane, Croton-on-Hudson, from the Ossining Sanitary
Sewer District, and
WHEREAS on August 29, 2023, the Engineering Department received a letter from the
Westchester County Department of Environmental Facilities requesting additional
documentation related to the property, including the adoption of a formal resolution,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby affirms the previous
request for the removal of 1 Alexander Lane, known as parcel 79.5-2-39 on the Village
tax map, from the Ossining Sanitary Sewer District, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Engineer is directed to provide the requested
documentation to the Westchester County Department of Environmental Facilities.
Resolution 199 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 68-2021 on May 17, 2021, to
authorize a tax certiorari settlement with Sky View Nursing Realty, LLC, and

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 18

WHEREAS as part of this settlement, the Village agreed to reduce the assessed valuation
of the property from 541,200 to 408,882, and
WHEREAS at the time of the settlement agreement, the assessment roll for 2021-2022
was already finalized, and
WHEREAS the Village owes a refund of $35,984.52 to Sky View Nursing Realty, LLC,
based on the new assessed valuation,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to process a
tax refund to Sky View Nursing Realty, LLC, in the amount of $35,984.52, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the payment of $35,984.52 shall be charged to the tax
stabilization reserve.
Resolution 200 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE HOROWITZ, seconded by TRUSTEE GALLELLI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Department of Public Works utilizes a Large Format Printer for the Village’s
various ongoing projects in lieu of using a third-party for printing services, and
WHEREAS the current printer was repurposed from the Engineering Department several
years ago, and
WHEREAS the printer has reached the end of its useful life, and
WHEREAS the Fiscal Year 2024 adopted budget does not include funds to purchase a new
Large Format Printer,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Treasurer to transfer $2,008.99 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account:
A5010.2000 - DPW Admin Equipment: $2,008.99
Resolution 201 of 2023

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 19

On motion of TRUSTEE GALLELLI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson, New York, with
a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Department of Public Works provides a wide variety of services for the
Village, and
WHEREAS employee salaries are traditionally budgeted in a single departmental account,
Street Maintenance, and then allocated throughout the year in accordance with payroll,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to amend the
General Fund 2023-2024 budgets in the amount of $318,509.85 to allocate funds for
each of the Department of Public Works based on services below:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A1620 1000 Buildings-Personnel ,

$ 33,270.55

A3310 1000 Traffic-Personnel Srvcs

$ 2,491.00

A3410 1210 Fire-Pers Srvcs OT- Projects

$ 3,258.86

A4540 1210 Personal Services OT Invest

$ 721.01

A5010 1999 DPW Adm-Personnel Srvcs Comp

$ 821.34

A5110 1999 St Maint-Personnel Srvcs Comp

$ 371.00

A5140 1000 Brush-Personnel Srvcs

$ 11,876.20

A5183 1000 Public Wrks-Personnel Srvcs

$ 115,154.81

A7110 1000 Parks-Personnel Srvcs

$ 3,362.83

A7140 1000 Com Rec-Personnel Srvcs

$ 6,020.24

A8090 1000 Recycling-Personnel Srvcs

$ 70,622.41

A8140 1000 Storm Sewr-Personnel Srvcs

$ 2,684.82

A8160 1000 Refuse-Personnel Srvcs

$ 54,128.78

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 20

A8170 1000 St Clean-Personnel Srvcs

$ 3,677.02

A8560 1000 Shade Trees-Personnel Srvcs

$ 8,107.11

A8560 1200 Shade Trees-Pers Srvcs OT

$ 395.67

A8710 1100 Conservation-Personal Srvc PT

$ 1,546.20
Total: $ 318,509.85

Decrease
A5110 1000 Street Maint.

$ 318,509.85
Total: $ 318,509.85

9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Elisa Silverglade Rader, 1308 Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, stated that
according to the Trevor Project Report, LGBTQ youth who attend schools and
live in communities that accept and affirm LGBTQ have a much lower suicide
rate and thanked the many houses of worship in Croton and the community who
came out in support of the LGBTQ community this past Saturday. Ms.
Silverglade Rader also encouraged the Board to expand their current statement
of inclusivity which does not acknowledge gender or sexuality and to make the
statement more explicit.
10.APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
August 28, 2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Horowitz and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11.REPORTS
Trustee Nicholson advised that the Police Advisory Committee has rescheduled
their Town Hall meeting to October 19th, the Village of Croton on Hudson,
Village of Buchanan and the Town of Cortlandt held a beautiful 9-11 ceremony
and thanked everyone for all the work that went into putting it together.
Trustee Simon thanked everyone for contributing to a very moving and
wonderful 9-11 ceremony, the Telecommunications Advisory Committee met

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 21

last night and they are focusing on our Village Code, the Rotary Car Show will
take place on Sunday, October 1st, the Croton All Business Meeting will take
place on October 2nd, and welcomed Croton Hudson Distillery and Little Sprouts
Boutique to Croton, the Fire Council met on August 29th and updated us on
renovations and equipment as well as the upcoming Fire Fair scheduled for
October 8th, Octoberfest will be held on October 7th, congratulated everyone on
a wonderful Arts Festival, thanked our DPW for the new bench made from the
wood from the Merwin Oak tree, thanked our Police Department for a
magnificent job during last Saturday’s event, and advised that Village Historian
Marc Cheshire will be giving a presentation on Thursday at 7:00pm at the
Library on the Destruction of Riverside Avenue.
Trustee Gallelli dittoed all the comments made regarding the 9-11 ceremony as
well as the other events that have taken place in Croton, the
Telecommunications Advisory Committee is working on a survey that they will
be sending out to the community, Hudson River Day was well attended and a
wonderful day was had by all attendees, sat in on a Webinar this week
regarding Downtown Revitalization Initiatives regarding future grant money,
this Thursday at 9:00am a ribbon cutting ceremony will take place regarding
the opening of the new sidewalk section at the corner of Croton Point Avenue
and South Riverside.
Trustee Horowitz stated that last Saturday’s event held in the Upper Village was
a very compassionate and displayed our community’s support for Croton Pride
and thanked Michael Grant of the Black Cow for his consistent support of the
LGBTQ community, Andy DeRado of By the Dam Books for hosting a Drag
Queen story hour, the Interfaith community for showing their support as well as
our Village officials and Croton Police Department who did an outstanding job of
community policing. Trustee Horowitz also thanked the Croton Advisory Council
and the Department of Public works for putting together a lovely garden in
Senasqua Park in memory of David Bruce Laemmel in honor of all his
contributions to the Village, State Assemblywomen Dana Levenberg invited all
artists residing in or practicing in her District to submit their work by Thursday,
September 14th for the Inaugural Exhibit called “Contemplating the Hudson
Rivier”.
Mayor Pugh advised that they will be putting out a request for applicants for the
Conservation Advisory Committee, the Diversity and Inclusion Committee and

Village Board of Trustees
September 12, 2023
Page 22

the Visual Environment Board. Mayor Pugh thanked Village Manager Bryan
Healy for organizing the upcoming Citizen’s Preparedness Workshop scheduled
for December 16th.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Horowitz. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 7:39pm
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
_______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

