Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, May 22, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

The following officials were absent:
Trustee Murtaugh
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Politi

1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23245893 through 23246194. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$254,925.13
$19,572.08
$6,685.93
$280,187.57

3. PUBLIC HEARING
A motion to open a Public Hearing to review the past performance of the
cable operator Altice, and to identify the future cable-related community
needs of the Village was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that the renewal process is spelled out in
Federal Law, the Board has retained Special Counsel to assist the Village
with the negotiations and part of the negotiation process is to hold a Public
Hearing to hear feedback from residents on the past performance of the
cable operator over the term of the previous Franchise Agreement as well as
our future cable needs. Village Manager Healy stated that the Franchise
renewal represents a prime opportunity for municipalities to assert their

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 2

rights concerning their cable operator and to secure significant benefits in
exchange for granting the operator the right to use their public rights-ofway, potential benefits through the franchise renewal include: (1) strong
and enforceable customer service standards, (2) a state-of-the-art cable
system, (3) protections of the public rights-of-way, (4) Franchise fees for
the cable operator’s use of the public rights-of-way and improved Franchise
fee accountability, (5) reporting requirements on the cable operator, (6)
legal protections for the Village, and (7) improved mechanisms to enforce
the Franchise Agreement.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Chris Oliver, 5 Alexander Lane, Croton on Hudson, advised that he lost his
service for nine days, crews came to his home several times but were
unable to solve the problem, it seems that because he installed fiber, it was
harder to fix, but what is most troubling was not being able to speak directly
with someone from the company, the New York Metropolitan area has a
market of probably fifteen to twenty million people and to not be able to get
someone locally to speak with to explain what the problem was, is
extremely frustrating and troubling.
Trustee Simon asked if Mr. Oliver received what he would regard as an
acceptable explanation of what caused the outage.
Mr. Oliver said he received it from the technician on site last Tuesday. Mr.
Oliver stated that they have a lot of subcontractors, but when they arrive
they have no idea what the problem is nor any instructions from the
company.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that Altice and its
predecessors produced some of the best cable service in this area, and their
technicians who are usually subcontractors are very good and cooperative,
in his experience, these types of businesses have the worst customer
service record, but if you go to their Peekskill office he has found them to be
very helpful and cooperative and they do try to remedy your problem. Mr.
Riely suggested that the Village demand from them a clear method of
handling customer complaints and make that part of the contract.
Cheryl Goldberg, 11 Alexander Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that she was
part of the outage that Mr. Oliver spoke about, but prior to that, she has
had a lot of trouble with customer service and applauds the person who

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 3

suggested having something about customer service put into the
agreement. Ms. Goldberg stated that she likes the service, they provide a
lot of information on their cable channel and compared to other service
providers she feels her service is much better, but she spent many hours
trying to get her cable and internet to work effectively, it is very frustrating
having to speak with multiple people on different continents every time you
have a problem.
Richard Katz, 4 Oreilly Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that he had
equipment sent to him that he didn’t order, he was told to return it to
Peekskill which he did, but they continued to charge him for that equipment,
when he questioned them on why he was still being billed, he was told that
he did not return the equipment and this went on for eight months, he also
had to spent hours trying to resolve an issue with his remote which he
eventually had to take care of himself, his bill has gone up from $190.00 to
$243.00 and when he asked he was told that his special promotion expired,
after discussions they agreed to reduce his bill by $10.00 but that never
showed up on his bill, and when he explained that to them, they did not
have any record of the conversation, if he had another option he would take
it, and paying this amount a year is outrageous.
Trustee Simon asked that we attempt through our newsletter and our social
media platforms to solicit additional written opinions from the community.
WRITTEN COMMENT:
Maria Cudequest, 84 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
quite pleased with Altice/Optimum and problems for her are few and far
between.
Village Manager Healy encouraged residents who are having sustained
problems to reach out to his office, the Village has a Government Affairs
contact where we can at least reach out to them to find out what the root
cause of the problems are.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon and seconded by
Trustee Nicholson. The motion was approved with a 3-0 vote.
4. RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL – none.
5. CORRESPONDENCE

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 4

a. Memo from Keiko Niccolini, Food Scrap Program Manager requesting
the cost of bringing 12 cubic yards of finished compost back to the
community.
Trustee Simon stated that the multi-layered process that they use to
turn this into first class fertilizer is astonishing and supports bringing
some of that refined compost back to Croton. Trustee Simon directed
anyone interested in the program to the Sustainability Committee’s
Website. https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/foodscrap.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Nicholson and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees approved $500 for the cost of bringing 12 cubic
yards of finished compost back to Croton. Motion was approved with a
3-0 vote.
b. American Legion Fox-Eklof Post 505 Memorial Day Ceremony Program
and Flyer.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202405/069e16b3fd74576ba2c945ffd9fcbb5e97467ac9.pdf
c. Email from Kimberly Russell, Fire Council Secretary,
membership changes in the Croton Fire Department.

regarding

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202405/8b0ea6e6edf57197bc5989c61a941390cd35a22e.pdf
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson, the
Board of Trustees approved the membership changes of the Croton
Fire Department. Motion was approved with a 3-0 vote.
6.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
concerned with the type of news coverage broadcasted through News 12,
stated that he supports honoring our volunteers, but does not support
naming streets after local residents and suggested that residents be
honored by other means, understands that we are protecting the Indian
Brook Water District but the Village should also include Van Cortlandt Manor,

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 5

the entire parking lot of the Blaze, Shoprite, the New York State Department
of Transportation, the State run Railroad, and the County of Westchester.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #99-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has seen an increase in visitors to the Croton
River area along Cedar Lane, Nordica Drive and Truesdale Drive over the past decade,
and
WHEREAS the increase in visitors has put a strain on the resources of the Croton-onHudson Police Department, who must respond to issues such as parking violations,
trespassing and swimmers in distress, and
WHEREAS the Village has sought to respond to this increase by implementing parking
restrictions on the aforementioned streets on weekends and holidays during the summer
months, and
WHEREAS these parking restrictions have helped to abate the problems in the
neighborhood, but inconvenienced the residents, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has sought home rule legislation since 2019 to
implement a residential parking permit system in the Croton River area, and
WHEREAS in 2023, the state legislature passed a bill to permit the residential parking
system, which was signed into law by Governor Kathy Hochul on September 15, 2023,
and
WHEREAS, since that time, the Village Board has sought comments from, and listened to,
the residents of the Croton River area as well as residents who use Mayo’s Landing and
Silver Lake Park for recreational activities; and
WHEREAS the Village would now like to amend Chapter 215 of the Village Code, Vehicles
and Traffic, to implement a residential parking permit system along certain portions of
Cedar Lane, Nordica Drive and Truesdale Drive, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes,

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 6

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing for June 12, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of
the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law Introductory No. 8 of
2024 to amend Chapter 215 of the Village Code, Vehicles and Traffic, to implement a
residential parking permit system along certain portions of Cedar Lane, Nordica Drive and
Truesdale Drive.
Local Law #8
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202405/e1df07059d574e4b51e1aeecf28acf8fef93ebe0.pdf
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy stated that temporary permits for health aides, babysitters, or
service workers, will be issued for a maximum of three days, anyone staying for a longer
period of time would need to come back and seek another permit for an additional three
days.
Trustee Simon stated that he is comfortable with the three days since we will have most
of the season of experience under our belts by the time October 1st rolls around and then
we can assess how this is working.
Village Manager Healy asked if the Board wanted to have a cost associated with the
temporary permits, in the existing law the first two vehicles for anyone with a residential
permit is free, but additional cars would pay $10.00 per vehicle for a two-year period.
Trustee Simon stated that in his opinion the temporary permits should be similar to the
residential permits and allow them to be free and that we can assess the situation down
the road.
Mayor Pugh agreed to leave it free at this time, if we find it results in hundreds of permits
being issued over the summer, we can reassess.
Resolution 100-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson values the contributions of its residents,
businesses, and community groups who volunteer and take care of our Village, thereby
enhancing the quality of life for all, and

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 7

WHEREAS the success of the recent 125th Anniversary celebration, led by the Village’s
125th Anniversary Committee, highlighted the need for an ongoing effort to honor
community contributions, leading to the proposal for the HEART Committee, and
WHEREAS the HEART Committee will embody the principles of Helping, Exemplifying,
Aiding, Respecting, and Teaching (HEART) to identify and honor such individuals and
entities,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the 125th Anniversary Committee is hereby
sunset with the conclusion of its duties in celebrating the Village's 125th anniversary, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby establishes the
HEART Committee to honor Croton residents, businesses, or groups, either living or
deceased, who have significantly contributed to the betterment of our Village, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such Committee shall be composed of between five and
seven Village residents, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Board of Trustees
to serve staggered three-year terms, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that members shall include representatives from various
sectors of the community, ensuring diverse perspectives and backgrounds.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Nicholson explained that the committee will draw nominations from the
community and believes that this is a good way to make sure that this is an equitable
distribution of acknowledgement, we have a lot of people who have done extraordinary
work in the Village, and it is a great to be able to honor them, they are also looking to
honor two to three people a year.
Resolution #101-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 3–0 vote.
WHEREAS in November 2011, the Village Board of Trustees authorized a contract with
Mid-Hudson Ambulance District (MHAD) to provide supplemental Emergency Medical
Technician (EMT) services to Croton Emergency Medical Services (EMS), and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to continue to provide supplemental services to Croton EMS,
and

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 8

WHEREAS MHAD has provided an agreement to continue providing supplemental EMT
services to Croton EMS at a rate of $43.79 per hour, and
WHEREAS the agreement is effective June 1, 2024, through May 31, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to execute an agreement for EMT services from MHAD, at a rate of
$43.79 per hour for the period beginning June 1, 2024, through May 31, 2025, subject to
the final approval of the Village Attorney.
Resolution #102 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICOLSON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson owns a certain parcel of parkland known as
Vassallo Park. and
WHEREAS LEAP F.C., located at 124 Grand Street, wishes to continue conducting
recreational activities for their participants at Vassallo Park, and
WHEREAS the Village would like to renew the agreement with LEAP F.C. regarding the
use of the park, and set a monthly license fee in the amount of $50 per month, and
WHEREAS, the term of the license agreement shall be through May 31, 2025, and subject
to renewal at the discretion of the Village,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the renewal of the License Agreement with LEAP F.C. of Croton-on-Hudson, NY
to conduct certain recreational activities at Vassallo Park.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that there has been a lot of interest from the community, it is rare
on the weekends to drive by and not see some great activity going on, he is also pleased
that LEAP, as a relatively new business, has been an active participant in our business
meetings.
Resolution #103 of 2024

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 9

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has contracted with SeamlessDocs of New
York, New York, to host the Village’s online forms for the Recreation Department, Village
Clerk’s Office and Village Treasurer’s Office, and
WHEREAS SeamlessDocs also accepts online payments through a third-party platform for
the Recreation Department and Village Clerk’s Office, and
WHEREAS a renewal agreement has been submitted to the Village for the period of June
1, 2024, through May 31, 2025, at a cost of $4,507.80,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to execute the
renewal agreement with SeamlessDocs for the period of June 1, 2024, through May 31,
2025, at a cost of $4,507.80, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for such agreement is available in A6410.4000.
Resolution #104 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village regularly charges various fees for services rendered or permits
issued, and
WHEREAS mitigating circumstances will occasionally result in an inability or unlikelihood
of collecting said fees, and
WHEREAS the Village Treasurer is recommending writing off Invoice 2022739 in the
General Fund as uncollectable, and
WHEREAS the total to be written off is $50,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the writing off of Invoice 2022739 in the amount of $50.
DISCUSSION:

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 10

Village Manager Healy explained that this is for a dog impound fee that was never paid,
the person has subsequently moved away, and we are unable to locate the person and
supports writing this off at this time.
Resolution #105 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Department of Public Works currently utilizes a 1990 International 10wheel dump truck for daily operations, and
WHEREAS this vehicle has reached the end of its useful life and must be replaced, and
WHEREAS the proposed Capital Plan for the 2024-2025 fiscal year includes the purchase
of a new large dump truck for the Department of Public Works, and
WHEREAS the previous resolution inaccurately increased the budget for the truck
purchase, and
WHEREAS the budget must now be adjusted to reflect a lower allocation for the new
dump truck,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following amendment to the 2023-2024 General Fund and Capital Fund budgets:
GENERAL FUND REVENUE
Decrease
A1000.2665

Sales of Equipment

$28,690

CAPITAL FUND EXPENSE
Decrease
H5110.2010.24467 DPW Equipment

$28,690

Resolution #106 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 3-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 11

WHEREAS the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department seeks to enhance its communication
coverage and reliability by installing a two-way radio repeater system at the well fields,
and
WHEREAS the estimated cost of installing the system is $30,302.65, and
WHEREAS an additional $10,125 is needed to cover the remaining cost of the project,
and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2023-2024 General Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $10,125 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
account(s):
A.3120.2000 – Police Department – Equipment: $10,125
Resolution #107 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Indian Brook – Croton Gorge Conservation Action Plan was completed in
2007 to help preserve this natural area in Westchester County, and
WHEREAS since that time, the Town of Cortlandt, Town of New Castle, Town of Ossining,
Village of Ossining and Village of Croton-on-Hudson have worked together to implement
various aspects of the plan, and
WHEREAS the five municipalities received grant funding from New York State to
implement an overlay zoning district for areas of the watershed, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on May 15, 2024, the Village Board referred Local Law Introductory No. 7 of
2024 to the Village Planning Board, Waterfront Advisory Committee and Westchester
County Planning Board for review and comment, and
WHEREAS it is anticipated that comments from all three agencies will be received before
the date of the public hearing,

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 12

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on June 12, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of
the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law Introductory No. 7 of
2024 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to provide for the creation of
the Indian Brook – Croton Gorge Watershed Protection Overlay District.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Tony Granger, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, referred to an editorial in
the local newspaper regarding the sale of Lot A and the recent Board meeting
where the discussion was held.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, objected to a local
business in Croton selling abortion drugs, objects to the local bookstore
sponsoring a Drag Queen story hour, expressed his concerns with the New
York State’s Attorney General’s Office.
Marilyn Grantner, 115 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that
because a business in Croton carries the abortion drug does not make it a
local issue.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
May 8, 2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on May 15, 2024,
was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson
and approved with a 3-0 vote.
10. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson advised that the Recreation Advisory Committee met and
discussed the installation of AED’s in all of our sports fields, they also
discussed the shuttle bus for the Friday night concert series, the
Conservation Advisory Council met and they are planning a compost event on
June 9th at Gouveia Park, the CLEAN Committee’s next clean up will be held
on June 1st, and the Repair Café is scheduled for July 13th.
Trustee Simon advised that on May 9th he attended the Westchester
Municipal Officials Association monthly meeting where they had a

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 13

presentation on hiring those on the Autism Scale, he along with Trustee Politi
attended the business meeting on May 10th where Chief Nikitopoulos spoke
about how our Police Department works with the business community, as
well as a presentation by Riverfest FPS who are looking to bring back the
great Clearwater concert, thanked Anthony Carbone who runs Sustainable
Materials Management, the Big Easy held on May 11th was a success and
thanked everyone involved, and is pleased to advise that we have met all of
the concerns expressed by our Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
Mayor Pugh advised that the Sustainability Committee met this past Sunday,
and thanks to Lindsay Audin, the Village maintains a towering lead when it
comes to the Clean Energy Communities program, a Blood Drive will be held
this Saturday and encouraged everyone to join us for the Memorial Day
celebrations.
Mayor Pugh asked for a moment of silence in memory of Joseph Fiorito who
recently passed away, Joseph Fiorito was a former Croton Trustee and a
former Chief of the Croton Fire Department.
Village Manager Healy advised that the New York State Department of
Transportation is going to be repainting the Warren Road overpass beginning
mid-June and to expect some disruptions during that project, the Grand
Street wall project is moving along, forty Village employees were trained on
the use of Narcan and thanked Westchester County for providing that
training, the Maple Commons project is hoping for a July move-in, thanked
the Fire Department for their quick response time last week to a house fire
on Memory Lane, and is pleased to advise that the fireman who was injured
is doing well, the Village is working on the installation of AED’s in our parks,
and progress is moving along on the solar canopy at the train station and
encouraged permit holders to check their emails for lot openings and
closings.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.
The meeting was
adjourned at 8:32pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary

Village Board of Trustees
May 22, 2024
Page 14

___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

