Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, June 26, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon
Trustee

The following officials were absent:
Trustee Politi
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23246515 through 23246717 (Post Audit 2400000524000030). The Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved
with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Post Audit Warrant
TOTAL

$275,012.46
$28,232.36
$1,513.65
$83,286.08
$11,850.00
$1,253.31
$399,894.55

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
A motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2024
to amend Chapter 206, Telecommunications Towers, of the Village
Code to provide for the regulation of wireless facilities, was made by Trustee
Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0
vote.
Village Manager Healy advised that, if adopted, Local Law #5 of 2024 will
repeal the existing Chapter 206 of the Village Code which was first enacted
in 1998 and replace it with this new Chapter which has been developed with

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 2

the assistance of our Telecommunications Consultant, Televate, our Village
Attorney and our Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
To view the proposed Local Law, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/f5401e0e7ba734eb9f090f441eb069c5e74436b1.pdf
Mayor Pugh asked Village Attorney Whitehead to explain the difference
between the current code and the proposed law with respect to where these
towers could be located.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that under the current code
telecommunications towers are permitted anywhere in the Village subject to
approval by the Board of Trustees, under the proposed Local Law it is
limited to certain Districts.
Village
Manager Healy
indicated
the
following
Districts
where
telecommunications towers would be permitted if this Local Law was
adopted: Light Industrial (LI), Parks, Recreation and Education (PRE-1 and
PRE-3), Limited Office (O-1), General Commercial (C-2), One-Family
Residence (RA-40), and One-Family Residence (RA-60).
COMMENTS:
Renee Curci Ivanoff, 233 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
she supports improving cell service in Croton, but objects to allowing cell
towers to be built in her neighborhood, we already have two cell towers in
the Village, one at the train Station and one on top of Village Hall, yet the
study conducted by Televate showed that within one-thousand feet of the
Village Hall cell tower, cell strength is poor, and that on Young Avenue which
is two-thousand feet from the train station tower, cell strength is also poor
and attributed this to Croton’s hilly terrain and urged the Board to invest in
small cell technology.
Bruce Kauderer, 6 Georgia Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is well
aware that cell phone service in parts of the Village is spotty, but this law is
a very bad idea, we should not resolve inconveniences by harming other
property owners and is concerned that allowing a cell tower to be built in a
residential neighborhood will bring down property values, there is a better
solution to this problem and urged the Board to look at small cell
technology.

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 3

Michael Lanzillotto, 3 Birch Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
concerned that allowing a cell tower in his residential area would reduce his
property value. Mr. Lanzillotto stated that when he was building his home
he had to jump through hoops because the Village insisted that they keep
the tree canopy, yet if you build a big tower you would not be protecting the
tree canopy and urged the Board to put it on the golf course, it is the
highest point in the Village and would not interfere with residential
neighborhoods.
Kathleen Lamar, Giglio Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that cell phone
towers do not belong in any residential neighborhood and read a letter from
Liisa McCloy-Kelley, 220 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, objecting to
the proposed Local Law. (a copy of Liisa McCloy-Kelley’s letter can be
obtained by reaching out to the Village Manager’s Office).
Gunnar Anderson, 36 Sunset Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he uses
Verizon and does not seem to have an issue with his cell service, and asked
if the existing cell towers have all the different vendors using them.
James Curran, 159 Mount Airy Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that a study
from the “National Institute of Science Law and Public Policy” reported that
property values decrease up to twenty percent for homes when cell phone
towers are built in residential neighborhoods and since we invest heavily in
our homes, he is extremely concerned.
Ethan Lewis, 38 Glengary Road, Croton on Hudson, said that he had to drive
down to Village Hall and conduct an hour and half of work from the
municipal parking lot because he has poor service, a lot of people are not on
land lines any longer and he is concerned of what could happen in the event
of an emergency and encouraged the Village to explore the small cell option.
Sherry Horowitz, 119 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson stated that there are
more appropriate places to consider and mentioned a recent letter written
by a local resident in the Gazette that talked about reduction in property
values. Ms. Horowitz added that Televate, who performed the
telecommunications study, indicated that multiple cell towers would be
necessary to solve the Village’s gaps in cell phone coverage and asked that
the Village explore small cell technology.
Daniel Oppenheim, 17 Mount Green Road, believes this is a pure business
decision and does not understand why the Board would consider placing a

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 4

tower in a residential neighborhood. Mr. Oppenheim addressed health risks
that were highlighted through a study by a non-profit “Think Tank” called
the “Environmental Health Trust” that indicated health risks from being
exposed to cell towers.
Signe Bergstrom, 228 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, advised that in
2021 the U.S. Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia ruled that the
December 2019 decision by the FCC regarding its safety limits for human
exposure to wireless radiation was arbitrary and capricious, The court held
that the FCC failed to respond to evidence that exposure to RF radiation at
levels below the Commission’s current limits may cause negative health
effects. Ms. Bergstrom stated that more and more communities are taking a
hard look at safety concerns around 5G and cell towers and urged the Board
to take care of its residents and adopt a law that will maximize everyone’s
safety. To view the entire article, you may log onto the following:
https://ehtrust.org/in-historic-decision-federal-court-finds-fcc-failed-toexplain-why-it-ignored-scientific-evidence-showing-harm-from-wirelessradiation/
Joe Gonzales, Arrowcrest Drive, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the Board to
find some common ground and asked that the Board compromise and look
into small cell technology.
Kurt Carlson, 231 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he had
served on the Planning Board and the last Master Plan Committee and
believes that the Master Plan Committee would have rejected this.
Paul Leis, 92 Old Post Road South, Croton on Hudson stated that his office is
located about a quarter mile away from the cell tower at the train station
parking lot and his cell service is terrible and believes that large cell towers
do not necessarily provide adequate cell service and it sounds like the small
cell technology might be a better solution.
Aaron Lamar, 228 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
allowing cell towers in residential zoning districts creates a risk for residents
and believes that the RFP process will not protect them. Mr. Lamar stated
that small cell antennas can provide coverage for up to a mile and half and
because they are so small and unobtrusive, they can go just about
anywhere, we do not want cell towers in any of our neighborhoods and

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 5

asked that residential districts be removed from the code and implored the
Board to invest in small cell solutions.
Tony Granger, Half Moon Bay, stated that the FCC who set the limits for
exposure to this type of radiation is based on aging studies from the 1980’s,
and safety standards need to keep pace with these new technologies. Mr.
Granger stated that the “International Commission” on “Non-Ionizing
Radiation” published guidelines regarding exposure to this technology. To
review the report, you may log onto the following:
https://www.icnirp.org/cms/upload/publications/ICNIRPemfgdl.pdf
Rolf Lamar, 1 Giglio Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that cell towers in
residential neighborhoods are not in the best interest of the community and
asked what the driving force is to do this.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon thanked everyone for coming out this evening and
emphasized that the Board supports small cell technology and does not
know where the idea came from that the Board is not in favor of this
technology and added that the RFP (Request for Proposal) will also have a
very strong urging to telecommunications companies that they include
small cell technology in their proposals. Trustee Simon stated that there is a
health section in the Law, and the Board has been advised by legal counsel
that we follow the FCC regulations and while he understands there are views
that FCC standards could be strengthened, we are going to put the strongest
possible health language in the RFP that is legal. Trustee Simon stated that
some of the changes that we made were based on the recommendations of
the Telecommunications Advisory Committee which was not to specify
Village owned properties as potential sites because there was a concern that
this would drive potential vendors directly to Village sites, they also asked
that all projects be required to go before the Planning Board, increase the
alternative analysis scope where a company would need to prove that they
looked at places throughout the Village, and limit the ability of the Board to
waive application requirements. Trustee Simon stated that our first draft
did not include the RA40 and RA60 Zoning Districts, but specified municipal

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 6

owned properties and there was a strong feeling within the
Telecommunications Advisory Committee that by doing that we would be
driving the vendors directly to those public sites and they requested that we
broaden that to include RA40 and RA60 and believes that the Board met all
of the requests from our Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that several people have commented that we
should leave well enough alone and stick with the status-quo, but the
status-quo would allow a tower to be built anywhere in the Village, the new
law would prevent that, and we also have an outdated code which needs to
be brought into the twenty-first century. Trustee Murtaugh emphasized that
the Village cannot unilaterally block cell towers and thanked everyone for
their comments.
Trustee Nicholson thanked everyone for speaking this evening, her
colleagues on the Board have worked hard in trying to listen to the
Telecommunications Advisory Committee, the reason why RA40 and RA60 is
in this current draft is because the TAC requested it. Trustee Nicholson
stated that the number one recommendation from Televate was to update a
1988 statue and emphasized that we are not protected right now, the
Federal Government has things called “Shot-Clocks” that are on the side of
the telecommunications companies, and this is why we need to update our
code as soon as possible.
Village Manager Healy stated that one of the reasons the Hessian Hills Road
property came up for discussion is because an 80-foot-tall radio tower
primarily for emergency services currently exists in that location, we have
also heard from our Police Chief and Fire Chief that adding a tower in that
same location heard would greatly improve their communication services.
Mayor Pugh stated that our objective is to improve service since service
quality is an issue, and residents, through a recent study, indicated that
they need and want it improved and the Board is certainly open to these
new technologies. Mayor Pugh stated that we would all be better served if
we avoided speculation or accusations, if money was the primary objective,
we could have allowed a cell tower in the Hessian Hills neighborhood
already. .
Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2024 to amend Chapter
204, Taxation of the Village Code to add tax exemptions for the
construction of accessory dwelling units and living quarters for

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 7

parents/grandparents was made by Trustee Murtaugh.
seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote.

Motion was

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/c765d1f9e9267003973254c387e3a3db54034af0.pdf
Ethan Lewis, 38 Glengary Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is in favor
of this proposal that encourages members of a family to continue to live in
Croton.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #133-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Village Code to
add tax exemptions for the construction of accessory dwelling units and living quarters
for parents/grandparents, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2024 was opened and
closed on June 26, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2024, to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, of the Village
Code to add tax exemptions for the construction of accessory dwelling units and living
quarters for parents/grandparents, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 10 of
2024.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he believes this is a good bill that strengthens our
community by keeping families together.
Trustee Simon stated that we did a positive thing for the community when we adopted
the ADU Law and believes this is a good addition to the tools we have to make ADU
successful.

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 8

Mayor Pugh emphasized that this is not a tax credit or a tax deduction, but rather an
exemption from an increase due to the addition of an ADU on the property, in one case it
is temporary for new construction where the exemption phases out over time, and in the
other situations, it is special consideration for the purposes of a family unity.
Trustee Nicholson stated that the Town has the option to also pass this as well as the
school district.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Town has a law that was adopted in 1998 which was similar
to the grandparent exemption but also included provisions for an accessory dwelling unit
for a disabled individual and/or caretaker.
Resolution:
A motion to re-open the Public Hearing regarding Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2024 to
amend Chapter 206, Telecommunications Towers, was made by Trustee Simon.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
WRITTEN COMMENTS:
Domna Candido, 1299 Albany Post Road, Croton on Hudson, states that she is not in
favor of the proposed telecommunications law as written and believes the treatment of
the RA40 and RA60 segment is not acceptable and has some legal concerns about the
approach that is being taken and finds it generally unacceptable and believes that
monopole cell towers are not the solution for Croton.
Carl Folta and Molly Lemeris, 22 Sunset Drive, Croton on Hudson, states that they are
strongly opposed to the law as written, they believe this is not progress and is bad public
policy that will harm the aesthetics of the Village, reduce property values and potential
health hazards.
Connie DePinho, 7 Hixxon Road, Croton on Hudson, states that she is concerned about
the health of residents and wildlife in, as well as aesthetics, noise pollution and home
values.
Kenna and Joe Weiner, 94 Mount Airy Road South, Croton on Hudson, states that they
are in strong opposition for cell towers in residential and education areas especially the
PRE, RA40 and RA60 zones, they are also concerned about health risks, wildlife and
would like to see some solution for the lack of cell reception and believes this can be
done by using small cell technology.

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 9

Paula Chabrowe, 26 Mt. Green Road, Croton on Hudson states that residents would
benefit from improved cell service, but she does not think it should come at the expense
of the natural environment nor the well-being of our residents and encouraged the Board
to look at Cortlandt’s law.
There being no further written comments a motion to close the public hearing was made
by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0
vote.
4. RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Notice from the Ossining Town Board declaring its intent to assume the
role of Lead Agency for the proposed action to amend the Town’s Zoning
Ordinance to facilitate the planned re-purposing of the former General
Electric facility situated at 1 Old Albany Post Road in Ossining.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/e786e799af648773cb13c36254feb439c9e44d4a.pdf
b. Letter from Lance MacMillian, Regional Director at the New York State
Department of Transportation, in response to correspondence dated May
14, 2024, concerning NYSDOT matters in the Village.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/d0b6b8d3013f4cddf2bcf9234e9b4571dbd98dc2.pdf
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/b7a8a20248cc0550270696da6108fec3bf5bdb13.pdf
6.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, expressed his concern
over the new Watershed Plan and referred to the 2008 plan that included
wildlife, flora, rocks, the diversity and mix of beautiful areas along the
Croton River Gorge and the Indian Brook Reservoir, and believes that the
new law is aimed at individual landowners as opposed to the five major
polluters in Croton.
Tony Granger, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, questioned how small
towers mitigate the issue of radiation, advised that the “Children’s Health
Defense” successfully sued the FCC in August of 2021, the U.S. Court of

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 10

Appeals for the DC Circuit ruled that their decision was based on the FCC’s
failure to provide a reasonable explanation for the determination that its
1996 Radio Frequency Emission Guidelines adequately protected the public.
To
view
the
document,
log
onto
the
following:
https://childrenshealthdefense.org/wp-content/uploads/chd-v-fcc-we-wondecision.pdf. Mr. Granger asked that cellular companies be bonded in the
event of any physical harm to residents.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that there are provisions in the law
regarding Indemnifications and Insurance requirements that would have to
be provided to the Village.
7.

PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #134 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Maple Commons development has been constructed at 43-45 Maple
Street, and
WHEREAS as part of the construction project, a new water main was required to be
installed on the property, and
WHEREAS the Village has taken ownership of the water main in accordance with
Westchester County Dept. of Health guidelines, and
WHEREAS an Easement Agreement has been drafted to grant an easement to the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson for the installation, replacement, maintenance, operation, and
repair of the ductile iron water main and associated appurtenances within the designated
Easement Area, as more particularly described in Schedule B attached to the Agreement,
and
WHEREAS the terms of the Agreement require the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to
maintain the Easement Area and restore any surface disturbances caused by
maintenance activities,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the Easement Agreement with 41-51 Maple Housing Development Fund
Corporation and 41-51 Maple LLC, subject to the final approval of the Village Attorney.

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 11

Resolution #135 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been awarded a grant by the New York
State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) under the Clean Energy
Communities (CEC) program, and
WHEREAS the NYSERDA Clean Energy Communities program provides grants and
recognition to local governments that demonstrate leadership in clean energy initiatives
by completing NYSERDA-selected high-impact actions, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has met the requirements for grant funding
under the Clean Energy Communities program and has been awarded a total amount of
$425,000.00 for the implementation of specified clean energy projects and
WHEREAS the agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and NYSERDA
consists of the following components:
Installation of a 50kW carport solar array at 435 Yorktown Rd., Croton-on-Hudson,
NY 10520
Installation of a 35kW rooftop solar array at 30 Wayne St., Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520
Installation of a 10kW rooftop solar array at 30 Wayne St., Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520
Implementation of various building upgrades at the aforementioned locations
WHEREAS the agreement outlines the terms and conditions, deliverables, and minimum
performance requirements for the awarded grant projects, including planning and
completion phases, submission of deliverables, site inspections, and milestone payments,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson hereby authorizes the Village Manager to sign the NYSERDA Agreement
Number 231711, with an effective date of June 11, 2024, and an expiration date of
December 31, 2027.
DISCUSSION:

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 12

The Board of Trustees thanked Lindsay Audin for all his hard work in successfully getting
these grants for the Village.
Resolution #136 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson seeks certification as a Climate Smart
Community under the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
(DEC) program of that name, and
WHEREAS the DEC certifiers requested revision and re-submission of documents and
information that, if accepted, could secure that certification, and
WHEREAS some of that information involved acceptance and affirmation of various
studies and actions already received, accepted, and posted on the Village’s website but
lacking official resolutions to that effect,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the following documents developed at the
behest of the Village and posted on the Village website are hereby formally accepted,
Community Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Inventory of January 2024
June 2024 Community and Government Operations Climate Action Plans (CAPs)
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village adopts and has already pursued
recommendations for GHG reduction actions set forth in the June 2024 documents, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village will seek to reduce its municipal GHG
emissions by 20% between 2010 and the end of 2025, and its community GHG by
10% between 2010 and 2030.
Resolution #137 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Indian Brook – Croton Gorge Conservation Action Plan was completed in
2007 to help preserve this natural area in Westchester County, and

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 13

WHEREAS since that time, the Town of Cortlandt, Town of New Castle, Town of Ossining,
Village of Ossining and Village of Croton-on-Hudson have worked together to implement
various aspects of the plan, and
WHEREAS the five municipalities received grant funding from New York State to
implement an overlay zoning district for areas of the watershed, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on May 15, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead Agency for
SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS on June 12, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and
review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Full EAF “Determination of Significance”
attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
7 of 2024, which was opened and closed on June 12, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the
LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on June 12, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy standards and
conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the applicability of
the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies and
conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:

POLICY 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are adequate.
POLICY 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas where
distribution lines currently exist.
POLICY 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved, and,
where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 14

POLICY 7A The quality of the Croton River and Bay Significant Coastal Fish and Wildlife
Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be protected and
improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and other public uses and values.
Its resources shall be protected from the threat of pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.
POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat and the Haverstraw
Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on
land within, the area of influence in the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat or
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted within the area of
influence of the habitat unless best available technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to
the habitat.
POLICY 7D: Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitats and shore/ands shall be included in any
programs for cleanup of any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
POLICY 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer overflows shall
be effectively managed so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants from polluting
surface and ground water and impact to the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in erosion
or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity in the
Croton River and Hudson River spawning areas shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous
fish species and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
POLICY 7G: Construction activity of any kind must not cause significant degradation of water
quality or impact identified significant fish and wildlife habitats.
POLICY 7H: Habitat-related policies identified in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed
Conservation Action Plan will be considered in actions proposed for these areas (see Appendix
C).
POLICY 8: Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants which bio-accumulate in the food chain or which cause
significant sub-lethal or lethal effect on those resources.
POLICY 9A: Ensure continued recreational use and public access to the rivers through Villageowned land adjacent to the railroad parking lot, at Croton Point Park, at Senasqua and Croton

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 15

Landing Parks, along the Croton River, and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts should be made
to increase opportunities for public access and enjoyment in these areas.
POLICY 9B: Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated
significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle
Arboretum, Gouveia Park and on other public or private lands within the Village where wildlife
habitats are located, as well as the protection of such resources.
POLICY 19: Protect, maintain, and increase the level and types of access to public water
related recreation resources and facilities.
POLICY 19A: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the Hudson
and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.
POLICY 19B: Increase public access to areas that offer physical and visual connection to the
Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
POLICY 19D: Improve and maintain access to Croton River and Bay at the Village owned
Echo Canoe Launch south of the Village parking lots at the Croton Harmon Station.
POLICY 21A: Boating and fishing activities should be encouraged provided that they do not
restrict other water-related recreational opportunities and are undertaken in a manner
compatible with existing water-dependent uses.
POLICY 25A: Establish and protect identified public viewsheds of the Hudson River, including,
but not limited to the public views of the Hudson River from the western shoreline of the
Village, and of the Croton River and Gorge.
POLICY 32: Encourage the use of alternative or innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of conventional facilities are unreasonably high, given the size of
the existing tax base of these communities.
POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater
runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.
POLICY 33A: The flow of stormwater discharge shall be controlled to limit the flow of
pollutants from street and parking areas, etc. directly into the rivers and water bodies.
POLICY 37A: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should
be exerted in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new construction.

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 16

POLICY 38: The quality and quantity of surface water and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly where such waters constitute the primary or sole source
of water supply.
POLICY 39: The transport, storage, treatment and disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas will be conducted in such a manner so as to protect
groundwater and surface water supplies, significant fish and wildlife habitats, recreation areas,
important agricultural lands and scenic resources.
POLICY 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
POLICY 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing
damage from erosion or siltation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural habitats and
protecting against flood and pollution.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were
reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law amending
Chapter 230, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to add new Article IVB,
Indian Brook -Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District
(WPOD), and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts the
EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a Negative
Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 7 of 2024, to amend Chapter 230, of the Code of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson to add new Article IVB, Indian Brook -Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal
Watershed Protection Overlay District (WPOD), which upon adoption becomes Local Law
No. 11 of 2024.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that our Waterfront Advisory Committee spent a good deal of time
on this, and these policies came out of their excellent work.
Resolution #138 of 2024

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 17

On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to provide preventive, rehabilitative,
and treatment services to its employees through an Employee Assistance Program (EAP),
and
WHEREAS Westchester County, through its Department of Community Mental Health,
offers an EAP under the provisions of Articles 25 and 41 of the New York State Mental
Hygiene Law, which includes various support services such as program consultation, staff
development, program administration, maintenance, and client evaluation and referral,
and
WHEREAS the total cost of these services is calculated based on the number of
employees, resulting in a fee of $45 per employee per year, prorated for the period from
June 2024 to December 2024 to $26.25 per employee, totaling $1,890 for the year 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the intermunicipal agreement with Westchester County for the provision of Employee
Assistance Program services for the period starting June 1, 2024, and ending on
December 31, 2024.
Resolution #139 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Metro-North Railroad has requested permission to enter Village property for
the advancement of test borings, and
WHEREAS the borings are necessary as part of Metro-North’s continuing cleanup of the
Harmon Yards property, and
WHEREAS access for the advancement of the test borings is anticipated to take up to five
(5) days with no follow-up monitoring required, and
WHEREAS Metro-North shall at no time impede the Village’s or the public’s access,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Manager to sign the Permit to Enter Property, granting permission to Metro-North and its

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 18

contractor(s) to enter the property for the sole purpose of conducting test borings as
outlined in the permit, under the terms and conditions stated therein.
Resolution #140 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the owners of the property located at 204 Hessian Hills Road, known as parcel
68.09-4-38 on the Village Tax Maps, filed a grievance that continued as a Small Claims
Assessment Review (SCAR) proceeding due to extensive damage to their house from a
fallen tree, and
WHEREAS following negotiations, the Village Assessor agreed to reduce the assessed
value of the property from $10,500 to $7,860, and
WHEREAS based on the current tax rate of $286.061, a refund of $755.20 is warranted,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized and
directed to issue a tax refund in the amount of $755.20 to the appropriate party, in
accordance with the settlement agreement outlined in the memo from the Village
Assessor dated June 17, 2024.
Resolution #141 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson intends to apply for Community Development
Block Grant (CDBG) funding from Westchester County for the 2024-2025 funding cycle,
and
WHEREAS the Village will be submitting the following projects for consideration: the
installation of a sidewalk along the north side of Municipal Place between Maple Street
and South Riverside Avenue, the installation of a sidewalk along South Riverside Avenue
between Municipal Place and Maple Street, and the construction of a water main loop
between Grand Street and Beekman Avenue, and
WHEREAS as part of the application process, the Village must hold a public hearing to
discuss the merits of these projects,

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 19

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on Wednesday, July 24, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building, to consider the merits of
the projects included in the Village’s CDBG application.
Resolution #142 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Climate Smart Community (CSC) Program is a New York State program
that helps local governments take action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt
to a changing climate, and
WHEREAS on September 24, 2020, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was certified as a
silver-level Climate Smart Community, the highest available ranking, and is currently one
of ten silver-level communities in New York State, and
WHEREAS on February 7, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees allocated $10,000 to fund a
part-time position to help with the re-certification process, and
WHEREAS the recertification process was not completed by the end of the fiscal year,
when the funding lapsed,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $6,000 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
account(s):
A1230.1100 – Manager – Personnel Services Part Time:

$6,000

DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that this is not additional funding, in February the Board
approved $10,000 between February-May of 2024, $4,000 was spent so this is just
reallocating that remaining $6,000 for this Fiscal Year.
Resolution #143 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 20

WHEREAS the last major flood mitigation project at the Croton-Harmon Train Station
parking lot was undertaken in 2009, and
WHEREAS since that time, areas of the parking lot have again become susceptible to tidal
flooding, and
WHEREAS the Village has received a proposal from AKRF, Inc. of White Plains, New York
to provide consulting services for shoreline resiliency and flood mitigation, and
WHEREAS the proposal outlines a detailed scope of work including exposure screening,
vulnerability analysis, development of recommended alternatives, and preparation of a
flood mitigation technical memorandum, and
WHEREAS the proposed consulting services are necessary to evaluate flooding conditions,
identify mitigation alternatives, and provide recommendations to enhance the resiliency
of the Croton-Harmon Train Station Parking Lot against current and projected future sea
level rise conditions, and
WHEREAS the total cost for the proposed consulting services is $38,000, as detailed in
the proposal submitted by AKRF, Inc., and
WHEREAS the Village Board finds that it is in the best interest of the Village to accept the
proposal from AKRF, Inc. and proceed with the consulting services for shoreline resiliency
and flood mitigation,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees authorizes the
Village Manager to accept the proposal from AKRF, Inc. dated May 7, 2024, for Shoreline
Resiliency and Flood Mitigation Consulting Services at the Croton-Harmon Train Station
Parking Lot in a total amount not to exceed $38,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this expense is available in the following
capital project account: H5650.2107.25490.
Resolution #144 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was certified this year as one of 20 ProHousing Communities in New York State, and

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 21

WHEREAS since that initial announcement, a total of 41 additional communities have
received the Pro-Housing Communities designation, and
WHEREAS a new grant program has been announced which is limited to Pro-Housing
Communities through Empire State Development, and
WHEREAS the Village is interested in applying for funding from this program for
streetscape improvements along North Riverside Avenue and Brook Street, and
WHEREAS C.T. Male Associates of Latham, New York, has prepared a proposal for grant
application preparation services in the amount of $5,000,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby accepts the
proposal from C.T. Male Associates in an amount not to exceed $5,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this expense is available in the following
account: A1230.4000 (Manager – Contractual).
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, complained about
cars parking all day long, seven days a week along his street, as well as
other residential streets in the Harmon area, this is a residential
neighborhood, we have asked the Board to institute a Residential Parking
Permit System for the entire one family residential zone, yet the Board has
refused.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that Croton’s
density is much higher when you consider of the 10.75 square miles with a
population of approximately 8,300 people, 6.06 square miles is in water and
the question is, should we be looking to provide housing for people looking to
more here from other areas. Mr. Riely also objected to transgender flags
being flown on various State and Court buildings in Albany.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
June 12, 2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
10. QUARTERLY REPORTS:
Recreation Department

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 22

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/559bff6f761a9b0d296a84aed2b46bf4fa8d68f0.pdf
Engineering Department
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/6b0b7115b3280fbbda8c6b8f33404047e84b4e5c.pdf
Justice Court
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/7aa0a62af1773ce2628841ff61acf901f52caab6.pdf
Parking
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/2b7cb4c941fcc9634c0823b5b91e594bded12a8b.pdf
Manager’s Report
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/f8ca57f7751b8d5f582d0e584848a68236a10f04.pdf
Clerk’s Office
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/90e9352b3073e9e81f56bbb578e4aff03b60e95b.pdf
DPW
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/47242beed30242d34c94bcfcef1c583ffa5fc294.pdf
Finance Department
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/e2234015f0737c1d11535c56645d6995b7a4b8eb.pdf
Police Department
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202406/7e222bcd21d62a692af181fc46e10b9a1d6bf82b.pdf
11. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson thanked the Recreation Department for their fast thinking
and cancelling the concert last Friday night, the shuttle bus schedule for the
rescheduled concert this coming Friday is available on-line.
Trustee Simon advised that on June 13th the HEART Committee held its first
official meeting, last Saturday Shoprite presented the American Legion FoxEklof Post with $5,000 in recognition of their good work, on June 19th the

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 23

Bennett Conservatory of Music and the IDEA committee held a wonderful
Juneteenth event, attended the following: Municipal Officials Association’s
Executive Committee meeting, Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee meeting on
June 20th, Sustainability Committee meeting on Sunday, Fire Council meeting
last night, and sat in on a webinar hosted by NYCOM that talked about
“Forever Chemicals” that are in our water.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he is willing to do more work on the
Telecommunications Law to try to find some commonality, but he is reluctant
in the future to take further advice from Telecommunications Advisory
Committee since he and Trustee Simon virtually agreed to every suggestion
they made. Trustee Murtaugh referred to the comments regarding the
parking situation on Young Avenue, he lives on Young Avenue, on the block
that adopted the Residential Permit Parking system, and it has solved quite
effectively the people who overstay their welcome and emphasized that this
was a choice of behalf of those residents to not participate in the Residential
Parking Permit Program, but he is happy to revisit this for Hastings and
Young Avenues.
Mayor Pugh congratulated Aaron Lewis on attaining his Eagle Scout Court of
Honor by completing a Memorial Bench at the Arboretum. Mayor Pugh
congratulated Village Manager Healy on his election as President of the
Municipal Administrators Association."
Village Manager Healy thanked the Department of Public Works and
Recreation Department for their help in getting Silver Lake up and running in
advance of the heat wave, thanked the Department of Public Works for doing
some last minute additional work for the Juneteenth celebration as well as
the Fire Department for being our auxiliary cooling center, the Grand Street
wall project work is progressing well, the Village of Croton has joined a Class
Action Lawsuit regarding the PFAS (Per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances) contamination
and we are hoping to use those funds to make any adjustments that are
necessary so that we are in compliance, stated that he is not opposed to
having a discussion regarding a Residential Parking Permit System in the
Young Avenue area and we can certainly send out another letter to residents
in that area.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Murtaugh. The motion was seconded by

Village Board of Trustees
June 26, 2024
Page 24

Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at
10:15pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk


