VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
THURSDAY, MARCH 21, 2024

PRESENT:

Christine Wagner, Chairperson
James Tuman
Daron Weber
Doug Olcott

ABSENT:

Rocco Mastronardi

ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, Assistant Engineer P.E.
Mayor Pugh, Village Trustee Liaison

1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting to order at 8:05 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS:
a) Dino Tsagarakis, Agent for Rakis Inc –215 South Riverside Ave-Located in a RA-5

Residential District and C-2 General Commercial Zoning District and designated on the Tax
Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot 52, 53, and 54. Request
for renewal of two Special Permits under Village Zoning Code Section 230-51(C) and Code
Section 230-52(B) for an existing parking lot (Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot 52) on Bungalow
Road.

PRESENT: Dino Tsagarakis, Agent for Rakis Inc.

Mr. Tsagarakis began by introducing himself to the Board as the representative for the Croton
Colonial Diner. Mr. Tsagarakis stated that he was present out of protocol for the renewal of the special
permit to allow for commercial parking on a residentially zoned lot and added that he had never attended
a ZBA meeting in the past and was only responsible for the signing of the paperwork. Chairperson
Wagner shared that there had been special permits granted in the past but that some of the current ZBA
members did not serve on the Board in 2015 when the last renewal was granted therefore asking Mr.
Tsagarakis to provide a brief description of why the permit is needed. Mr. Tsagarakis stated he could not
1

recall when the first variance was granted to allow for the parking but believed it may have been granted
in 2009. Mr. Tsagarakis shared the lot was originally gravel and dirt and it was later paved.
Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer provided a brief overview of the application for the Board stating
that that the property where the Croton Colonial Diner is located consisted of 3 parcels. Two of the 3 lots
are in the C-2 Commercial zoned areas and the rear parcel is in a residential zone that does not allow for
commercial parking without a special permit, therefore the Zoning Board of Appeals must renew the
special permit to allow for the lot to be continued to be used for commercial parking. The Board then
asked Mr. Wegner what the special conditions were for the previously granted special permits. Mr.
Wegner explained there were discussions regarding 6 Hudson Street, elaborating that there was an attempt
to develop and use the parcel for parking in the past that brought about the first 2 special conditions which
were that (1) the applicant shall maintain the lawn area of the unimproved parcel at 6 Hudson Street and
continue its maintenance until such time as a residence is constructed or the property is sold and (2) The
residential lot at 6 Hudson Street shall not be used for parking incidental to commercial use of the Diner
(215 S. Riverside Avenue) or other businesses, thereby maintaining its residential status. Mr. Wegner
stated that there was an additional condition that stated the vegetation must be properly maintained and
trimmed as well as the sight distance when making a left turn out of the lot must be maintained and that 6
Hudson Street lot be maintained without violation.
The Board then asked if there was ever a pursuit to rezone that area for the commercial parking. Mr.
Tsagarakis responded by sharing that the lot was once flooded and it was not worth the time or resources
to rezone the lot. Furthermore, Mr. Tsagarakis explained that it would force the dumpsters towards the
rear of the property which would be undesirable. Mr. Wegner added that the lot is viable as a residential
lot (for future use). The Board asked if there were any known complaints about the use of the residential
lot for parking. Mr. Wegner shared that he was not aware of any complaints. Mr. Tsagarakis stated that
in the past there was an issue with erosion which had caused some complaints but the issue was corrected
immediately. Mr. Olcott provided a brief history on the parcel as he served on the Board when the
previous special permit renewal was granted. Mr. Olcott shared that at the time, there were complaints so
the Board added the special condition that prohibited parking on the grassy area.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the meeting to the public. Hearing no comment from the public, the
hearing was closed.
The Board then discussed and agreed they would not feel comfortable granting a permanent special
permit however they were in support of a permit renewal for a 10-year period in which Chairperson
Wagner proposed be back dated to 10/14/20 and would expire on 10/14/30.
The Board then reviewed and discussed the draft resolution (see attached for resolution).

MOTION: A motion was made by Mr. Olcott to grant the renewal of the Special Permit under Code
Section 230-51(C) and Code Section 230-52(B) for the existing parking lot (Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot
52) on Bungalow Road for a term of 10 years until 10/14/2030 with the conditions set forth
below. Chairperson Wagner seconded the motion.
Vote 4 to 0; Chairperson Wagner, Mr. Olcott,
Mr. Tuman, Mr. Weber all voting in Favor. (Mr. Mastronardi, absent)

2

b) Stephen & Amy Cappelli, Owners —12 Observatory Drive—Located in a RA-9 Residential

District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9
Block 7 Lot 8. Request for a front yard variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-33A for
a 2 -story addition.
nd

PRESENT: Stephen Cappelli, owner
Matt Carroll, contractor

Mr. Carroll introduced himself to the Board as the owner of Customworks Construction was hired
to do the proposed work on 12 Observatory Drive. Mr. Cappelli introduced himself as the owner
of the property. Mr. Carroll stated that they were requesting a front yard variance of 1.5’ft to add
a mudroom and portico. It was clarified that while the applicants are planning to build a second
story addition, the variance would specifically allow for the front portico.
Mr. Wegner stated that there is a 20.5’ft required setback and referenced the submitted plans
showing the floor plan of the house, showing the location of the 10’ft foyer and where the
proposed portico would be. Mr. Wegner stated the portico would only be about 3’ft deep and 10’ft
wide. Mr. Wegner explained that if the portico was built to be 8’ft wide they would not need the
front yard variance. The Board asked the applicants the reason for 10’ft and not 8’ft. The
applicants stated it was allow for a little extra space and for aesthetic reasons.
Mr. Wegner shared that the house was originally granted a side yard setback variance to allow for
the house to be built (1941) closer to the side yard but with the existing small lot regulations the
applicant does need a side yard variance.
Chairperson Wagner opened the meeting to the public. With no one being hears, the public
meeting was closed.

The Board discussed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board discussed and agreed that there are many homes around Observatory Drive that
have porticos and front porches and felt that the proposed design would fit nicely in the
neighborhood and be an improvement.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance; but would not be as aesthetically pleasing.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
The Board agreed that it was a minor variance request and the difference between 10’ft vs.
8’ft is due to a design factor.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
3

5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a front yard variance of 1.5’ft for a portico . Seconded
by Mr. Olcott. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. All in Favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes,
Mr. Olcott, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes (Mr. Mastronardi, absent).

3. APPROVAL OF MEETING MINUTES

Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the February 8, 2024 minutes. Seconded
by Mr. Weber. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. All in Favor. (Mr. Mastronardi,
absent, Mr. Olcott, abstained).
4. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was duly adjourned at 8:24pm.

Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie Correale
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

(3/21/24 ZBA Minutes Attachment)

4

RESOLUTION
Dino Tsagarakis, Agent for Rakis Inc., has applied to the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Croton on
Hudson, for the renewal of a Special Permit under Code Section 230-51(C) and Code Section 230-52(B) for the
existing parking lot (Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot 52) on Bungalow Road.
WHEREAS, the property, at 215 S. Riverside Ave & Bungalow Road, is located in a RA-5 and a C-2 District and
is designated on the Tax Maps of the Village as Section 79.9 Block 1 Lots 52,53, and 54;
WHEREAS, renewal of a special permit is a Type II action under Chapter 116 of the Village Code;
WHEREAS, the ZBA previously granted time-limited special permits to this applicant for these and contiguous
parcels also owned by the applicant for, inter alia, parking in properties zoned residential, all of which expired on
10/14/2020.
WHEREAS, the Applicant has complied with all the conditions set forth in the last permit renewal granted by ZBA
Resolution dated 10/14/2015; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing having been held after due notice, the ZBA has reviewed the application viewed the
premises and neighborhood concerned, and heard testimony from the Applicant;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the application is hereby GRANTED as follows:
Motion: A motion was made by Mr. Olcott to grant the renewal of the Special Permit under Code Section 230-51(C)
and Code Section 230-52(B) for the existing parking lot (Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot 52) on Bungalow Road for a
term of 10 years until 10/14/2030 with the conditions set forth below.
Second: Chairperson Wagner seconded the motion.
Vote 4 to 0; Chairperson Wagner, Mr. Olcott, Mr. Tuman, Mr. Weber all voting in Favor. (Mr. Mastronardi, absent)

Conditions:
1.

Applicant shall maintain the lawn area of the unimproved parcel at 6 Hudson Street and continue its
maintenance until such time as a residence is constructed or the property is sold.

2.

The residential lot at 6 Hudson Street shall not be used for parking incidental to commercial use of the
Diner (215 S. Riverside Avenue) or other businesses, thereby maintaining its residential status.

3.

The special permit granted herein shall be renewable upon the expiration of this resolution with the
condition that the 6 Hudson Street lot be maintained without violation.

4.

The vegetation in the area behind the curb on Bungalow Road, for a distance of approximately 70 feet east
of the entrance to the parking lot, shall be cut regularly to provide clear sight distance for vehicles exiting
the lot onto Bungalow Road.

Date 3/21/24

5


