Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, April 24, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Simon

1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23245494 through 23245687. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$162,154.80
$26,704.80
$2,615.85
$89,031.13
-

3.

RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL – none.

4.

CORRESPONDENCE – none.

5.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved suspending the Rules
of Procedure to allow representatives from the WBP Development of
Chappaqua, New York, to do a presentation. To view the presentation, you
may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/954 (section 00.08.16)
Public Comments on Agenda Items resumed:
Jamie Black, resident of the Town of Ossining, stated that she represents
neighbors opposing noise generated by Metro North and presented the

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 2

Board with documentation backing up some of their claims regarding health
issues.
Laurie Holler, resident of the Village of Ossining, also addressed her
concerns regarding the noise generated from Metro North and its affects on
the quality of life for her and her neighbors.
Matthew Schuerman, 53 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, spoke in
support of the proposed sale of Lot A and the proposed housing
development and its positive effect on taxes and our local businesses.
Matt Arnold, 51 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, commended the
Board for pursuing this project, it maximizes an unused piece of property
and is a step towards addressing the housing shortage.
David Becker, 11 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that Metro
North runs their diesel engines 24/7 and encouraged the Board to get
involved with addressing noise and air-pollution, he is also concerned that
we will be adding more residents in close proximity to the MTA facility and
draining our resources and asked the Board to put a pause on building more
housing.
Dave Rooney, 8 Arlington Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
understands there is a housing crisis in this country, and acknowledges that
we need to build something, and addressed a 2019 survey that indicated
that sixty-eight percent of people responding would not be interested in
more apartments or town houses. Mr. Rooney stated that he believes we are
fulfilling our housing requirement and asked what the community can do to
stop this development.
Adam Decker, 13 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, and member of the
Housing Task Force, stated that the overwhelming number of applicants for
the Maple Street project is a clear indication that we have a housing crisis,
the Village has done the research, and we can handle this development and
supports this proposal.
Nance Shatzkin, 132 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, and member
of the Croton Housing Network stated that she is proud of what Croton has
done and thanked the Board and community for addressing the housing
issue in Croton, if we have planned growth and we welcome new neighbors

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 3

we will be a better community and thanked the community for addressing
these challenges.
Carol Shanesy, 47 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
supports this development and believes that people from all levels of society
make for a healthier community.
Adam Shapiro, 37 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that building
housing near a transit hub is environmentally friendly and makes for a
walkable community, this is an opportunity to put this property back on the
tax roll and supports this project.
Ralph Croteau, 12 Bank Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is not
against housing but believes the Board is moving too quickly, we already
have a bunch of projects started, and believes we are going to put added
stress on our Fire and Police Departments as well water pressure and
sewerage and asked the Board to slow down, and wait until the other
projects are completed to see how these are working.
John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes
the sale of public property is subject to a permissive referendum and would
like to see this on the next Village election so that people have the
opportunity to decide what would be in their best interest.
Lauren Davis, 14 Hamilton Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
understands that we need more affordable housing but is concerned with
the impact on the environment and agrees that the community should have
a vote. Ms. Davis asked if the developer receives any tax breaks.
Sarah Boyce, 140 Benedict Blvd., Croton on Hudson, stated that everyone
keeps saying that development in Croton is going to provide much needed
affordable housing for Croton residents, but Croton residents only have a
.03 percent chance of getting picked for those units because this is done by
lottery and open to everyone. Ms. Boyce stated that she does not
understand the hurry and asked that the Board slow down and give the
citizens of Croton an opportunity to weigh in on these decisions.
Cristina Alverez Arnold, 51 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated
that the fact that the Maple Street project generated more than 5,000
applicants indicates that we have a housing issue. Ms. Arnold stated that
this project will not be displacing trees, it is an underutilized empty lot that

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 4

will generate taxes and is environmentally smart because of its close
proximity to transportation. Ms. Arnold stated that we have been told that
our schools can handle more students, and while she understands the noise
issues and it is something we should address, making this a residential
desert is not the way to go.
Ed Riley, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that this is not an
attractive building and should not be more than three stories high. Mr. Riley
stated that the Village of Croton should not be responsible for fixing the
housing crises, and not to lead residents to believe that their family will get
this housing, it is done by a lottery system and asked the Board to take care
of Croton first.
EJ Campbell, Morningside Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
concerned with what seems like the fast and furious addition of multi-family
housing in our small Village, and was shocked to see that the Village is
about to approve another ninety-five units before understanding the impacts
of the multi-family housing development that is about to open, she is
concerned about the safety and quality of life for Croton residents.
Greg Maher, 44 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that there is a
seven million housing unit shortfall in the United States and applauds Croton
for doing their part, but he has heard a lot of issues addressed this evening
and encouraged the Board to continue down a fact-based gathering route,
and to move forward at an appropriate speed because it is a lot of units in a
brief period of time.
Evan Perdomo-Cohen, Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, owns the
business that is across from the proposed new development. Mr. Cohen
stated that he does know if he will survive the four years it will take for this
development to come to fruition and believes that putting more people in
Croton when we have the capacity will help small businesses and providing a
more vibrant use for that piece of property is good for everyone.
Tony Granger, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes
that the housing crises is manufactured and is all under a bigger umbrella
and asked the Board to do their homework with respect to this developer.
Comments received via email:

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 5

Jessica Dieckman, 58 Thompson Avenue, Croton on Hudson states that she
prefers Lot A be reserved for commuter parking, believes we are moving too
fast and is concerned about the effect on our schools, and roads and is also
concerned about the flooding in this area.
Christopher Mari, 69 Elmore Avenue, Croton on Hudson, expressed his
concern about the overdevelopment in Croton and does not understand why
every parcel is being replaced with a housing development and not
additional green space for Croton.
Colleen Beyrer, 19 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked that any tax
breaks to the developer be taken off the table and asked if the schools are
at their capacity.
Holly Crosbie-Foote, 116 Benedict Blvd., Croton on Hudson, states that she
believes the $2.3 million price seems low for a real estate sale at the train
station, especially when a five story, fifty-five-unit complex is being
proposed.
Dylan Basescu, 65 Radnor Avenue, Croton on Hudson, writes that he
supports the sale of Lot A for residential development.
Richard Olver, 42 Whelan Avenue, Croton on Hudson, writes that he
applauds the Board’s visionary work in facilitating the possible development
on Croton Point Avenue, it is an ideal application of the principles of transitoriented development that addresses New York State’s dire housing crises.
Ken Sargeant, 193 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, congratulated the
Board on bringing this housing initiative to fruition, the most thriving
Hudson River towns have a dynamic epicenter that is near the train station
and believes it will provide stimulus to the surrounding businesses.
Michael Eisenkraft, 30 Finney Farm Road, Croton on Hudson, writes that he
supports selling Lot A for housing, because it is within walking distance to
the train station, stores, and parkland and is an ideal location for housing.
6. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #79-2024

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 6

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
BUDGET ADOPTION RESOLUTION
A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR COMMENCING ON JUNE 1,
2024, AND ENDING MAY 31, 2025, MAKING APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE CONDUCT OF
THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON GOVERNMENT AND ESTABLISHING THE RATES
OF COMPENSATION FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES FOR SUCH PERIOD.
WHEREAS this Board has met at the time and place specified in the notice of public
hearing on the preliminary budget and heard all persons desiring to be heard thereon,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the preliminary budget as amended and revised
and as hereinafter set forth is hereby adopted and that the several amounts stated in
column titled “Adopted” in Schedule,
A1 - General Fund,
F1 - Water Fund,
G1 - Sewer Fund,
HN1 – Capital Fund,
7 - Debt Service,
be adopted and hereby are appropriated for the objects and purposes specified and the
salaries and wages stated in Schedule 5 of such budget shall be and are hereby fixed at
the amounts shown therein effective June 1, 2024.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that after some additional review during our last Budget
work session, we increased the revenue for daily parking permits by $1,000 per month,
raised the expected revenue from Interest and Earnings, and through the State Budget
the Village received a slight increase in our municipal funding which allowed us to bring
the tax rate increase down to 2.74 percent which is slightly lower than when we started
the Budget process in March.
Trustee Simon commended the Manager and Treasurer as well as the individual
departments for their hard work, he believes this is a good Budget which includes

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 7

enhancing our Department of Public Works by adding an additional Foreman which will
accelerate the rate in which we can undertake specific projects to improve our
infrastructure, increasing the pensions for our Volunteer Fire Department, and putting an
additional officer on the streets at the recommendation of our Police Chief that will
enhance public safety.
Trustee Politi stated that she appreciates all the work that our volunteers do for Croton
and is happy that we were happy to provide funding to many of these volunteer
committees.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he is glad that we dipped more into our Fund Balance for
the Capital Budget, which will avoid borrowing costs in the future.
Village Manager Healy stated that we are using $70,000 more from the Fund Balance for
a Flood Mitigation Study as well as replacing the current Messaging Board at the train
station. Village Manager Healy explained that we also used funds from the sale of the
Maple Street property to purchase a new Ladder Truck for the Fire Department which is
saving the Village approximately $750,000 to $900,000 in interest fees.
Trustee Politi stated that this is an example of how the money that comes in from the
sale of these properties comes back to the Village.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that while we did not have a zero percent increase, this is a
reasonable increase. Trustee Murtaugh stated that he is pleased that one of the
recommendations that came out of our meeting with residents of the Truesdale/Nordica
Drive corridor, was to hire a Park Ranger, which has been included in the 2024 Budget,
and should help towards eliminating some of the trespassing issues residents in this area
have experienced.
Trustee Nicholson thanked the staff for all their hard work, it was important for the Board
to address some of the recommendations we received from our Department Heads and is
pleased that we are also able to fund some innovative programming that will be coming
out of our committees as well.
Mayor Pugh thanked the Manager and Treasurer for giving us a budget that is over
$100,000 under the Tax Cap and is happy that we were able to provide things that will
continue to make Croton a better place to live.
Resolution 80-2024

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 8

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
BE IT RESOLVED, the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to place the following past
due receivables from fiscal year 2023-2024 for the general fund on the tax bills for the
fiscal year June 1, 2024, through May 31, 2025:
GENERAL FUND
ALARM FEES

$ 2,650.00

COMMERCIAL GARBAGE
SNOW REMOVAL
TOTAL

$ 5,200.00
$1,021.25
$8,871.25

WATER and SEWER FUNDS
UNPAID WATER AND SEWER CHARGES

$ 82,871.25

Resolution #81-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting held
on October 7, 2003, and
WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village fees through Board Resolutions,
and
WHEREAS it is to the benefit of both the Village and the general public to have all fees
conveniently placed in one schedule, which may be amended from time to time, and
WHEREAS a Master Fee Schedule was adopted on October 7, 2003, and has since been
modified a number of times,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
attached updated Master Fee Schedule effective June 1, 2024.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 9

Master Fee Schedule:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202404/c0e4fccb70616e6138a0d1a6568cce2e13c1b969.pdf
Resolution #82-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 5–0 vote.
BE IT RESOLVED that the Mayor is hereby authorized to sign the Tax Warrant for the
collection of taxes for the period beginning June 1, 2023, through May 31, 2024
TAX WARRANT
TO: Daniel Tucker, Treasurer
YOU ARE HEREBY COMMANDED to receive and collect from the persons named in the tax
roll hereunto annexed, the several sums stated in the last column hereof opposite their
respective names, being a total of $13,333,292.74.
For the current budget
For Supplemental Tax Bills
Sub-total

$13,237,307
$4,310
$ 13,241,617

For Unpaid Water Rents and Charges

$82,804.49

For Alarms

$ 2,650.00

For Commercial Garbage

$5,200.00

Snow Removal

$1,021.25

TOTAL

$13,333,292.74

Resolution #83 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 10

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson charges fees for parking at the CrotonHarmon train station, and
WHEREAS the Village has generated a surplus in revenue from parking permit fees
beyond the budgeted amount for Fiscal Year 2024, and
WHEREAS a portion of the parking lot requires maintenance, specifically to address water
collection issues in sections H and I, leading to commuter inconvenience and safety
hazards, and
WHEREAS milling and resurfacing these low-lying areas will mitigate water collection and
restore proper drainage, aligning with the original design intent of the parking lot, and
WHEREAS the construction estimate for this repair is $88,000, covering milling,
resurfacing, weekend work differential costs, and asphalt plant operation fees, and
WHEREAS such work will be done under a pre-existing paving contract with a piggyback
clause,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following amendment to the 2023-2024 General Fund budget as follows:
GENERAL FUND REVENUE
Increase
A5650.1720
Parking Lot Permits

$88,000

GENERAL FUND EXPENSE
Increase
A5650.4000
Parking Contractual

$88,000

Resolution #84 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the parking lot at Croton Landing Park is insufficient to accommodate the
number of vehicles wishing to use the park, and
WHEREAS the Village has explored various options for remedying this problem, including
leasing land from CSX Railroad and expanding the parking lot, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 11

WHEREAS the Recreation Advisory Committee has advised the Village Board that it would
prefer to see the current parking lot expanded, and
WHEREAS due to planning constraints, the work will not be able to be completed before
the end of the fiscal year in May, and
WHEREAS the funding currently in the operating budget must be transferred to the
Capital Fund,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following amendment to the 2023-2024 General Fund and Capital Fund budgets as follows:
GENERAL FUND REVENUE
Increase
A1000.4960

FEMA

$30,000

CAPITAL FUND EXPENSE
Increase
H5110.2106.24462

Infrastructure General Road Repair

$30,000

Resolution #85 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Department of Public Works currently utilizes a 1990 International 10wheel dump truck for daily operations, and
WHEREAS this vehicle has reached the end of its useful life and must be replaced, and
WHEREAS the proposed Capital Plan for the 2024-2025 fiscal year includes the purchase
of a new, large dump truck for the Department of Public Works, and
WHEREAS allocating operating funds to capital projects reduces the need for issuing debt,
and
WHEREAS the Village has utilized a smaller amount of rock salt than originally budgeted
for in Fiscal Year 2024, and would like to utilize the surplus funds for the purchase of the
new dump truck, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 12

WHEREAS a portion of the purchase price for the new dump truck vehicle will be offset
with funds received from recently auctioned surplus equipment,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following amendment to the 2023-2024 General Fund and Capital Fund budgets:
GENERAL FUND EXPENSE
Decrease
A5142.4200

Snow Supplies

$25,000

GENERAL FUND REVENUE
Increase
A1000.2665

Sales of Equipment

$43,000

CAPITAL FUND EXPENSE
Increase
H5110.2010.24467 DPW Equipment

$68,000

Resolution #86 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has owned the parcel known as Parking Lot A
(“the Property”) since the 1960s, when it was purchased from the New York Central
Railroad, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has determined the Property is not needed for municipal
purposes, and
WHEREAS the Property is located in the Light Industrial (LI) Zoning District, allowing for
a variety of light industrial, commercial and multi-family residential uses, and
WHEREAS, beginning in 2021, the Village Board of Trustees planned for, and ultimately
began, a rezoning study of the South Riverside Avenue corridor and Harmon Gateway,
and
WHEREAS on November 1, 2022, the Village Board adopted Local Law 14 of 2022, which
amended certain zoning provisions for the Light Industrial Zoning District to permit
transit-oriented development consisting of mixed use or multi-family residential buildings
on certain lots fronting on Croton Point Avenue on the west side of Route 9 and within
1500 feet of the Metro-North Croton-Harmon Train Station, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 13

WHEREAS the amended zoning provisions allow for an all-residential building at the
Property with a maximum floor area ratio of 1.2, maximum building height of five stories
and a unit mix of studios, one-bedrooms and two-bedrooms, and
WHEREAS in December 2022, AKRF Inc. was hired to prepare a Request for Proposals
(RFP) for the purchase and development of the Property, and
WHEREAS a resident advisory task force was formed by the Mayor to provide the Board
with input and feedback on the RFP, as well as any of the proposals received by the
Village, and
WHEREAS the RFP was issued by the Village on July 24, 2023, with an initial return date
of November 1, 2023; and
WHEREAS, the Village ultimately extended the return date of the RFP to November 15,
2023 ,and
WHEREAS the RFP included provisions reserving a minimum of 20% of the units for
affordable housing and that a project labor agreement be negotiated with the Building &
Construction Trades Council of Westchester and Putnam Counties, and
WHEREAS the Village received two proposals by November 15, 2023, which were sent to
the task force for review and comment, and
WHEREAS after reviewing the report generated by the task force, the Village Board
invited the two proposers to present their proposals to the Village Board, and
WHEREAS the Village Board met with each of the proposers, reviewed the proposals, the
qualifications submitted by the proposers and their experience developing similar
projects, and their financial qualifications, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has decided to move forward with the transaction with WBP
Development LLC of Chappaqua, New York,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby chooses WBP
Development LLC as the proposed purchaser and developer of the Property and directs
the Village Attorney to draft and negotiate the legal terms of a contract with WBP
Development LLC, in accordance with the terms of the Village’s July 24, 2023, RFP, the
WBP Development LLC Proposal and the attached term sheet, for consideration by the
Village Board, it being understood that the Village will be under no binding obligation to
WBP Development LLC unless and until the Village has executed a written contract with
WBP Development LLC.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 14

Term Sheet:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202404/ea282487b39a531525d642c2c82095229e6a2d0d.pdf
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead responded to a comment that the sale of Village property
would be subject to a Permissive Referendum and explained that this provision applies to
Towns and not Villages, Villages can sell properties without the Permissive Referendum
requirement, the Village just needs to declare that the property is excess and not needed
for Village purposes and that it is sold for a fair price.
Village Manager Healy advised that the property was appraised, and the appraisal came
in close to the purchase price and we believe it is a very fair price.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that the Board had already performed a SEQRA
review process (State Environmental Review Act) when they did the Zoning Amendment
which looked at a number of impacts, in addition the project will also undergo a SEQRA
review as well as a review by the Planning Board.
Village Manager Healy addressed some of the concerns expressed regarding water and
sewer capacity and stated that the village is not anywhere near meeting its capacity for
water or sewer, the Village of Croton does not have a sewer treatment plant, the
treatment of sewerage is a Westchester County operation.
Trustee Simon thanked everyone for coming out to share their comments and
emphasized how Covid has changed parking. Trustee Simon stated that we have been
working on this over the last four years, working with many in our community as well as
our Housing Task Force who oversaw the RFP (Request for Proposal) process and the
next stage will be closing on the property and working on the design, he is very excited
about the potential of this property and looks forward to the next steps.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that this has been a lengthy process, and that vacant lot will
now contribute to tax revenues for the village. Trustee Murtaugh stated that there will be
more than adequate parking for those that continue to commute to the city.
Trustee Politi stated that she would like to pursue the noise issues, but we need housing,
and she cannot think of a better place than to put a housing development on a parking
lot that is no longer used. Trustee Politi stated that our Planning Board will certainly
address the concerns that were brought up and emphasized that our schools and services
can handle this project, and while it is a lottery system, someone’s grandma will be able
to live here.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 15

Trustee Nicholson thanked everyone who came out this evening, and emphasized that
projects go through extensive reviews and this particular project has been looked at over
the last four years, and it was determined that at this juncture, the property should be
sold, and housing should be built on it and the funds from the sale of that property will
help us to address some of the flooding issues at the train station parking lot.
Mayor Pugh stated that he is a believer in strategic growth, our Village is far from full,
Croton’s population density is one of the least densely populated communities in
Westchester, enrollment in our schools has been trending downward since 2010, and the
comment of why rush, there is no rush, we have a long standing Plan in our
Comprehensive Plan with respect to affordable housing, in 2019 following the release of
the Westchester County Housing Needs Assessment it found that Croton had 515
households, most of them renters, spending over half their income on housing costs, this
is an agreement to reach an agreement, and it will include an extensive review and the
public will be kept informed through the entire process.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
David Becker, 11 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that our DPW
staff is amazing, but there is an issue with the Manes Field, after the recent
storms the field was not playable for a week and half, DPW was filling many
of the potholes, but despite DPW’s best efforts the Board needs to consider a
Capital Infrastructure project at Manes.
Village Manager Healy advised that $50,000 has been allocated in the Budget
starting June 1st, to do improvements at Manes Field.
Sarah Boyce, Benedict Blvd, Croton on Hudson, addressed some of the
recent break-ins in the Village and said that it would have been good to know
where these recent break-ins took place. Ms. Boyce stated that the diesel
trains run all night and she does hear them.
Christina Alverez Arnold, 51 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated
that the American Lung Association has upgraded our zip code to a “C”, from
an “F” just a few years ago, and hopes that the things we are doing will
continue to improve our air-quality.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned
that the Board wants to see large scale housing in Croton, and reminded
everyone that this is a lottery system and there are no guarantees that
Croton residents will get a spot in any of these affordable housing units. Mr.

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 16

Riely stated that if there is a need for seven million housing units in the
United States then we should not have allowed ten million people to enter
our country.
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
April 10, 2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on April 18,
2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9.

REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson stated that this weekend the Yacht Club will be hosting
Hudson River education seminars, an Earth Day celebration will take place on
April 27th from 10am-4pm at Senasqua Park, a Clean 100 Yard Trash
Challenge to celebrate Earth Day will also be held this Sunday, and a
Community Blood Drive will take place on Sunday from 10am-4pm at the
Croton Library.
Trustee Simon stated that National Drug Take Back Day will take place this
Saturday, from 10am-2pm at Croton Commons, the Croton Rotary planted a
new Dogwood sapling this past Sunday, had the honor to attend the Cub
Scout Arrow of Light Ceremony, last Thursday attended the Westchester
Municipal Officials Association dinner where the Executive Director of
Sustainable Westchester addressed the group, received a briefing in Ossining
on the progress on their Bike Share Program, and he and Trustee Murtaugh
continued their discussions with members of the Telecommunications
Advisory Committee.
Trustee Murtaugh advised that the Planning Board heard a presentation from
Lindsay Audin on the successes of the Sustainability Committee last week,
the Sustainability Committee has secured, over the course of time, $630,000
in grant funds for the Village with another $125,000 that is in the pipeline, he
is pleased that the Board was able to add a Park Ranger in the upcoming
Budget for the Truesdale/Nordica Drive corridor that will assist in keep people
from trespassing through private property, as well as keeping non-residents
from entering Mayo’s Landing, thanked our Police Department for

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 17

participating in the Drug Take Back Day and giving residents the opportunity
interact with them. Trustee Murtaugh reminded everyone that there was a lot
of acrimony about changing the Zoning in the area of Baked by Susan which
resulted in hundreds of thousands of dollars of legal fees, yet fast forward to
the present, that Zoning has contributed to the growth of businesses and
housing in that area. Trustee Murtaugh encouraged residents to get involved
and to volunteer on one of Croton’s many committees so that they can be
part of the decision-making process.
Trustee Politi encouraged everyone to take the shuttle during the Earth Day
events, May 4th CrotonCon 2024 will take place from 12pm-6pm, May 11th
Big Easy Jazz Festival at Vassallo Park, and the IDEA Committee is working
on Juneteenth celebrations.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Sustainability Committee has gotten the Village
re-certified as a Climate Smart Community which puts the Village in line for
additional State funding to support our renewable energy and sustainability
efforts. Mayor Pugh stated that the Village has a twenty plus year
commitment to affordable housing and he has gone over the evidence that
we have the capacity in our infrastructure to handle the proposed
development, and a 2021 School Enrollment Study forecasted continued
decline in enrollment into 2030. Mayor Pugh invited the community to attend
a Housing Forum on May 1st, at 7pm at the Harmon Fire House which will be
a discussion on policy, not individual projects. Mayor Pugh advised that the
Lorraine
Hansberry
Committee
has
organized
the
“American
Dream/Hansberry Family” conversation on housing segregation on May 4th.
Village Manager Healy stated that the vehicles which were entered were on
Radnor Avenue and in the Harmon area, and emphasized the importance of
locking vehicles because those that had items taken were unlocked.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Politi. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at
10:25pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary

Village Board of Trustees
April 24, 2024
Page 18

___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

