BPC Meeting – Agenda & Minutes
January 18, 2024
Attendees: Matt Arnold, Steven Krisky, Riley Moeller, Kevin Scott, Matthew Schuerman, Daniel Castner,
Adam Shapiro, Amos Bloomberg, Scott Marsh (DPW)
Ex-officio: Len Simon (Trustee Liaison)
Minutes:
November Meeting Minutes approved.
Discussed requirement to complete Village-mandated Harassment training as a prerequisite for
Committee membership.
DPW Updates – upcoming activities:
●

●
●

Gottwalt Circle project:
● New sidewalks/curbs and ramps complete (~$85K).
● Island (slated to start in March)
● Next step is procuring the granite curbing. Estimate ~$32K for granite
and other materials
● Looking to optimize CHIPS funding to cover
● Repainting of bicycle symbols on roadways to be freshened in
● Piney Point, Hill and Elkloff roads repaved (~$192K)
● Repaving full stretch of Cleveland - from southern end, through Five Corners, to Jacoby –
in 2024
● Draining – problem grates – will be repaired over the winter (prior to repaving)
● New sidewalk proposed from Library to Gerstein – to be funded by the TAP grant (if
awarded).
● Exact placement TBD. Committee recommendations to position sidewalk
extension on east side of the street. Consensus on whichever solution provides
the most safety (to be determined by the Engineer).
● Paving to precede sidewalk installation due to grant/funding timing
● Repainting of bicycle symbols on roadways to be freshened in Spring
● Flashing pedestrian/crosswalk signs to Wood and Maple to be installed – pending
NYDOT sign-off
● Completed: Piney Point, Hill and Elkloff roads repaved
Question re: pedestrian and bicycling striping options for ramp into ShopRite plaza – as raised at
the Planning Board. “Fog lines”
12 ft travel lane as a minimum. Village does not own any of the shopping center

TAP Grant:
●
●
●

Grant proposal completed by grant writer and submitted/filed (Jan 9th)
Len to share copies of the submission document (107 pages)
Cost
● $1.45M total (20% – ~$290K – to be provided by the Village as co-pay):

●
●
●

● Sidewalk - 409K
● Curbing 232K
● 87K ramps
● 100K catch basis
● 905K total + 95K for inspections + $100K design, etc.
Broad letters of support – e.g., BPC, Sustainability, PD, Library, Schools, HV Gateway Chamber,
local representatives
Croton designated as a “pro-housing” community, which is an advantage
Expecting award info in 3-5 months

2024 Priorities:
●

Initial thoughts:
● “Cleveland Corridor” – see to completion
● Dummy Light/Upper Village intersection plan and endorsements (Board and community
buy-in)
● Option 4 (flashing light w/ 4-way stop signs, enhanced curbing)
● Push for “refreshed” study
● Board emphasis this year on addressing
● Matthew to recirculate the original traffic study
● Members to send key ideas/items over the coming weeks and we will discuss and narrow
down priorities at next meeting in February

