WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, November 8th, 2023 4:00 p.m. 7
Small Conference Room Vv [PP ROVED

PRESENT Ann Gallelli, Chairperson
Stuart Greenbaum
Steve Krisky
Len Simon
Leo Wiegman
ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer

1) CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Gallelli called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of Nov. 8, 2023 to order at 4:09 pm.

2) REFERRALS
a) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 21 of 2023.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and one member thought that the word
revised should be changed to expand.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and one WAC member thought that under
the Brief Description of Proposed Action: The proposed action is a local law to amend and update the
section of the Zoning chapter of the code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to revise the regulations for
accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages, the word revise should be changed to expand.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo
attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency.

MOTION: Len Simon made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Steven Krisky,
and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES: Len Simon made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of
October 24th, 2023, as amended, seconded by Stuart Greenbaum, and the motion carried by 5-0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, Leo Wiegman made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Ann Gallelli, and
the meeting was adjourned at 4:42p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

*“Minutes approved on 1/3/24 by a vote of 3-0 with Steve Krisky absent and lan Murtaugh abstaining**

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


Chairman
ANN GALLELLI

Members

STUART GREENBAUM
STEVE KRISKY

Croton-on-Hudson LEN SIMON
LEO WEIGMAN

Attorney
Waterfront Advisory Committee LINDA WHITEHEAD

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building Village Engineer
One Van Wyck Street DANIEL O'CONNOR, P-E.

Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501 Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

Village of

TO: Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees
FROM: Chairman Gallelli, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE: Referral from Village Board for LWRP Consistency Review regarding Local Law
Introductory 21 of 2023 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning

DATE: November 17th, 2023

On November 8th, 2023, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) a referral from the Village Board listed above.
Based on the Committee’s review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a
recommendation of consistency with the LWRP. The vote was all in favor.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changers were noted.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and one WAC member thought that under
the Brief Description of Proposed Action: The proposed action is a local law to amend and update the
section of the Zoning chapter of the code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to revise the regulations for
accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages, the word revise should be changed to expand.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies were relevant:

POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted goals and
policies.

POLICY 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are adequate, except when such development hs special functional
requirements or other characteristics which necessitate its location in other coastal areas.

POLICY 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the current
service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proxmity to areas where distribution
lines currently exist.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790
