WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, August 28th, 2024 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT Len Simon, Chairperson

Sheet Ghaenbiae VV} APPROVED

Steve Krisky
lan W. Murtaugh
Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
1) CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Simon called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of August 28th, 2024 to order at 4:36

p.m.
2) REFERRALS
a) Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency review for draft Local law Introductory No. 10 of 2024 to revise the regulations
addressing the reservation of parkland to provide clear and concise language on their
applicability.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes. Stuart Greenbaum made a
motion to accept the coastal assessment form, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and carried, 5-0.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and had no changes. Stuart Greenbaum
made a motion to accept the short environmental assessment form, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and
carried, Leo 5-0.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policy as noted in the memo
attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency.

MOTION: Steve Krisky made a recommendation of consistency, seconded by lan Murtaugh, and the
motion carried, 5 — 0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Leo Wiegman made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of May 20th, 2024, seconded
by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:

There being no further business, Leo Wiegman made a motion for adjournment, seconded by Steve
Krisky, and the meeting adjourned at 4:57 p.m.

Respectfully submitted, Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

**Minutes approved 9/26 with a motion by Stuart Greenbaum, seconded by lan Murtaugh, and
carried, 4 — 0, with Steve Krisky being absent***

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


Chairman

LEN SIMON
Members
STUART GREENBAUM
; STEVE KRISKY
Village of Croton-on-Hudson IAN W. MURTAUGH
LEO WIEGMAN
Attorney
Waterfront Advisory Committee LINDA WHITEHEAD
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building Village Engineer
One Van Wyck Street DANIEL O'CONNOR, PE.
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501 Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO: Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees
FROM: Chairman Simon, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE: Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 10 of 2024 to revise the regulations
Addressing the reservation of parkland to provide clear and concise language on
Their applicability.

DATE: August 29, 2024

On August 28th, 2024, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with
the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above. Based
on the Committee’s review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a
recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were
no changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policy is
relevant:

POLICY 19: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.

POLICY 19A: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.

POLICY 19B: Increase public access to areas that offer physical and visual connection to
the Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.

POLICY 23: Protect, enhance, and restore structures, districts, areas, or sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.

The committee reviewed LWRP Section IV — Proposed land uses and projects and determined
that the following were relevant:

PROJECT 5: Improve Echo Canoe Launch and Village-Owned land at the southern end of
the train station parking lot.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


This project supports the continued improvement of this recreational area to enhance public
access to the Croton River and Bay and the Hudson River.

PROJECT 7: Facilitate access to the Hudson River Waterfront.

A recurring comment from public input during the LWRP process and prior plans was the need
to improve access to the Hudson River waterfront for vehicles, pedestrians, and bicyclists.

PROJECT 9: Implement segment of riverwalk trail from Croton Landing Park to
Oscawana County Park.

PROJECT 10: Undertake management and capital improvement plan for Village parks,
trains, open spaces and memorials.

PROJECT 11: Develop plan for future use of Gouveia Park.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790
