MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, June 23, 2024 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coordinator)

Absent:
Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE

David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): none
Announcements: this is our last meeting before our summer recess. Next meeting will
be Sunday, Sept. 22 at the usual time and place.
As of 6/22/24, Croton still holds 1st place in NYSERDA’s CEC program with 14,500
points. Kingston has 11,600, Hastings 11,100, Bedford 10,500, and Dobbs Ferry
10,000. The other ~900 participants each has fewer than 10,000 points.
Bernie Yozwiak had agreed to help us on electrical matters, but now says he cannot,
due to other commitments.
To re-certify Croton as a Silver Climate Smart Community (CSC), the following
docs were posted at our web page (www.sustain-croton.org) in June 2024:
- 2024 Community Climate Action Plan (CAP)
- 2024 Government Operations Climate Action Plan (CAP)
- 2024 Community Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory
- Status Report On Solar Canopies At The Croton-Harmon Train Station
All are now publicly accessible. The public is hereby notified via these publiclyposted meeting minutes.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Work at both ends
continues. See the most recent drone pic at
right. Arevon Energy, overall asset manager
for the project, OKed use of one of its drone
pics for the June Village newsletter, and to
promote a tour of the site in September, run
by HVRC (NYSERDA’s CEC contractor). CEC
activists, interested munis, and media will
attend. Mayor Pugh will guide the tour.
Lindsay will answer tech questions.
1

The mystery around the vertical 4” tube photographed by Dave in early May was
solved. It’s a marker for an underground drain line near a canopy pedestal.
Downspouts will feed into such connections.
Washington firehouse net metering: Moving slowly forward. Our application is
under review by Con Ed. The Village’s April NYPA bill, however, instead shows VDER
credits. Our NYPA rep is working to fix it.
DPW solar parking canopy: A draft project description and Scope of Work (SOW) is
being developed for Bryan Healy and Frank Balbi to review. A grant to fully pay for it is
now secured. A kick-off meeting with NYSERDA on 5/28/24 developed the NYSERDA
contract. If/when the project is OKed by Village staff, a schedule for developing and
issuing a RFP will be drafted.
Village electric accounts in community solar: As of the April NYPA bill (received
6/10/24), no Village accounts were showing community solar credits. Once NYPA
finally gets that done, we can file for 300 CEC points.
- Heat Pumps
Harmon firehouse addition: On 5/10/24, Lindsay sent Village staff the spec
developed by Jon and Dan for a hybrid rooftop ASHP. It will furnish most heat, with a
gas-fired heating coil for very cold days. A portion of our $175K CEC grant will cover
the extra cost over that of the standard gas-fired A/C that was in the original design.
Washington firehouse garage HPs: Jon and Dan expanded their work on specifying
an electric boiler.to supplement the firehouse’s existing and planned HPs. That option
would fully electrify the building, allowing for removal of its oil-fired boiler and 45-year
old underground oil tank. Funding is available for the project, which would be pursued
in conjunction with installation of the garage HPs. Then enrolling the building in CCA
would make it a net Zero Emission Building (ZEB).
To that end, Dave suggested heatinghelp.com, a site that reviews a variety of heating
issues. [At that site, Lindsay found a 2/24 announcement of a packaged system that
replaces fossil-fueled hydronic boilers with a combination air-to-water heat pump and
electric boiler. He forwarded it to Jon and Dan for their review.] Certifying a ZEB in the
CEC program would earn us 500 points. Only 3 muni ZEBs are certified in the State.
DPW HPs: The ASHRAE energy audit of the building arrived 5/17/24. It estimated the
cost to replace several existing 26-year old A/C units with ASHPs at $52,500, lower
than expected. Doing so would cut about 9 MT/yr of carbon emissions.
The audit found that there are rarely more than 4 people in the building at one time
(DPW has 28 employees). Some employees work remotely, while others are in the
field most of their workday. The low occupancy reduces the viability of some options,
e.g., a HPWH. On 5/30/24, a detailed review of the audit was sent to the contractor.
One intriguing option – replace the garage’s oil-fired heating system with radiant
heating – would however boost peak electric load by 150+ kW, necessitating major
2

expansion of the electric service while also creating a huge peak demand charge.
Adjustments and corrections to the audit are expected in July.
Residential HPs: On 5/30/24, NY opened its IRA-funded rebate/voucher program for
its Home Electrification and Appliance Rebates (HEAR) Program. Unfortunately, only
low-income households (~$50K/yr) eligible for NY’s EmPower+ program can access it.
Rollout of the next phase (open to middle-income families) is expected later this year.
Len agreed to review how many Croton households have incomes of $50K/yr or less
to see if enough exist to justify starting a HPWH program for them.
- EV/EVSE
We continue to await instructions and a contract for our $150K DEC grant to install 12
EV charge ports at the train station. Next steps include developing an RFP to get bids
that will update our now 2-year old cost estimate. In light of the delays since we
applied for the grant in 2022, we will ask to raise the amount due to inflation, etc.
See below for funding from 6 small NYSERDA grants (totaling $82.5K) that together
will cover the other 6 dual-port chargers (12 ports) not covered by the DEC grant.
- Financial and Budgeting Issues
Grant funding is in hand to cover the cost of the projects listed above. On 5/28/24, we
secured NYSERDA’s approval of our last 3 grants (totaling $45K) from Community
Campaigns completed in late winter. Those funds will (along with 3 other alreadyapproved grants for $37.5K) be allocated toward 12 more public EV charge ports at
the train station. Doing so will complete funding for the 24 charge ports in that project.
Len reported on a $750K “Community Project Funding” (CPF) grant obtained in 2023
by Hastings. It will support a $2.1M proposed project for geothermal and other energy
upgrades of its Town Hall and Public Library. His full report is at the end of these
minutes. The funding comes from appropriation bills via the local Congressional rep.
In 2022, Croton got a CPF grant to upgrade the Half Moon Bay Bridge, but (since Rep.
Mike Lawler was seated) has received no other CPF grants. Len felt that, if Mondaire
Jones is restored to his prior seat, we may get a shot at future CPF grants.
Len also discussed NY Forward, another potential funding source for a major project.
He reviewed how Croton has previously sought such funding, and the idea of seeking
it for a GSHP system to replace the Muni Bldg’s patchwork of HVAC systems, as
Hastings is doing for two of its buildings. See his notes at the end of these minutes.
He said that Croton was also eligible to seek a handful of other types of State grants
since it had qualified as a “Pro-Housing Community” (PHC). Len agreed to provide a
list of those other grants to see if any might make sense for a GSHP project.
- Other Reports

3

On 5/30/24, DEC completed review of our 4/2/24 submission for re-certification as a
Silver Climate Smart Community (CSC). Instead, DEC awarded us Bronze status until
we submit (by July 5) a variety of changed docs and updates. While securing Bronze
gave us 800 CEC points, getting to Silver will get us another 600 CEC points.
Over the summer, Ashley agreed to review renewable diesel [RD] (different from
biodiesel) as a possible replacement for #2 fuel oil. RD is made from discarded
cooking oil and is claimed to have <~10% of the CO2 emissions of fuel oil.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
A captioned drone pic of progress at the train station canopy project appeared in the
June Village newsletter.
Food scrap manager Keiko Niccolini ran a free
compost giveaway party at the scrap shed on
June 8. Here’s one of Dave’s pics:
Janet Monahan of the CAC will hold another
Repair Café in the Muni Bldg Community Room
Saturday, July 13, 11 AM to 3 PM. See CAC’s
flyer at the end of these minutes.
- New Business / Other Issues
As per Dave’s idea for finding a new member with professional electrical experience,
on 5/22/24 we joined the Volunteer New York (VNY) program used by the County to
find and place volunteers. VNY helps over 1,100 County groups, Most are focused on
issues of homelessness, drug/alcohol recovery, food distribution, etc. rather than
sustainability. It may be a long shot, but the word is now out there.
On 5/26/24, Lindsay contacted Bob Pelligrino, chair of the Tappan Zee chapter of the
Institute for Electrical & Electronic Engineers (IEEE), to see if any nearby retired (or
young) members might be willing to assist us. He agreed to ask. To clarify the level of
assistance we need, data on the train station EV charger project was sent to him.
Brian had previously said that a member need not be a Croton resident. Len said that
Ashley had an electrical engineering background, so Lindsay agreed to ask him.
If none of the above pan out by the end of July, several local electrical contractors will
be approached to the same end.. But a potential conflict-of-interest may exist if that
contractor then wanted to bid on a project it had helped develop. Brian agreed to
query the Village attorney on the matter.
Date for our next meeting (after our summer recess) was set for Sunday, Sept. 22 at

10:30 AM via Zoom.

4

Len’s report on Hastings $750,000 federal energy grant
The funding for Hastings was under the “Community Project Funding” (CPF) process in which
members of Congress can designate specific projects for local governments or non-profits in
their districts from appropriations or authorization bills. [Such grants need no match funds.]j
Here’s Congressman Bowman’s press release from January 2023 listing all the projects he
obtained for his district in the appropriations bill enacted a few days earlier:
https://bowman.house.gov/media/press-releases/news-rep-bowman-delivers-over-20-million-in-fundingfor-westchester-and-the-bronx

and here’s the specific description of the Hastings project: “$750,000 to the Village of
Hastings-on-Hudson to install geothermal heat pumps, solar panels, and improve energy
efficiency at its public library and village hall”.
Typically, the appropriators will set aside a large chunk of funding in various programmatic
areas (energy conservation, renewable energy, public safety technology, economic
development, water and sewer as examples) for local projects. Member-sponsored CPF
projects are then drawn from that general set aside, rather than from specific grant programs.
For the last four years, House members have been allowed 15 projects per cycle. Once the
funding bill is passed by Congress, the municipality or non-profit then submits the requisite
paperwork to the agency that will administer the project on behalf of the federal government.
CPF is a great opportunity and is how we obtained funding for the rehabilitation of the Half
Moon Bay Bridge. In 2022 then Congressman Mondaire Jones used the CPF process to
earmark $1.5 million for us for that project.
Since Congressman Mike Lawler succeeded Rep. Jones, we have sought CPF from him on
three occasions for a variety of projects including flood resilience, water and sewer and public
safety. Each time he has declined to sponsor the Croton projects. Should he remain in
Congress we will continue to seek his support. Should former Rep. Jones return, we might likely
have better luck, since he’s supported Croton projects in prior years.
Len’s notes on the NY Forward grant program
Quick Summary:

1. A few years back, NY State came out with the “Downtown Revitalization Initiative” (DRI)
to help communities enhance their business growth and infrastructure – each winner of
the DRI grant round received $10.0 million, including Ossining and Peekskill;

2. Small places found it difficult to compete with the bigger towns for DRI funding, so the
state created New York Forward designed to meet the needs of those smaller
municipalities;

3. Late last year the Governor also created the “Pro-Housing Communities” (PHC) program
to reward those municipalities who have done good work on expanding housing supply,
and chose Croton to be in the first batch of PHC’s announced February 7th;

4. Originally, the PHC designation meant you got “extra credit” for a whole bunch of other
state grant programs. But that has now been improved so that for certain state
programs only PHC’s can apply – including New York Forward;

5. The next NY Forward grant round has not yet been announced, but we expect it to be
sometime soon. The Mid-Hudson Economic Development Council, an arm of the

5

governor’s office, will have the responsibility for making the grant decisions in our region.
Bryan Healy and I have been in discussions with them and they seem to be eager to
receive our NY Forward application.

6. Now is a great time to be thinking of ideas on what types of projects to include in our
application. Some of the ideas we’ve thought about are streetscape improvements,
transportation safety, business marketing assessment, art and history related and
assorted others.

7. Your Municipal Building idea is definitely an intriguing one. We should talk soon about
that and maybe some others that would be attractive as part of our application package.

6

