WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, January 31st, 2024 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT Len Simon, Chairperson
Stuart Greenbaum

Sh cee APPROVED

lan W. Murtaugh
Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
1) CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Simon called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of January 31st, 2024 to order at 4:30
p.m.

2) REFERRALS

a) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP) Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 1 of 2024.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and had no changes.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo
attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency.

MOTION: Jan Murtaugh made made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Leo
Wiegman, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5 — 0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of January 22nd, 2024, as
amended, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

4. ADJOURNMENT:

There being no further business, Stuart Greenbaum made a motion for adjournment, seconded by lan
Murtaugh, and the meeting adjourned at 5:12 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

** Minutes approved 2/21/24 by a vote of 4-0 with Stuart Greenbaum being absent**

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


Chairman

LEN SIMON
Members
STUART GREENBAUM
: STEVE KRISKY
Village of Croton-on-Hudson IAN W. MURTAUGH
LEO WEIGMAN
Attorney
Waterfront Advisory Committee LINDA WHITEHEAD
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building Village Engineer
One Van Wyck Street DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501 Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO: Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees
FROM: Chairman Simon, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE: Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 1 of 2024 to Amend and Update
Provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning of the Village Code to add a new Section 230-
48.3 entitled “Geothermal Energy Systems.

DATE: February 5th, 2024

On January 31st, 2024, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency
with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above.
Based on the Committee’s review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee
made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were
no changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies are
relevant:

POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with
adopted goals and policies.

The proposed law provides specific requirements for Geothermal energy systems which will
clarify requirements for this type of technology.

POLICY 6: Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the siting of development
activites at suitable locations.

POLICY 6A: To expedite permit procedures, the Village shall coordinate all relevant local
laws into a development package for applicants and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development activities.

The proposed law clarifies requirements for Geothermal Energy Systems and will be available
online after adoption.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction
activity shall be timed so that spawning of andadromous fish species and shellfish will
not be adversely affected.

POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to
safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote
the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the
topsoil.

Plans submitted with the permit application will include requirements for erosion and sediment
control during construction of the geothermal energy system.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790
