Special Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, September 18, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Politi
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

The following official was absent:
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:30pm and led everyone in the pledge
of allegiance.
2. Village Shuttle Presentation by Max Hendrix of CIRCUIT. To view the presentation,
you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202409/5418a65315f55e05a391e27367f6555848a87abc.pdf
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Politi and seconded by Trustee Simon, the Board Trustees
authorized the Village Manager to submit a letter on behalf of the Village of Croton
on Hudson supporting a grant for an electric mobility transportation program. The
motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
3. Consider re-scheduling the public hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 10 of
2024 to amend the Zoning Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in relation to
fees in lieu of parkland for October 9, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building.
Resolution:
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson provides for the
reservation of parkland and the payment of fees in lieu thereof with regards to new
developments and,
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees wishes to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of
the Village Code to clarify these provisions; and WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory
No. 10 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes, and

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 2

WHEREAS on July 24, 2024, the Village Board referred the draft law to the
Westchester County Planning Board, the Village Planning Board and the Waterfront
Advisory Committee, all of which have provided comments back to the Village
Board, and
WHEREAS on September 11, 2024, the Village Board adopted Resolution 181
2024, scheduling a public hearing for September 25, 2024; and WHEREAS, the
Board wishes to re-schedule the date of the public hearing,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
public hearing to be held on October 9, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 10 of 2024, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the public hearing previously scheduled for
September 25, 2024, is hereby canceled.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that the Planning Board made the following
two recommendations to the proposed Local Law:
(1) Under Section Two, § 230-123-part D, it states, “All funds paid in lieu of
recreation land shall constitute a trust fund to be used by the Village of Croton-onHudson exclusively for park, playground or recreation purposes, including the
acquisition of land.” The Planning Board recommends that this wording be added
under § 230-73 of Local Law Introductory 10 of 2024.
(2) The Planning Board recommends that the parkland fee payment must be made
prior to the Planning Board Chairperson signing a subdivision plat.
4. Motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the Special Permit Application from
WBP Development LLC for the construction of a multifamily development at 1
Croton Point Avenue was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Attorney Whitehead advised that this application is for a Special Permit for
a multi-family Transit-Oriented residential development on the LOT A property.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that a Special Permit is a use that has been
determined by the Legislative Body to be a permitted use provided certain
conditions are satisfied, if the use meets the criteria set forth in the Village Code,
then this Board does not have the discretion to deny it and to do so could be

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 3

deemed arbitrary and capricious by a court, the Board will be doing a SEQRA
Review (State Environmental Quality Review Act) which is the review of the
potential environmental impacts of the project, the applicant has provided a
significant amount of information for that review, the Village’s consultant has made
some comments and has asked for some additional information which is being
provided and the Board, at a future meeting, will be reviewing that information
and undertaking an environmental review in accordance with State laws which will
be completed prior to the Board taking any action, if the Board takes action, the
applicant will then go before the Planning Board for Site Plan Review.
Village Manager Healy read his report dated September 18, 2024; to view the
report, you may lot onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202409/5c90a17e0881a11d4aa50769f67b80185b610646.pdf
John Bainlardi from WBP Development, advised that the proposal is for a fivestory, 100-unit affordable condominium development consisting of 46 one
bedroom and 54 two-bedroom apartments with 105 parking spaces, WBP is
currently in contract to also purchase the adjourning property at 1-3 Croton Point
Avenue.
Trustee Simon stated that he looked at the visual impact materials and asked Mr.
Bainlardi to go over it in more detail.
Mr. Bainlardi stated that the photos are simulations that were taken during the
zoning review process by the Village’s Planner from six different vantage points,
the structure in the photos maxes out the total potential capacity for the site and
assumes a 50-foot height. Mr. Bainlardi stated that their proposed structure is
about 6 feet taller, that includes the elevator bulkhead, as well the parapet.
Trustee Murtaugh asked for an explanation of a re-sale scenario, with respect to
affordable condominiums.
Mr. Bainlardi stated that resale prices are based on what the mortgage rates are as
well as the area medium income at that time, they will essentially do a recalculation of what a person can afford based on the structure that is in place and
that will determine the amount that a unit can be sold for.
Mayor Pugh stated that affordable ownership housing under the AHOP Program is
supposed to be affordable based on 80% of the area income, what a unit is sold
for now is based on what was affordable at this time, ten years down the road,

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 4

hopefully incomes have gone up and interest rates have gone down, and those
factors will determine the prices. Mayor Pugh stated that there is a 50-year
covenant of affordability, and after 50 years they are released into the market.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Gordon Baptiste, 405 Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, objects to WPB
attempting to create the same structures that they built in Tarrytown, White
Plains, New Rochelle, and Peekskill, this is an issue of the future and direction that
Croton should take, he is concerned that this development will create more traffic,
longer lines at our post office, and supermarkets and does not want our village to
become a city.
Michael Kolk, 114 Elmore Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that changing the
zoning in this area has changed the character of Croton and wants this
development restricted to three stories. Mr. Kolk asked that the Board not to
discount air-conditioning units and other equipment that will be added to the roof
of this development and is concerned the building will stand out like a sore thumb.
Joel Gingold, 55 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that this development
will have a deleterious impact on the Village, and asked that the Board wait to see
what the impacts are of our current developments, we cannot afford to gamble on
the future of Croton and asked that the Board slow down the process, the
projected 100 apartments, with 105 parking spaces leaves no room for those who
may have a second car, and while he agrees we need affordable housing, we need
it for Croton residents.
Bruce Kauderer, 6 Georgia Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that it is important for
the Board and community to consider this application individually on its own merit
and not conflate it with future projects that may or may not ever be built. Mr.
Kauderer stated that this is the best location for a multi-family apartment building.
Mr. Kauderer stated that he served as Vice Chair of the Planning Board for many
years and while he has tremendous respect for our Planning Board, he does not
agree with their recommendation that the project be cut back to 60-80 units and
urged the Board to approve the project for 100 units. Mr. Kauderer stated that if
every Village and Town said they do not want affordable housing, where are people
going to live. Mr. Kauderer stated that the tax revenues this project will generate
will greatly exceed any additional expenses for servicing it.
Charles Henley, 7 Hudson Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that in addition to the
traffic study he would also like to see a bicycle/pedestrian assessment that

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 5

concentrates on both the construction and post-construction impacts. Mr. Henley
stated that as a daily commuter to the train station, he finds the current
arrangement on Croton Point Avenue not to be all that safe, the intersection is
already very busy due to the 9A on and off ramps, and adding a new supersized
development could complicate this, he also feels the visual analysis is inadequate,
there must be an effective assessment of the impacts to the residents who live in
this area.
Jason Hillard, Director of Government Affairs of the Building and Realty Institute of
Westchester read an email he submitted to the Village Board on September 19,
2025; in his letter he states that WBP is known for their exemplary reputation of
sustainable affordable housing development throughout New York. Mr. Hillard
goes on to say that Westchester is in desperate need of housing, and the lack of
which threatens the health of our economy and the vibrancy of our communities,
the proposed affordable housing project at 1 Croton Point Avenue is part of the
solution to our housing shortage, it is a Transit-Oriented development conveniently
located near the Croton Train Station, in 2021 they published a paper on the
economic benefits of building more housing, they also discovered that school
enrollment did not increase and in every case there was a net surplus in school
taxes for the local district.
Catherine Borgia, 102 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that while she
served on the Westchester County Board of Legislators, the issue of needing more
housing at every price point in Westchester County became crucial to the County’s
continued economic survival, she states that it is important to listen to the needs
and concerns of your constituents and every development requires some back and
forth to meet those concerns, but she is discouraged with some of the comments
that have been made “that the community needs to stay the same”, communities
do not exist in a bubble and Croton has to exist within the context of Westchester
County and she does not believe the comments that this development will
completely change Croton.
Matt Berger, 5 O’Reilly Count, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is passionate
about helping out those around him, and would like to see people succeed and
believes that this development will offer that opportunity to many people, there is
a serious housing need in Croton and firmly believes that adding smart
development to our community which he sees being presented along with
strengthening our services and infrastructure will give more opportunity to those
that are looking to share our love for Croton as well helping to strengthen Croton
fiscally into the future.

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 6

Evan Perdomo-Cohen, 189 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is a
small business owner in the Village and a former member of the LOT A Task Force,
the Task Force spent months researching and debating every angle of making the
RFP for this project as considerate and thorough as possible, LOT A has always
been a space that has never found its purpose and has never lived up to its
potential until now and he believes that the development of LOT A will bring many
benefits to our entire community and breathe life into our commerce economy.
Lewis Montana, 5 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes that
parking will worsen, and does not understand how this proposal helps residents of
Croton. Mr. Montana asked that we not try to please governor Hochul, but rather
the residents of Croton and questioned if there is really a housing-crises, the Board
needs to see what the effects of the current new developments will be on the
community before they approve another project and asked that the Board put a
Moratorium on new development.
Maria McGuire, 1 Wayne Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is concerned
that she will lose her view and asked that the Board keep the development to
three stories, she is also concerned about water pressure and the effects on the
community during construction.
Matthew McGuire, 1 Wayne Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that the proposed
building looks like it should be in Brooklyn not in Croton, he is concerned that a
five-story building will block his views and would like the building kept to threestories so that it fits into the character of Croton.
Khush-Kam Au, Campaign Organizer for “The Welcome Home Westchester” gave
an overview of the organization and highlighted their support for new housing
developments in Croton. For more information on the program, you may log onto
the following website. https://welcomehomewestchester.org/.
Lisa Stenson Desamours, 1400 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated
that she believes that the LOT A development will have an adverse effect on the
ingress and egress of Half Moon Bay homeowners, and asked the Board to slow
down development to determine and analyze the affect on school, infrastructure,
traffic, parking and municipal services. Ms. Desamours went on to address her
concerns about the quality of construction and suggested that WBP Development
put $10 million dollars in reserves to address potential problems in the future,
asked that a seasoned engineering consultant be retained to perform construction
supervision and inspection services at no cost to existing Village homeowners, she
believes that this development does not meet the criteria for a Transit Oriented

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 7

Development and asked if the Village will receive an assessment from NYSDOT on
traffic impacts since Route 9 and 9A are State roads, all local planning and funding
approvals need to be in place and documented to the County for WBP to acquire
the property, the funding through Westchester County New Homes Land
Acquisition can only be used to acquire property related to the affordable
residential portion of the development and stressed that the development must be
a condominium and not a rental.
Jeffrey Oswood, 64 Sunset Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the housing
market is brutal and believes that this project will be a boom to our community
and will ensure that we continue to have a vibrant community, this has been a well
thought out project and is being undertaken in a careful considerate manner and
encouraged the Board to move forward and give the community the housing that it
is so desperately needs.
Ethan Lewis, 38 Glengary Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that this building will put
an unused piece of Village owned property back on the tax rolls, the Village has
been able to add 188 parking spaces at the train station since the pandemic, yet
we are likely to continue to see a permanent decrease in train station parking
usage. Mr. Lewis stated that while school enrollment peaked in 2009, and we are
currently down 162 students since that time and the forecast indicates that even
with these two developments we will see a decline of another 162 students. Mr.
Lewis stated that Croton was founded with a population of under 2,000 and it has
quadrupled since then, and it is strange to hear people imply that there is some
perfect fixed point and while change is not always progress, we cannot have
progress without change.
Alice Schildkraut, 711 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
concerned about traffic, she walks out of the south gate of Half Moon Bay and find
that the traffic light is a disaster, it will be difficult getting into stores and
suggested a shopping center on that property instead of a housing development,
asked how we are going to ensure that these apartments cannot be rented to
prevent transient housing and would rather see this building be for seniors and be
limited to three stories.
Matthew Schuerman, 53 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
has a sense that some people think our specialness is dependent on keeping other
people away, population of Croton grew by 9% between 2000-2021 with the U.S.
growing nearly twice that rate, and if you believe that Croton should shoulder
some of that growth, LOT A seems like a great place to do it, and while he does

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 8

not want Croton to grow too fast, a little growth makes sense, the sale of LOT A
will bring the Village 2.3 million dollars and an increase in property tax revenues
and with the Pro-Housing Community Designation, it will give the Village a leg up
on infrastructure grants.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the proposed
building on LOT A is completely out of character with the architecture of the
Village, five stories make no sense, and does not want this to turn it into a
cityscape. Mr. Eisinger stated that what concerns him is the Board’s haste to make
this happen now when there is so much at stake and before the data is in on the
current developments, he is concerned that the viewshed for residents on Wayne
Street will be affected, and does not feel that the diagram fairly represents the
families on Wayne Street, does not understand why we are holding this public
hearing without the new in-depth traffic study, the Planning Board also questioned
whether the 105 parking spaces will be sufficient for the proposed 100 units even
though it is in a Transit Oriented District.
Adam Shapiro, 37 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he supports the
LOT A proposal and is privileged to live in Croton, it is proven that housing
increases revenue, supports job creation and generates significant revenues to the
community.
John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that what Croton
adopted with respect to Transit Oriented Development is not a statute in New York
State law, what Croton adopted was a similar bill that the NYS Legislature had
rejected. Mr. McKeon stated that the proposed development is an all-wood
structure that is 73 feet high, yet we only have 50 firefighters that are certified to
fight interior fires and is concerned that we may not have enough firemen should
we have catastrophic fire, he is also concerned about fire trucks being able to
navigate onto the property as well as concerns about what products will be used to
keep out the noises surrounding this development.
Steve Varvaro, 1263 Albany Post Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he was part
of a group of citizens fighting against the idea of putting two solar panel fields on
the grounds of Hudson National Golf Course and he is bitter and angry because of
the anguish the Board put him through for two years, he believes that there was a
conflict of interest at that time and does not have trust in the Board and
encouraged the community to keep up the pressure.
Brian Cook, 52 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the Board to look
at the enrollment of children in our day care facilities, there is also a shortfall of

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 9

programs for children because all you hear is that there is not enough room to
accommodate children, and stressed that we do not have the infrastructure to
accommodate more housing and more cars on the road.
Susan Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, gave an overview of the
timeline and process for the LOT A project. Ms. Skrelja stated that she believes
that current taxpayers will be absorbing the tax difference if the development is all
affordable, an 80/20 split would not burden taxpayers and would promote
economic integration, she also expressed her concerns that the developer is trying
to push through one of the largest developments in Croton.
David Bogdam, 50 Irving Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that it is difficult to
have confidence in the Board and he is concerned that the Board is making
gestures that they are willing to bend the rules and would like to see a Moratorium
on development and doesn't see why a building that is currently occupied has to
be demolished to build something new.
Benjamin Faber, 170 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he does not
agree with the argument that Croton has grown to its maximum and we should not
be adding new housing units because this is as big as the Village should be. Mr.
Faber stated that it seems that we are having this debate on honest terms, it
seems that organic growth used to be okay when we liked it, and now some have
just changed our mind, and all of a sudden we do not like it anymore.

Colleen Beyrer, 19 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she supports the
comments made regarding scaling the building down to three stores, and asked if
the Board has any discretion and does not agree that the school can take on
additional special needs children because she had to send her child out of district
for those services.
Adrian Rice, Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that many people here
tonight have really not addressed the underlying housing crises we are facing, so
many people are moving back with their families because they cannot find or
afford housing and encouraged the Board to approve this proposal as quickly as
possible.
Carl Grimm, 5 Cook Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that five stories is unruly, this
is the gateway to the Village, and it doesn’t seem right to see a large brick
building, he understands that Croton needs housing, but the Croton train station is
a magnet for people commuting and if good bus services were provided we would
not see all these cars on the road.

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 10

Tony Granger, 217 Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, stated that we should not
underestimate the fire safety concerns in light of the wood frame structure being
proposed, there are also concerns of whether the Fire Department’s Ladder truck
would be able to reach the building from the roadway, and if it would it have to
the rear of the building, the Westchester County Planning Department also
addressed their concerns regarding e-bike storage, Croton Point Avenue has seven
major sources of traffic and while the Planning Board believes this is a good
location, 100 units may be too large when you factor the potential increase in
traffic and the number of school children and they suggested a reduction to 60-80
units.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes
that the Village should keep LOT A because we may need it in the future, the
developer should propose two parking spaces for each two-bedroom unit and
questioned the projected number of school age children.
Phyllis Morrow, 61 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that this proposal is
crazy, dense housing has more crime, and Croton cannot solve Westchester’s
housing problems and urged the Board to listen to the public.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the building looks
like a prison and urged the Board to put the sale of public property up for a
referendum, this is a terrible location because of the seven sources of major traffic
in this area, and is concerned that the developer is not providing an area for
children to play.
Maria Slippen, 5 Michaels Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that Croton’s
Comprehensive Plan which is the basis for these decisions with respect to
development, was approved unanimously by a non-Democratic Board in 2017, and
that this bi-partisan vision is Croton’s roadmap and the decision is fully supported
by what that Plan lays out, she is grateful to the Master Plan Committee and the
Village Board that took the time and consideration of our businesses to thrive, our
schools to remain and become more competitive and to the changing demographic
socio-economic makeup of our Village, more recently members of the by-partisan
LOT A Task Force convened and these thoughtful people gave their time and
energy over the course of years and understood that stagnation would not be best
for the long term, she also served on a committee representing Croton on the
Town’s 2016 Sustainable Comprehensive Plan, “Envision Cortlandt” discusses
Transit-Oriented design which is exactly like LOT A. Ms. Slippen stated that while
she supports the project she believes that 100 units seems like a lot, there is

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 11

space and opportunity in our schools and is excited for what is next. To view the
“Envision Cortlandt” document, you may log onto the following:
https://www.townofcortlandt.com/documents/2016_mp/cortlandt%20master%20p
lan_021816%20(2).pdf
Lynn Harmonay, 114 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she feels
that the data that has been presented is absurd, and this project is putting other
agendas in front of Croton voters in terms of health and safety, water, fire, traffic,
schools and financial concerns. Ms. Harmonay stated that Half Moon Bay residents
are immediate neighbors of this project whose emergency access will be impacted
by this project.
Kurt Seelke, 65 Melrose Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked why the community
cannot vote on this.
Written comments:
Email from George Ivanoff, 233 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2024, states that he is opposed to development considering that a
10-20% increase in population is possible, and that the Board must take a lot
more responsibility in considering the impact to current Croton residents.
Email from Greg Maher, 44 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, dated September 18,
2024, states that Croton needs more housing for people at the lower end of the
income scale and is why he supports the 1 Croton Point Avenue project, but only
as a 100% affordable housing project and conditioned on ensuring that the condo
association board has ongoing support from organizations like the Housing Action
Council, a development scope to protect homeowners with the noise and air
filtrations from idling diesel trains.
Email from Ashley Cretara, Batten Road, Croton on Hudson, dated September 18,
2024, asked what the rush is, concerned that adding classrooms would affect the
teachers and students, and does not feel that concerns and questions from the
community are not being addressed.
Email from Cathy Connolly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2024, asking that the Village take a pause to see what the effects
are on the community from the current developments, she is concerned about the
number of cars and the number of school children.

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 12

Email from James Dasinger, 77 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, dated September
18, 2024, states that Croton needs housing options more than it needs abandoned
parking lots, the Board has done its due diligence, and the professionals have
weighed in, Lot A is the right project, in the right place, at the right time and will
be a net positive for all present and future Croton residents.
Email from Alexander Weiss-Richmond, 15 Wood Road, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2014, states that in light of the recommendation from the
Westchester County Planning Board that the sewer demands of this project be
offset through stricter regulation of private residences, he encourages the Board to
enact a requirement that a sewer lateral inspection be conducted at the time the
property ownership is transferred and any necessary correction action be
enforceable by the Building Inspector.
Email from Daniel Bennett, Croton on Hudson, dated September 17, 2024, states
that he is concerned about how the proposed building will meet the required fire
flow formula, and that the building be fully sprinklered as well as a water tower or
on-site fire pump and asked that the Board scale back the project to 80 units as
suggested by the Planning Board.
Email from Michael Edson, 127 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2024, asked that the Board wait to see how the Maple Commons
project pans out, we have already met New York State’s requirements for
affordable housing, and suggested some shops or restaurants rather than limiting
ourselves to just buildings.
Email from Richard Olver, 42 Whelan Avenue, Croton on Hudson, dated September
18, 2024, states that the impacts of the development has been studied extensively
and are limited, our housing crisis for middle class residents requires that we
create numerous new residences, this project is ideal and will grow out tax base by
returning an unused municipal parking lot to the tax rolls.
Email from Dylan Basescu, 65 Radnor Avenue, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2024, states that the average home price in Croton of $756,000
makes these home unaffordable for anyone making under $140,000, and if we
want to continue to make Croton an inclusive community we need projects like
this.
Email from Hamilton H. Regan, 98 Mount Airy Road S, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2024, states that he is in favor of a multifamily development at 1
Croton Point Avenue.

Village Board of Trustees
September 18, 2024
Page 13

Email from Adam Decker, 13 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2024, states that he supports the development and sale of LOT A,
the housing prices continue to create an exodus of work force members of our
region, and this is a great chance to take an underused parking lot and put it back
on the tax rolls.
Email from Nance Shatzkin, 132 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2024, states that our need for housing of all kinds is essential to
the continued vibrancy and health of our community and we are so lucky that we
have a current infrastructure in good shape for this growth and we will effectively
re-purpose a property from a parking lot to housing, this development is within
walking distance to the train station and will be a wonderful addition to the Village.
Email from Chris Roose, 55 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, dated September
18, 2024, states that due to the subsidies leveraged to the fund the project, the
developer is required to advertise this to a 9-county area, and the future residents
would not necessarily be from Croton, he also believes that this will help build
generational wealth is disingenuous because resale prices would be pinned to the
annual rate of inflation for the next 50 years, this project is pinned between a
federal highway and a busy train station and will be loud and dangerous and there
is nothing in the proposal to provide any green space.
Email Robert Armanini, 10 Thompson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, dated
September 18, 2024, states that this project is entirely too large, he is also
questioning the financial viability for Croton, as well as his concerns regarding
additional school children, traffic and fire safety.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting and continue the Public Hearing on October 9, 2024, was made by Trustee
Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Meeting adjourned at 10:02pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

