Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Monday, December 4, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini
1.

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Simon

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23243137 through 23243271. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$107,517.20
$11,544.61
$197.10
$7,923.09

2.

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none.

3.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a.

Annual Report from the Arts and Humanities Advisory Council.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/d6afdc21e55d09f729d3d71900e7682e63683288.pdf

b.

Email from John Munson, President/Secretary of the Croton Fire
Council, regarding membership changes in the Croton Fire Department.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/d747e9c8e22bcd77839362292ac28706711ba336.pdf

c.

Memorandum from William C. Brady of Nelson Pope Voorhis regarding
the Final Scope for the preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact
Statement (DEIS) for the current Chair Factory Project in the Village of
Haverstraw.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/c56339d767c90bcdd7610bcbcf762f2127500b3c.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 2

Village Manager Healy explained that the Village of Haverstraw has
designated the Village of Croton as an Interested Agency. For more
information on the project, you may log onto their website.
https://voh-ny.com/chair-factory-development/2/
d. Notice of Retirement from Police Officer Douglas Garrido effective
December 17, 2023
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/dccf37c21f53aae6fad720f52be94ce616834ca1.pdf
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh, the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson accepted the
resignation from Police Officer Douglas Garrido effective December
17, 2023. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
8.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Tex Dinkler, 50 Batten Road, Croton on Hudson, congratulated everyone
sworn in this evening, and expressed his appreciation to the Croton
community for supporting the LOSAP program.
Mr. Dinkler directed the Board to the “Croton Volunteer Fire Department
Service Award Program/Summary of Program Provisions,” “Service Credit.”
Mr. Dinkler explained that for the last twenty years, and according to State
Law, during the thirty-day period fire-fighters have appealed in writing to
the Administrator of the Fire Department, the Administrator would then go
through their records and make the necessary corrections, but the attached
“Summary of Program Provisions”, states that a firefighter must appeal in
writing and mail or deliver it to the Village Clerk and that should be
corrected to reflect what we have been doing in the past.
Summary of Program Provisions:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/6c24457bad712027cbe2fb1e87a225c66d0c0327.pdf

.

Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, blamed the Democratic
party for the increase in the cost of financing housing, would like to see the
Village move their elections to March, believes that funding for the arts is

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 3

questionable, asked the Village to consider erecting a statue at Croton Point
in recognition of “Rifle Jack” Peterson who was a Revolutionary war era
patriot of African and Kitchewan descent, the New York State Employees
Defined Benefit Retirement Plan should be replaced with a Defined
Contribution Plan.
9.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #262 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the arts and humanities have long been a significant and vibrant part of the
character of the Village; and are intrinsic to community quality of life, and
WHEREAS the Village is committed to continuing and increasing and supporting the
presence of artists, writers, performers, and musicians in the community, and the access
of the whole community to arts and humanities, and
WHEREAS on May 20, 2019, a permanent advisory council to the Village Board of
Trustees, titled the Arts & Humanities Advisory Council (AHAC), was established with the
intent to support increased public awareness and appreciation for the arts, the
integration of art into our public spaces, and to recognize and celebrate the achievements
of our local arts community, and
WHEREAS in pursuit of this intent, the Village Board desires to increase the membership
capacity of the Arts & Humanities Advisory Council,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the membership capacity for the Arts &
Humanities Advisory Council is hereby increased from no more than nine members to no
more than eleven members.
Resolution #263 of 2023
Following comments made by Tex Dinkler, the Board tabled Resolution #263 of 2023,
adopting the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program until the next
meeting.

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 4

Trustee Murtaugh stated that Croton has a very dedicated Fire Department, and the
length of service of some of the members is remarkable, Tex Dinkler is an example,
serving our community for fifty-five years.
Resolution #264 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson owns a certain parcel of parkland known as
Vassallo Park, and
WHEREAS LEAP F.C., located at 124 Grand Street, wishes to conduct recreational
activities for their participants at Vassallo Park, and
WHEREAS LEAP F.C. has received Planning Board approval for their change of use, with
the understanding that use of the park would be negotiated between the Village and the
owner-operators, and
WHEREAS the Village would like to formalize an agreement with LEAP F.C. regarding the
use of the park, and set a monthly license fee in the amount of $50 per month, and
WHEREAS the term of the license agreement shall be through May 31, 2024, and subject
to renewal at the discretion of the Village,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the License Agreement with LEAP F.C. of Croton-on-Hudson, NY to conduct
certain recreational activities at Vassallo Park.
Resolution 265 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Westchester County Clerk maintains a system called Westchester Records
Online (WRO) that enables municipalities to remotely access the County Clerk’s land
records and other legal files, and

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 5

WHEREAS in order to continue accessing this system, Westchester County requires
municipalities to sign a Memorandum of Understanding annually,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the Memorandum of Understanding with Westchester County to renew access to
the Westchester Records Online (WRO) for the period beginning January 1, 2024,
through December 31, 2024.
Resolution 266 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on November 16, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees issued a special permit
to M & J Auto Repair Corp. to operate a motor vehicle repair garage at 485 S. Riverside
Avenue, and
WHEREAS the special permit for M & J Auto Repair Corp. was set to expire on November
15, 2023, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees received an application from Marco Ordonez of M
& J Auto Repair Corp. to renew the special permit to operate a motor vehicle repair
garage and modify the special permit to include an existing 6' x 12' shed to store various
equipment and supplies, and
WHEREAS renewal and modification of the special permit is a Type II action under the
New York State Environmental Quality Review Act, which does not require an
environmental review, and
WHEREAS the Village Planning Board has reviewed the application and has submitted a
recommendation to renew the Special Permit for a period of 18 months, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on the application was opened and closed on November 13,
2023, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees extended the permit issued on November 16,
2020, for a period of 30 days, in order to further investigate concerns raised at the public
hearing, and

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 6

WHEREAS the applicant submitted an application to the Planning Board for amended site
plan approval, and a public hearing on the application is scheduled for December 5,
2023,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues a
special permit to M & J Auto Repair Corp., 485 S. Riverside Avenue, to operate a motor
vehicle repair garage with the following conditions:

1.

That the special permit be granted for a period of 18 months, from December 15, 2023, until
June 15, 2025, and that the applicant submit a renewal application at least 45 days in advance
of the expiration date.

2.

That site improvements addressing the potential conflict between pedestrians entering and
exiting the Straddles business and vehicles entering and exiting the M & J Auto Repair business
be incorporated into the amended site plan. The Planning Board shall consider the relocation of
the entrance to the M & J Auto Repair business to a location north of the current gate opening in
addition to other improvements deemed appropriate by the Planning Board. The Planning
Board as part of their amended site plan approval shall establish a reasonable time frame for the
completion of the site improvements.

3.

That the applicant, after receiving amended site plan approval from the Planning Board shall
apply to the Building Department no later than 30 days after Planning Board approval, for a
building permit and certificate of occupancy for the existing shed.

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that while we are still concerned with the conditions of the
retaining walls, it looks like progress is being made with M&J with respect to the issues
we addressed with them.
Village Manager Healy stated that the Notice of Violation has been issued to the property
owner and the property owner has until the middle of December to address them.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he did a site visit and witnessed the traffic issues first-hand
and is pleased that M&J and Straddles Gymnastics agree with the proposed changes that
will make it safer for everyone. Trustee Murtaugh explained that prior to M&J moving
into this location it was a static supply area for the owner of the property and there was
no activity going in and out of that gate, which had changed when M&J was permitted to
open and that is when the conflicts started.
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 7

Trustee Nicholson asked who would be responsible for the changes.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that it is the owner’s responsibility to address the gate issue.
Village Manager Healy stated that we are hoping that the landlord would see the benefit
of making this change and as part of the amended Site Plan approval, the Village Board
is asking the Planning Board to consider the relocation of the gate during their review.
Resolution 267 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has received inquiries about purchasing village-owned property,
and
WHEREAS an appraisal of the parcels is required to determine the fair market value of
these parcels, and
WHEREAS the cost of the appraisals is $4,050, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2023-2024 General Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $4,050 from Contingency Account #A1990.4000 to the following
accounts:
A1940.4000 – Purchase of Land – Contractual

$4,050

Resolution 268 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Department of Public Works has been working to restore Village roadways
that have been excavated for the purpose of repairing water leaks, and

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 8

WHEREAS due to an unanticipated increase in the cost in materials, the Department of
Public Works Superintendent Frank Balbi requests $6,000 to cover the expenses for the
remainder of the repairs, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2023-2024 Water Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $6,000 from Contingency Account F1990.4000 to the following
accounts:
F8340.4170 – Distribution – Pavement Restoration: $6,000
Resolution 269 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0
vote.
WHEREAS pursuant to Village Law § 5-526, the Board of Trustees may, by resolution,
establish a revolving petty cash account for any administrative unit or officer in such
amount as is deemed necessary, and
WHEREAS petty cash accounts shall be used strictly in accordance with other adopted
policies, such as the Village’s Procurement Policy, and
WHEREAS the Village Board established a petty cash account for the Police Department
on December 12, 1968, by resolution, and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to formalize petty cash accounts for other Village
departments,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to draw and
issue a check in the amount(s) necessary to establish petty cash accounts as outlined
below:
Business Office:
$500.00
Treasurer’s Office:
$250.00
Recreation Dept.:
$200.00
Engineering Dept.:
$50.00
Police Dept.:
$500.00
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 9

Total:

$1,500.00

10. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, expressed his concerns with the
BLM organization, stated that the US poverty rate saw its largest one-year
increase in its history, addressed his concerns regarding the 1619 Project,
believes that some groups were not included in the Village’s Statement of
Inclusion, concerned about development along our waterfront, concerned about
what is happening in Ukraine, and does not believe Croton should be a member of
the International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives.
11. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
November 27, 2023, was made by Trustee Murtaugh. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
12.REPORTS
Trustee Nicholson thanked the Recreation Department and Department of Public
Works for helping to make our tree and Menorah lighting a huge success, thanked
the 125th Anniversary Committee for putting on an outstanding jazz concert, it has
been a very special year for Croton with so many wonderful events celebrating our
125th Anniversary and thanked the Committee for all their hard work.
Trustee Simon echoed Trustee Nicholson’s comments on the recent jazz concert
and thanked conductor Andy Farber who helped arrange this along with our 125
Anniversary Committee. Trustee Simon advised that he sat in on a conference call
with County Executive George Latimer highlighting Legislative activities, they have
wrapped up their budget and is pleased to advise that there will be no new tax
levies on property taxes, the Coast Guard has retracted their proposal with respect
to barges in the Hudson River, attended the Sustainability Committee meeting
where we learned about some of their proposed projects that could amount to
$82,000 in State funding that we can use towards future projects, attended the
Fire Council meeting last week, the tree and Menorah lighting ceremony was a
huge success, the Telecommunications Advisory Committee met today and they
are continuing to work on our Code, this Friday the Marketing Working Group, of
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 4, 2023
Page 10

our larger Business Group will meet on Friday morning to continue discussions on
how the business community and the Village can work together.
Trustee Murtaugh thanked Trustee Horowitz for her years of dedicated service to
the Village and welcomed Trustee Cara Politi, thanked retiring Police Douglas
Garrido for his dedicated service to the Village, announced that the annual toy
drive, sponsored by the Croton Caring Committee and the Croton Police
Department will take place at the Municipal Building this Sunday from 11am-3pm,
thanked Ed Reily of Truesdale Drive for his suggestion that a monument at Croton
Point be erected in recognition of the contributions of our local patriots.
Trustee Politi thanked everyone for welcoming her to the Board, and to Mayor
Pugh for her committee appointments and looks forward to working with these
committees.
Mayor Pugh advised that the long, awaited Repair Café, will be held this Saturday,
from 11am-3pm at the Municipal Building.
Village Manager Healy advised that the “Dummy Light” is in the process of being
repaired, our Department of Public Works is trying to locate bricks that would more
closely match the original bricks and we will be analyzing the costs associated with
this repair. Village Manager Healy stated that in the near future we will be
revisiting the traffic study in this area, and we may not want to expend a large
amount of funds if we are going to redo this area. Village Manager Healy advised
that our Police Department has been able to identify the person who caused the
damage, and we will be seeking restitution.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 8:41pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

.

