Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, January 24, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Simon

Absent Official:
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23243853 through 23244121. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$245,028.28
$27,782.29
$2,255.54
$388,741.04
$63,232.68

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Public Hearing to consider the adoption of the official map of the
Village of Croton on Hudson, New York.
A motion was made by Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Politi
to continue the Public Hearing held on January 10, 2024, to consider the
adoption of the official map of the Village of Croton. The motion was
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy highlighted some of the recommendations that the
Planning Board made as indicated in the attached memo.
Planning Board’s memo.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202401/744d823eb90af5baa93b1436c2e3d7c1f4b394ef.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 2

There was a discussion as to whether or not the gates should be included on
the official map and the Board recommended that they be included.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that even though the Veteran signs in the parking
lot are not considered official streets, he believes it would be respectful to
add those to the map.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that those street signs are ceremonial
and not official streets, for a street to be placed on the Official Map it has to
have been shown on a filed map or dedicated by the Village. Village
Attorney Whitehead explained that this map is not meant to be used as a
street map, but rather for official purposes only.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #2-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Village Law § 7-724 provides for the ability of a Village to adopt an official map
showing the streets, highways and parks theretofore laid out, and
WHEREAS the official map of the Village was last updated on April 20, 1992, and
WHEREAS additional streets and parks in the Village have been opened since that time,
and
WHEREAS, the Village retained CAI Technologies of Littleton, New Hampshire, to create a
new official map of the Village, and
WHEREAS, the Village Planning Board has reviewed the draft of the official map prepared
by CAI Technologies and has provided comments, and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened on January 10, 2024, adjourned, and then
closed on January 24, 2024,

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 3

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson formally accepts
and adopts the map as submitted by CAI Technologies, effective January 24, 2024.
Public Hearing to consider the application from ShopRite
Supermarkets, Inc. to renew the special permit to operate a retail
store at 460 South Riverside Avenue.
A motion was made by Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Simon
to open a Public Hearing to consider the application from Shoprite
Supermarkets, Inc. to renew the special permit to operate a retail store at
460 South Riverside Avenue, Croton on Hudson. Motion was approved with
a 5-0 vote.
P. Daniel Hollis, from the law firm of Hollis, Laidlaw and Simon representing
Shoprite stated that he is in full support of the resolution that addresses the
Maintenance Agreement between the landlord and the Village.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the agreement will require the
landlord to maintain the parking lot as required in the Site Plan Approval.
Trustee Nicholson stated that the Conservation Advisory Council has been
having discussions regarding “dark skies” and asked if the Maintenance
Agreement could include that as well.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that she will have to look at the Site Plan.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi.
Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #8-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on April 4, 2016, the Village Board of Trustees renewed the special permit for
ShopRite Supermarkets, Inc. to operate a retail store at 460 South Riverside Avenue, and

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 4

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received an application from ShopRite
Supermarkets, Inc. to renew the special permit to operate a retail store at 460 South
Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS a public hearing on the special permit renewal application was opened and
closed on January 24, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Planning Board has submitted a memorandum requesting that the
property maintenance agreement be drafted before the special permit be renewed,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby directs the
applicant to make an initial payment of $2,500 to be held in escrow for any necessary
professional services that may be required to assist the Village Board in developing the
property maintenance agreement.
4. RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL: None
5.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a.

Memo from Cristina Alvarez-Arnold, Chair of the Diversity & Inclusion
Committee, dated January 22, 2024, regarding their revised vision and
naming of the committee.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202401/04028145cd9851597dd1acc071bb5e3cded28772.pdf
Cristina Alvarez-Arnold, Chair of Diversity and Inclusion Committee
stated that after extensive discussions among the committee members
they are requesting to change the current name to “Inclusivity,
Diversity, Equity and Accessibility Advisory” (IDEA Advisory).
Trustee Simon commended the Committee for pushing this forward.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board
of Trustees approved changing the name of the “Diversity and
Inclusion Committee” to “Inclusivity, Diversity, Equity and Accessibility
Advisory” (IDEA Advisory). Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 5

b.

Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy dated January 18, 2024,
regarding the donation of funds by the Croton Rotary Club and Croton
Police Association to an inclusive playground swing at Senasqua Park.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202401/032074fd8bbe9ab6e138669f295ff0094ac54d01.pdf
Resolution:
On motion by Trustees Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the
Board of Trustees accepted a donation from the Croton Rotary Club in
the amount of $500.00 and the Croton Police Association in the
amount $1,000 towards an inclusive playground swing at Senasqua
Park. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.

c.

Public Notice of Completion and Public Hearing for the Draft
Environmental Impact Statement for the Chair Factory Site
Redevelopment in the Village of Haverstraw.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202401/4b324468e1138feb3dafa5f50202f02f9006f261.pdf

d.

Invitation from the American Legion Fox-Eklof Poast 505 to the
Merchant Marine Flag Ceremony on February 12, 2024.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202401/c4fa7f01d70071993852096f0da2746414441c2a.pdf
Village Manager Healy advised that they had been contacted by
numerous residents asking that the Village add a Merchant Marine flag
to our repertoire of service flags at Veteran’s Corners. Village Manager
Healy explained that Merchant Marines are not technically considered a
service branch, but they were deputized as a service branch during
WWII and if you want to fly their flag, you must get permission from
the United Stated Department of Transportation, our request has been
approved and they have provided the Village with a flag free of charge.

8.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ron Sanchez, 114 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, expressed his
concerns regarding the frailty of the Croton Gorge and does not believe that

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 6

the Department of Environmental Conservation has been good Stewards, he
believes that the parking spaces at the top of the ridge is the source of the
problem and recommended that the Village get more involved in protecting
the beauty of the Gorge.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson stated that he supports Mr.
Sanchez’s comments and believes that this property should be returned to
the Village of Croton since neither the Town of Cortlandt, State of New York
nor the County of Westchester take care of it, he believes that the Diversity,
Equity and Inclusive Committee does not represent everyone in Croton and
asked that their meetings be open to the community.
Kenna Weiner, Mount Airy Road South, Croton on Hudson, thanked the
Rotary Club and Croton Police Association for their donations towards an
inclusive playground swing at the Senasqua Park playground, she also
thanked emergency personnel who responded to an emergency situation at
the playground that involved a child getting stuck in the swing.
9.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #9-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to
provide for the administration and regulation of geothermal energy systems, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering taking an action to adopt Local Law
Introductory No. 1 of 2024 which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village has completed Part 1 of a Short Environmental Assessment Form
(EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF),
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is an-Unlisted
Action.
2. The Village Board hereby declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 7

purposes in connection with the Proposed Action.
3. The Village Board hereby issues the EAF and CAF which it has before it
in connection with the Proposed Action.
4. The Village Board hereby refers to the Village Planning Board the Draft Law
for a report back to the Village Board in accordance with Village law
.
5. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the
Village Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the
Village Board in accordance with Village Law.
6. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the
Westchester County Planning Board for review in accordance with law.
7. The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations and
notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
DISCUSSION
Village Manager Healy advised that our Sustainability Committee has recommended that
we put these regulations in place.
Resolution #10-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village currently has an open position in the Croton Police Department for
a Police Officer, and
WHEREAS Police Chief John H. Nikitopoulos has conducted an extensive background
check of Antonio G. Stenta and recommends the hiring of Mr. Stenta for the position of
Police Officer,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Antonio G. Stenta is hereby appointed as a Police
Officer in the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department as of January 24, 2024, at an annual
salary of $70,123.49, pending the passage of medical exams and approval from the
Westchester County Department of Human Resources.
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 8

Resolution #11-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with
a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of
the Village Code to update the provisions related to solar energy systems and establish
provisions related to battery energy storage systems, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 22 of 2023 was drafted for such purposes. and
WHEREAS on December 20, 2023, the local law was referred to the Village Planning Board,
Waterfront Advisory Committee and Westchester County Planning Board for review and
comment,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on February 7, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room
of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law Introductory No.
22 of 2023 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that this latest version has some helpful improvements that were
recommended by our Sustainability Committee Chair, Lindsay Audin, as well as feedback
from Sustainable Westchester.
Village Manager Healy advised that they incorporated most of the recommendations from
the Planning Board, we did not include the recommendation that tier II battery storage
systems could only be permitted on commercial properties, the Village Board had
discussed that previously and felt comfortable in allowing them in the RA-40 and RA-60
zones based on the size of those properties.
Resolution #12-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 5–0 vote.

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 9

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 179, Property
Maintenance, of the Village Code to provide for the removal of weeds, brush, and
rubbish, as well as the registration and maintenance of vacant commercial buildings, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 23 of 2023 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was previously opened and closed on January 10, 2024, and
WHEREAS since that time, a number of substantive changes have been made to the law
and the Board of Trustees wishes to provide members of the public another opportunity to
comment,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on February 7, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room
of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law Introductory No.
23 of 2023 to amend Chapter 179, Property Maintenance, of the Village Code.
Resolution #13 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees has recently adopted Local
Law 1 of 2024 to update regulations related to accessory apartments and permit
accessory cottages in residential districts, and
WHEREAS accessory apartments and accessory cottages together are known as
accessory dwelling units (hereinafter referred to as ADUs), and
WHEREAS New York State Homes and Community Renewal (HCR) operates a program to
provide funding to low- and middle-income homeowners who wish to build a new ADU on
their property or improve an existing ADU to be in compliance with local and state
regulations; and
WHEREAS this program is known as the Plus One ADU Program, and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to partner with the Housing Action Council and Habitat for
Humanity to submit a proposal to HCR to fund such a program for Croton-on-Hudson,

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 10

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorize
the Village Manager to execute the memorandum of understanding with the Housing
Action Council and Habitat for Humanity for the Plus One ADU Program.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Simon advised that he had the opportunity to sit in on a webinar with New York
State Homes and Community Renewal (HCR) on the “Plus One ADU” program, he
believes this will be a good fit for Croton and the kind of partnership they are
contemplating is essential as the steering mechanism for the program if we were to be
accepted.
Resolution #14
On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the Croton Free Library have had a
longstanding relationship throughout the years, and
WHEREAS it is the desire of the Village and the Library to continue to work collaboratively
for the joint benefit of their taxpayers, and
WHEREAS the Library provides many benefits to the taxpayers of the Village and the
Village therefore desires to assist the library and provide certain services for the benefit
of the library in exchange for the services provided by the library, and
WHEREAS the term of this agreement shall be for a period of five years,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to execute the agreement with the Croton Free Library for a period
of five years, pending final approval of the Village Attorney.
Resolution #15
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 11

WHEREAS on January 10, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Local Law No. 1 of
2024, amending Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to update regulations related
to accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages in residential districts, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees would like to encourage property owners to
legalize any existing accessory cottages and accessory apartments in the Village to
ensure the safety of the occupants, and
WHEREAS building construction undertaken without the necessary permitting from the
Engineering Department results in a penalty of fees being doubled when a property
owner seeks to legalize the construction, and
WHEREAS the Village Board would like to temporarily waive these penalties in order to
encourage property owners with existing accessory apartments or cottages to bring their
properties into compliance with current requirements,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby waives the
penalties associated with the legalization of existing construction undertaken without
permits to provide for an accessory apartment or accessory cottage for the period of
January 11, 2024, through April 12, 2024.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy encouraged anyone in this situation to reach out to the
Engineering Department as soon as possible.
Resolution #16
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has adopted local laws regarding building
construction, zoning and other regulations, which have been codified into the Village
Code, and
WHEREAS the Village has established the Engineering Department to provide oversight
and enforcement of these local laws, and
WHEREAS the Engineering Department also provides enforcement of the New York State
Building Code and the Property Maintenance Code, and
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 12

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees finds that code enforcement is of particular
importance to the health, safety and well-being of Village residents and
WHEREAS the Village has three employees who are certified code enforcement officers:
the Village Engineer, Assistant Village Engineer and the Fire Inspector,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby offers its
full support to the employees of the Engineering Department in the performance of their
duties as code enforcement officers, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees has the expectation that
any violations of Village, County or State codes will be handled swiftly and in an impartial
manner.
Resolution #17
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson understands the importance of taking actions
which will reduce carbon emissions, improve public transportation options, enhance
economic opportunity for our residents, and reduce congestion, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson notes that the West Side Access program
promises significant improvements to Westchester County and the Bronx by linking Metro
North’s New Haven Line service with Penn Station on the west side, and
WHEREAS similar improvements are being done to improve transportation for Amtrak
along Metro North’s Hudson Line, which runs through several crucial Hudson River
communities within Westchester, and
WHEREAS a parallel initiative to connect the Hudson Line to Penn Station could be
accomplished, promising reduced carbon emissions, improved public transportation
options, enhancing economic opportunity for Hudson River communities and the Bronx,
and reducing congestion,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson recommends
that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority undertake a comprehensive study to
evaluate the feasibility and potential benefits of establishing west side access from
Westchester County and the Bronx through the Hudson Line to Penn Station, and
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 13

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that after considerable deliberation, the Village of Croton-onHudson recommends that New York State conduct this study and feasibility assessment
and that the results of it be presented to regional stakeholders and residents.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that this is an initiative by County Executive George Latimer, and
he believes this makes a lot of sense.
Trustee Nicholson advised that the MTA did a study on the Hudson line expansion as part
of their twenty-year MTA needs assessment, and while it would be great to have the
Hudson line go to Penn Station, she is very concerned about the sustainability of the
Hudson line because of climate change and rising sea levels which were addressed in
their twenty-year plan.

10.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Tony Granger, Half Moon Bay, addressed his issues with respect to the 1
Half Moon Bay property and encouraged the Board to keep the community
informed.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed his concerns
regarding abortion, transportation housing, and equity fairness.

11.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
January 10, 2024, was made by Trustee Politi. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on January 10,
2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.

12.

REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson thanked the Arts and Humanities Council on a very
successful jazz series, attended the Eaglefest press conference this morning,
on February 3rd from 2-4pm the Croton Library there show a screening of a

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 14

documentary created by Croton Harmon High School students on “Lorraine
Hansberry in the 1960’s” , the Gouveia Working Group met this morning and
they will be presenting a memo to the Board in the coming weeks with their
recommendations for the property, the Conservation Advisory Council met
last evening and discussed Earth Day, the Police Advisory Committee met
with Superintendent of Schools Stephen Walker and the PAC to discuss
police officers in our schools.
Trustee Simon advised that a wonderful ceremony was held last week at the
Croton High School honoring Steve (Iggy) Aguado for his long-time support
of athletics, on Sunday, January 14th an interfaith service was held with
Croton clergy addressing some of the problems plaguing our society, the
Planning Board met last Tuesday and discussed a proposed community café
and theater, on January 17th he attended an IRS webinar on their process of
implementing direct pay with respect to cash payments for energy projects
we have done, the Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee received a briefing last
Thursday night from DPW Foreman Scott Marsh on the Gotwald Circle
project and talked about our Transportation Grant for sidewalks and other
pedestrian improvements, attended a meeting with Project Mover regarding
a bike/share program with Ossining, the River Journal had a great article on
Ann Marie Sasso, the Business Group will be meeting this coming Monday,
sent his condolences on the passing of Louise Giglio who passed away last
week and wished Congressman Richard Ottinger a happy 95th birthday.
Trustee Murtaugh reminded everyone that Teatown’s Eaglefest will be held
on February 3rd at Croton Point Park from 9am-4pm.
Trustee Politi congratulated the “Inclusivity, Diversity, Equity and
Accessibility Advisory” (IDEA Advisory) on their new name, Croton Pride will
be presenting a screening and discussion on a “Disclosure” documentary
about trans-depiction in film and television on Feb 6th at 5:30pm at the
Green Growler, thanked the Advisory Board of the Visual Environment and
the Planning Board for getting the sign design approved for the 43-45 Maple
Street Development.
Mayor Pugh made the following appointments:
Resolution
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 24, 2024
Page 15

On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the Board
of Trustees approved the following appointments:
Recreation Advisory
Recreation Advisory

Frances Catanio
Kyle Raum

Term Expiring December 2026
Term Expiring December 2026

Police Advisory
Police Advisory

Marie Considine
Miles Kafka

Term Expiring December 2025
Term Expiring December 2026

Village Manager Healy stated that he is pleased not to have to report on any
flooding this week, but he has been hard at work seeking out some funding
to start a “Resiliency Study” of our shoreline which we have determined is a
high priority, he also reached out to the National Weather Service and
Westchester County Emergency Management about getting a “Tidal Flooding
Gage” installed in Croton which would help to accurately forecast when
these events are going to take place, New York State has enacted
regulations for businesses with respect to credit card surcharge guidelines
and he will discuss those regulations at the next Business Group meeting,
the Tentative Assessment Roll will be available on February 1st and
encouraged residents to reach out to the Assessor if they have questions or
concerns.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting and enter into an Executive Session to discuss the proposed
acquisition, sale or lease of real property was made by Trustee Simon. The
motion was seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:45pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

.

