VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
DRAFT MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
THURSDAY April 11 , 2024

PRESENT:

Christine Wagner, Chairperson
James Tuman
Daron Weber
Doug Olcott
Rocco Mastronardi

ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, Assistant Engineer P.E.

1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting to order at 8:02p.m.

2. NEW BUSINESS
a) Rossoff, Fred & Jessica, Owners–80 Morningside Drive-Located in a RA-9 Residential District

and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 6 Lot
5. Request a total side yard variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-33A for a replacement
deck.
PRESENT: Mr. Fred. Rossoff, Owner
Mr. Lewis Roane, Architect
Mr. Roane introduced himself to the Board as the architect for the project. Mr. Rossoff stated he was the
property owner. Mr. Roane stated that his clients are looking to replace an existing deck with a bigger
deck and were requesting a total side yard variance of 3.68’ft but would ask to round that number up to
3.7’ft and specified that the stairs were not included in the setback request.
It was noted that the house was built prior to Zoning regulations and the left side of the structure was
legalized in 1986 with a side yard variance. Mr. Roane shared that there was a previously granted side
yard in 1986. Mr. Wegner stated that the variance was for the pre-existing house and the house at the
time met the total side yard setback requirement but needed a side yard variance to allow for the existing
house to sit between 6.62’ft and 6.84’ft from the side property line. Mr. Wegner added that the original
variance did not need to be revisited.
The Board clarified that the new, proposed deck would be 20’ft from the side yard property line therefore
requiring a total side yard variance not a side yard variance. Mr. Roane explained that the proposed deck
is slightly larger than the existing deck increasing its non-compliance. Mr. Wegner added that the
existing deck was not compliant but that it was irrelevant because the deck is being removed and replaced
requiring a combined side yard setback. It was noted that the existing deck was not built with the original
house and it was unknown if the deck was present when the 1986 variance was granted. Mr. Wegner
shared that there is a 2 larger deck located further back on the property but that it will be removed prior
to the construction of the new deck. Mr. Rosoff added that that both existing decks on the property would
nd

1

be removed and replaced with one larger deck. The Board agreed that the proposed project would help to
“clean-up” the property. Chairperson Wagner shared that the Board received two letters of support from
neighbors but asked the applicant if they received any opposition from 186 Old Post Road South as that
property sits directly below 80 Morningside Dr. The applicant stated that they did not hear of any
complaints.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the meeting to the public. Hearing no comment from the public, the
hearing was closed.
The Board reviewed and discussed the 5 Factors:
1.

No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties will be
produced by the granting of the variance.

2.

The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested variance; but
without as much usable space.

3.

The requested variance is not substantial.

4.

The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or environmental
conditions in the neighborhood or district;

5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a total side yard variance of 4’ ft for a rear deck. Seconded by
Mr. Olcott. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. All in Favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr.
Olcott, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes

b) AC General Contractor, Inc.—167 Maple Street-Located in a RB 2-Family Residential

District and designated on the Tax Maps of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.17 Block 4 Lot 37.
Request for a rear yard variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-34 for a proposed 2story rear deck for a 2-family house.
PRESENT: John Alfonzetti, Engineer
Mr. Alfonzetti introduced himself as the representative for the applicants, AC Construction. Mr.
Alfonzetti stated that the applicants were approved by the Planning Board to construct a new, 2-family
residence at 167 Maple Street and that he was present to request a variance for a 2-tier, rear deck. Mr.
Alfonzetti explained that the 2-story deck would allow for each family to have their own private outdoor
space. Mr. Alfonzetti stated that the property was a flag lot and that it is not visible from Grand Street or
Maple Street. Mr. Alfonzetti stated that they are applying for a 9’ft rear yard variance and noted that the
stairs were not included in the variance.
Mr. Alfonzetti provided new site pictures to the Board during the meeting to better illustrate the lot and
building site. The Board asked if a house ever existed on the lot. Mr. Alfonzetti replied stating that as
far as he knew there was never a house there and that it had always been a flag lot. Mr. Alfonzetti shared
2

that it was not part of the subdivision. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer added that the driveway
for the new residence was originally off Grand Street and it was the property that subdivided the lot.
Mr. Wegner stated that the house will be set relatively far back from the road. Mr. Alfonzetti added that
there is only one house that would see the decks and that they have not received any opposition from
them.
Mr. Wegner shared with the Board that the house was approved by the Planning Board and that the deck
was on the original plans when the Planning Board granted the site plan approval. It was made clear that
the variance request was only for the 2-story deck. The Board asked if there would be an egress issued,
Mr. Alfonzetti stated there would not be because it is a 2-family house.
The Board asked what the grading of the property was like by the stone wall. Mr. Alfonzetti described it
as being “almost dead level flat.” The Board asked Mr. Wegner if the house of the original owner of the
driveway was a 1 or 2 family. Mr. Wegner sated that he believes it was a single-family home.
The Board discussed and agreed that they were not large decks in practicality and for this type of structure
they would be a nice enhancement. Furthermore, the Board noted that it is likely that if the decks were not
a part of the original build, chances are they may consider adding decks in the future.
Chairperson Wagner opened the public hearing. With no one being heard, the public hearing was
closed. And the meeting was opened for discussion from the Board.
The Board reviewed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties
will be produced by the granting of the variance.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
The Board discussed and agreed that the request was fairly substantial but mitigated by how deep
and setback the lot is.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Weber made a motion to grant a rear yard variance of 9’ ft for a 2-story deck for a 2-family
residence. Seconded by Mr. Mastronardi. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0. All in Favor. Roll
Call: Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes.
3

c) O’Keefe, Susan & Chris, Tenants/Business Owners, Baked By Susan—379 South Riverside

Ave-Located in C-2 General Commercial and Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay
District and designated on the Tax Maps of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Blk 2 Lot
26. Request for an amendment to a previously granted variance from Village Zoning Code
Section 230-51A requesting the removal of the condition to purchase seven (7) Village issued
parking permits to offset the lack of required on-site parking.
PRESENT: Chris and Susan O’Keefe, Tenants/Business Owners of Baked By Susan
Chairperson Wagner called the applicants, Mr. & Mrs. O’Keefe forward and requested they
provide a full background of their application as there were new members on the Board since the
granting of the previous variance in 2019.
Mr. O’Keefe introduced himself to the Board and thanked them for their time and services. Mr.
O’Keefe stated that before their application was heard, he wanted to formally request that their
application be sent back to the Planning Board for review. Mr. O’Keefe shared that he felt they
were initially sent to the Zoning Board in error with the incorrect number of off-street parking
spot requirements given the proposed setup they were going to have. Mr. O’Keefe shared that
since COVID, they rearranged their available indoor seating (reducing the number of seats to 20)
and believed they currently met bulk parking regulations and no longer needed the variance
requiring the purchase of 7 additional off-street parking permits from the Village.
Mr. O’Keefe added that as they have 450 sq ft of service and retail space which they had 2 spaces
for. Mr. O’Keefe stated that they believed the extra spaces were no longer warranted and did not
need the 7 required off-street parking permits based on the retail/service area square footage. Mr.
O’Keefe again asked for the ZBA to refer their application back to the Planning Board for review
as they are not seeking a variance because the required 7 spots are available behind the building.
The Board asked the applicant if they had any communications with the Planning Board. Mr.
O’Keefe stated they had not had correspondence with the Planning Board. Mr. O’Keefe shared
that several weeks ago they had been contacted by the Village and told that if they did not
purchase the required permits for the off-street parking spaces, the Village would issue a violation
for not following the conditions of the variance granted in May 2019.
The Board then clarified how the off-street parking requirements were originally determined. Mr.
Wegner, Village Engineer explained that the building has eight (8) 1-bedroom units on the upper
stories which require 1 off-street parking space for every bedroom therefore totaling a
requirement of 8 off-street parking spaces (for the residential stories). Mr. Wegner further
explained that there was also a requirement to have 1 off-street space for every 250 square feet of
commercial space and there is a total of 2,500 sq ft therefore 11 off-street spaces are required for
the entire 1st floor of the commercial area. Mr. Wegner stated that when including the
apartments, the total site requirement for off-street parking spaces were determined to be 19. Mr.
Wegner further explained that the site was designed and approved by the Planning Board to have
enough off-street spaces without requiring a variance to accommodate the commercial space but
when the seating for Baked By Susan was increased to 28 seats (after site approval) is when the
variance became required. The condition requiring the purchasing of Village parking permits for
off-street spaces was because with 28 seats, every 4 seats require 1 off-street parking spot
therefore 7 additional spots were required.
4

Mr. O’Keefe then shared his belief that the major flaw was with the original Planning Board
approval of the required number of spaces which he stated were determined and approved based
on the full, unoccupied commercial floor space of 2,500 sq ft. Mr. O’Keefe expressed that his
issue was that once the space was built out, only the service area should have been counted, not
the entire open undefined space. Mr. O’Keefe stated that once the space was divided and built
out, they had to go to the Planning Board for a change of use permit and he felt the space should
have been considered differently and that the parking requirements should have been based on the
service area for customers and work space, not the portion that is used for storage.
The floor space that should be counted towards parking requirements was questioned and
debated.
The Board then asked Mr. O’Keefe where in the code it supported his argument and stated it
seemed that he was making an interpretation of the code. Mr. O’Keefe was unable to provide
evidence from the code to support his argument regarding the definition of retail space but
claimed the misinterpretation took place when the original building was approved.
Mr. O’Keefe again requested that the application be heard by the Planning Board for an interpretation.
The Board asked the applicant for clarification if the argument was that they felt the space was being
double counted. Mr. O’Keefe confirmed that that was exactly their argument, that they were being asked
to meet the regulations for the undefined space of 2,500 sq ft but then after defining the space, that the
defined retail and service space is just a portion of the total space and therefore the required number of
off-street parking spaces should be less. The Board then asked what Mr. O’Keefe would consider the rest
of their space if not retail. Mr. O’Keefe stated that the rest of the space was workspace and wholesale
space. The Board then asked where he was getting his definition of retail/service space from. Mr.
O’Keefe replied he looked it up in the dictionary. The Board clarified that the code did not specifically
define what retail space was and therefore felt that the applicant was arguing his interpretation of the
code.
Chairperson Wagner stated that the Board could not resolve the matter at the present meeting because
there were several issues at hand that needed to be addressed. The first matter was because the applicant
was requesting to be heard by the Planning Board that they then had to determine who the governing body
would be to make the assessment on the application (Planning Board or Zoning Board). Furthermore, the
applicants were asking for an interpretation but that application was submitted for an area variance. Mr.
Wegner added that they would have to consider whether this should be an application for an
interpretation.
Ms. O’Keefe then shared that at the May 8th 2019 meeting there was a statement made that the business
could return to the Board to revisit the issue of the parking once they were opened for business when they
would have a better understanding of traffic and that they could apply for an amendment to the variance.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the meeting for public comment but noted that it should be kept in mind
that there were 2 issues at hand: 1) defining the code and interpretation of code and 2) if the additional
off-street parking spaces are needed or if they can be removed from the variance that was granted in
2019.
Chairperson Wagner invited the public up to speak and reminded them the meeting will remain open and
be carried over to next month's regularly scheduled meeting.

5

Mr. Michael Mamone and Kathleen Mamone of 19 Young Avenue came forward to speak.
Mr. Mamone read a written statement (attached) expressing his concerns over the on-street
parking situation in the area and the negative effects that withdrawing/not enforcing the condition
for Baked By Susan to have the additional off-street parking. Mr. Mamone requested that the
Board give the residential owners consideration in the matter. Mr. Mamone asked that they
consider where patrons will park and the negative impact that revoking the condition could have
on the traffic and safety in the area. Mr. Mamone expressed his concerns with Baked By Susan’s
liquor license application and how seating and parking may be impacted by their hosting of
dinner parties.
The Board asked Mr. Mamone if when the first application was heard, had he ever approached the Village
Board with his concerns. Mr. Mamone shared that a poll for the residence in the neighborhood was sent
out.

Mr. Jan Klier of 33 Young Ave came forward to speak.
Mr. Klier stated he resided on Young Ave (when making the right turn off Benedict when coming
from Baked By Susan). Mr. Klier stated that they had been involved with the parking issue since
the original Zoning Board application in 2019 when he submitted comments to the Board
regarding the parking issues. Mr. Klier shared he submitted 2 pictures on April 10, 2024 in
regards to the current application. Mr. Klier expressed he was overall happy with the vital
business district in the area and supported Baked By Susan as a business however felt strongly the
Village has to address the issues with the commercial parking felt that the parking was
inconsistent with how the businesses are laid out. Mr. Klier referenced the Salon M car parked
on the street as seen in one of the submitted photographs and stated that he felt employee parking
as well as customer parking were both issues to be considered. Mr. Klier discussed the layout of
the parking lot in the rear of the building and stated that there is a lot of traffic going in and out
and if it is difficult to access people will go the path of least resistance and park on the street and
same for employees if they are being asked to park down by Shoprite. Mr. Klier was asking that
the Board take into consideration what people will actually do; what is the easiest and most
convenient. Furthermore, Mr. Klier stated that from his perspective, what really needed to be
looked at was how commercial parking has impacted the residential neighborhood and asked that
it be balanced out. Mr. Klier shared that he felt that how the lack of the parking permit system
has negatively impacted his block should be examined. Mr. Klier shared that he had originally
submitted comments to the Village Board regarding the matter but did not have any discussions
with them. Mr. Klier added that the issue of visibility with the on-street parking should be
examined as well and felt that it was unfortunate Baked By Susan was getting caught up in the
variance because this is a greater issue that should be looked at. Mr. Klier then addressed the
point raised by the applicants regarding the consideration of how much square footage should be
counted and felt there would be some logic to the point if the rest of the space was storage space
but it is prep space occupied by employees and employees need parking spaces and while current
employees may walk, future employee transportation has to be accounted for.
The Board thanked Mr. Klier for his comment and Chairperson Wagner asked the applicants if
they wanted to respond or wait until the issue of interpretation was resolved.

6

The applicants chose to respond to the public. Ms. O’Keefe thanked the public for coming out to
share and while some of the issues could be revisited later, Ms. O’Keefe wanted to share that
when they originally applied in 2019, they conducted a traffic study and it remains on record.
Ms. O’Keefe shared that they also took more recent pictures of the area and stated that she is
there every day and has seen the streets be empty. Ms. O’Keefe claimed that cars associated with
their business are not parking on Oneida Ave but confirmed they are parking on Benedict
Blvd. Ms. O’Keefe replied to Mr. Mamone, referencing their commercial truck being parked on
the street and stated they always use one of the spots in the rear of the building for their truck as
they know it is large and would never park it in front of someone’s home. Ms. O’Keefe shared
that she could relate to the residents in the neighborhood near Baked by Susan as they reside on
Farrington Rd and experience traffic and parking congestion on their street for patrons for The
Tavern on Riverside Drive.
Ms. O’Keefe discussed that at the time, providing parking at Shoprite was dangerous to walk to
the business prior to the Village installing sidewalks and walkway approximately 1-year ago.
Furthermore, she responded to Mr. Mamone’s comment said they had no intention of operating as
a bar and that the liquor license would be to serve alcohol at the dinner parties they host and are
considering the idea of having brunches or having beverages when there is live music. It was
noted that the business closes at 6:00p.m.
Mr. O’Keefe concluded by saying that they originally came before the Board to seek a variance
and that they are currently only asking for what is required of them, to not be double counted, and
not asking to be excused.
The Board asked where exactly the parking spots to be purchased were located. Mr. O’Keefe
stated that the original offer was to purchase permits/spots down at ShopRite which was
challenging because the Blaze for 3 months out of the year made those spots inaccessible and the
other alternative was going by the train station. Mr. O’Keefe also asked the Board to consider
that during COVID businesses were essentially shut down and felt to be viewed as a fully
operating business for those first two years was unfair.
The Board asked if the two spots that were purchased were at ShopRite. Ms. O’Keefe stated they
were not, that they were at the lot at the dead-end of Benedict Blvd. The Board asked if they
could purchase additional spots in that lot. Mr. O’Keefe argued that while asked to purchase 7
permits for 7 spots, at any given time, they only have 2 employees that drive. While they have 9
employees, the majority do not drive and felt they were being forced to purchase spots they do
not need.
Mr. O’Keefe stated the basic premise is that they felt they have met the zoning requirements and
do not need a variance so they have asked that the Planning Board review and either make an
interpretation or send it back to the Zoning Board for an interpretation.
Chairperson Wagner stated that while the Board could continue to discuss the application, before
they proceed, an informed review analysis of the code and interpretation has to be done.
The Board briefly revisited how the required number of parking spots were determined and
wanted to note that the 2500 square feet was for the entire commercial space that had then been
subdivided into two spaces: Salon M and Baked-By-Susan. Mr. Wegner clarified that 11 spots
were required for the entire commercial space and that ¾ of the 11 required spaces belonged to
Baked By Susan.
7

Ms. O’Keefe requested that the Board take into consideration the differences between their
business and the Salon’s business because she felt it was not an “apples-to-apples” comparison.
The Board then asked if they would like to respond on record as to what the number of seats they
have.
The applicants said they would and stated they currently have 20 seats available for patrons. The
Board asked if the 20 seats are consistent because the space is fluid and can change depending on
the events being held there and asked if they add and take away tables depending on the events
being held there. Mr. O’Keefe stated “it is pretty much consistent.”

Ms. Mamone stated she was frustrated that she felt the business owners believed they don’t need
to purchase and provide the required off-street parking spaces and questioned who was looking
out for the residents and pedestrians in the neighborhood. Mr. Mamone added that the code and
laws need to be obeyed.
Mr. Klier added he wanted to respond to the issue of zoning when looking at uniform spots and
emphasized that he felt it was important to know and consider what the code number requirements are for
parking to create uniformity.
Mr. Mamone stated he had a few more points he would like to make a few more points regarding
the Blaze and how he felt it was a hindrance to Baked By Susan and felt it was simple for the
Village Board to demand the Blaze provide spots to the business. Mr. Mamone added that he also
wanted to address the code and that he believed that based on calculations and regulations, the
building itself had correct number of spots.
Chairperson Wagner drew the discussion to a close by stating they were leaving the public hearing open
as it has to be determined which Board has authority over the interpretation of the relevant code
provisions, which may involve consulting the Village attorney. Chairperson Wagner stated that if the
public had unique thoughts in the future, they are welcome to share but that the Board has their comments
thus far on record. Discussions were paused, the public hearing remained open and the applicants were
informed that they would be informed which Board they would be returning to.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Mr. Tuman made a motion to approve the March 21, 2024 minutes. Seconded by
Chairperson Wagner. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. All in Favor. (Mr.
Mastronardi, abstained).

4. ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was duly adjourned at 9:40 pm.

Respectfully Submitted by,
8

Stefanie Correale
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

9

