APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, September 26, 2023
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), C. Colombo (133), C. Sarcone (259), E. Carlino
(596), J. Streany (275), J. Ferguson (164), D. Vlad (318), B. Powers (474), W. Skiba (267), T.
Kaplan (501), K. Goldstein (576), G. Tucci (284)
EXCUSED: M. Feminella (162)
Department Members: E. Conti (137), J. Delaney (350), D. Dunn (342), S. Bjorge (547), S.
Peluso (629), F. Streany (274)
Others in Attendance: None
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Chief Munson at 19:00. This evening’s meeting dedicated to former CFD
Dispatcher, Mother of Past Chief Chris Pesavento and long-time spouse of Past Chief Ricky
Sperano, Mary Pesavento.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: None
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion D. Vlad / 2nd K. Goldstein to approve August Fire Council Minutes – CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
• Application for Active Membership with Columbian Hook & Ladder received from Leman
Duggan. Motion D. Vlad/2nd J. Ferguson to approve pending favorable background check –
CARRIED.
• Application for Active Membership with Washington Engine Company received from
Scott McKenna. Motion J. Streany/2nd D. Vlad to approve pending favorable background
check – CARRIED.
• Application for Active Membership with Croton Fire Patrol received from Daniel Bennett.
Motion G. Tucci/2nd J. Karpoff to approve pending favorable background check – CARRIED.
• Letters from Washington Engine, Harmon Engine and Croton Fire Patrol listing
nomination of Company Officers for 2024. Motion J. Karpoff/2nd J. Streany to send to
Investigation Committee – CARRIED.
• Bill from Rescuestuff for Years of Service pins in the amount of $2,448.00. Motion J.
Ferguson/2nd J. Karpoff to pay said bill – CARRIED.
Reports of the Chiefs
C. Colombo (2083) (Late)
•
•

Was notified of roof leak at Harmon Firehouse over Fire Patrol’s Lounge.
Working with WECO to install a Decon Shower at Washington Engine Firehouse.

J. Karpoff (2082)
•

Thanked all for their efforts at annual Inspection.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, September 26, 2023
•

•
•

County continues to schedule training courses. If members sign up for training and
need permission slips, equipment, etc. “stay on top of him” and keep sending emails
and text messages so he remembers to get it done.
Members with out-of-date physicals will not be permitted to take training classes.
Question from F. Streany asking Chief Karpoff his intentions to continue on as Chief of
Department – Chief Karpoff stated he does want to take over the position and a brief
discussion followed.

J. Munson (2081)
•
•

•

•

•

Thanked all for a successful Inspection. Was proud to lead department knowing the
amount of time and commitment everyone made for it.
Rig Updates – E119 had additional air leak repaired, E120 had an issue with ladder rack,
T10 dump chutes continue to leak air, awaiting correct parts, new M32 in service behind
Grand Street Firehouse.
Training – Drills planned using old Croton EMS house before it is knocked down. Officer
Development Course is complete. Live Burn training day in New Haven scheduled for
11/25/23. New Member Orientation Training will be held on 10/18/23.
Events – CFD participating in Montrose FD Softball Tournament this Saturday 9/30.
Rotary Club Car Show this Sunday 10/1. Fire Prevention details on 10/2 and 10/4. Fire
Fair on 10/8. Holiday Party on 12/30.
Projects – E118 Bay Floor should be poured next week. TL44 gym area work still on
DPW radar for this Fall. IT project is 95% done at all 3 Firehouses. WECO shower work
planned. Harmon Firehouse expansion project meeting was canceled by village, no new
date scheduled as of yet. New TL44 specs done and sent to Village. No progress on new
M12. First part of multi-year cancer reduction plan in progress, as new hoods and gas
detection equipment for overhaul have been ordered. Comment from B. Powers that
the assistance setting up for/cleaning up after Inspection was minimal.

Reports of Committees
Fire Prevention – T. Kaplan reports Fire Fair will be on Sunday 10/8. Materials have come in.
Preparation work night scheduled for Monday 10/2 at 19:00 at Harmon. CET Visit morning of
10/4/23. Fire Fair on 10/8.
TL44 Replacement – T. Kaplan reports committee finished specs, Company approved them,
working with Chief Munson on equipment list to add to specs and awaiting next step of process.
Explorer Post – J. Delaney reports he and others will be at Croton-Harmon High School
Wedneday 9/27 as part of Community Service day.
Investigation Committee – J. Munson requested one representative per Company. E. Carlino
(118), M. Feminella (119), B. Powers (120), W. Skiba (44) and K. Russell (R18) appointed with
M. Feminella as committee chair.
Special Order of Business: None

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, September 26, 2023
Unfinished Business:
J. Streany made a motion to close all nominations for 2024. Discussion followed due to
Chemical Engine and Ladder Companies having failed to do so to date. Motion J. Streany/2nd J.
Ferguson to close nominations for all officer positions for 2024 – CARRIED. Those two
Companies will have to write-in their choices for Company Officers, pending Investigation
Committee approval.
New Business:
J. Delaney states that Harmon Engine is requesting to hold a parade as part of Summerfest
2024 to celebrate their 100th anniversary. Motion J. Karpoff/2nd J. Ferguson to request to do so
from Village – CARRIED.
D. Vlad reports S. Peluso will begin NYS Police academy soon and would like to go on School
Leave.
Motion J. Streany/2nd J. Ferguson to vote on proposed change to Article 2 of By-Law for a onetime extension of Chief’s Term for a third year – DENIED (4 in Favor, 7 Opposed)
Question from F. Streany whether members are considered “in service” the day of a physical or
when it is cleared by MD – J. Munson reports it has to be when D. Holder receives notification
from MD and is effective date per that MD.
Question from F. Streany whether members are in “Good Standing” if they do not take annually
required training. J. Munson reports that the policy of the department is members must take it
annually by June or they are not.
F. Streany reminded all Companies that the Companies pay for Ex-Captain/current Officer
badges, not the Department.
F. Streany reports new records management system won’t be live until November 20-21, and
we are unable to process any reports until that time.
W. Skiba reports new member C. Traver needs bunker pants in date. J. Munson reports he is
aware of it and working with TL44 Captain to take care of it.
J. Streany questioned residency of 2nd Assistant Chief nominee C. Caterino and whether J.
Karpoff can run for a Chief position if medically out of service. A discussion followed, both
matters to be determined by Investigation Committee.
Treasurer’s Report: None provided.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad /2nd G. Tucci – CARRIED. M eeting Adjourned at 20:03.

Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 9/ 27/ 23.

