A Work Session of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY was held on
Wednesday, May 15, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi

Village Manager Healy
Emily Giovanni, Assistant to the
Village Manager
Linda Whitehead, Village Attorney

The Mayor appointed Paige Jones to the Police Advisory Committee, following a motion by Trustee
Politi, seconded by Trustee Simon.
The Board discussed establishing a Help, Exemplify, Aid, Respect, Teach (HEART) Committee to
honor Croton residents, businesses, or groups, either living or deceased, who have significantly
contributed to the betterment of the Village. The Board reviewed possible tax exemptions that could
be available through the Real Property Tax Law, examining how these exemptions could benefit
property owners and align with local policies. The session included a review of the current Street
Vendor License Policy and proposed changes to better manage street vending. An update was
provided on the proposed residential parking permit system along Truesdale Drive, Nordica Drive,
and Cedar Lane.
The following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees at the work session:
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on-Hudson, New York, with a 5-0
vote.
Resolution #98-2024
WHEREAS, the Indian Brook – Croton Gorge Conservation Action Plan was completed in 2007 to
help preserve this natural area in Westchester County; and
WHEREAS, since that time, the Town of Cortlandt, Town of New Castle, Town of Ossining,
Village of Ossining and Village of Croton-on-Hudson have worked together to implement various
aspects of the plan; and
WHEREAS, the five municipalities received grant funding from New York State to implement an
overlay zoning district for areas of the watershed; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Village has completed Part 1 of a Short Environmental Assessment
Form (EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF),
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

1. The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is an Unlisted Action.
2. The Village Board hereby declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in
connection with the Proposed Action.
3. The Village Board hereby issues the EAF and CAF which it has before it in connection
with the Proposed Action.
4. The Village Board hereby refers to the Village Planning Board the Draft Law for a
report back to the Village Board in accordance with Village law.
5. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the Village
Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the Village Board in
accordance with Village Law.
6. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF the Westchester
County Planning Board for review in accordance with law.
7. The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations and
notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
Dated: May 15, 2024
Respectfully Summitted,
Emily Giovanni, Assistant to the Village Manager
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

