VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
DRAFT MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
THURSDAY, JANUARY 11, 2024

PRESENT:

Christine Wagner, Chairperson
James Tuman
Daron Weber
Rocco Mastronardi

ABSENT:

Doug Olcott

ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, Assistant Engineer P.E.

Mayor Pugh, Village Trustee Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:
Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting to order on January 11, 2024 at
8 p.m.

2. OLD BUSINESS:
a) Oroszlany, Peter, Owner--41 Harrison Street-Located in a RB 2-Family Residential
District and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
68.17 Block 2 Lot 22. Request for a front yard variance from Village Zoning Code Section
230-40B and a height variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40A(1)(a) for a
proposed 4-car garage.
PRESENT: Peter Oroszlany, owner
John Power, owner
Chairperson Wagner asked Mr. Power to briefly summarize the application from the previous meeting.
Mr. Power stated that they were returning after a site visit (held on January 6, 2024) for a proposed
detached garage that required 2 variances. Mr. Power stated that the 1st variance request was for the
proposed structure to be closer to street than the primary structure and that the 2nd request was for a
height variance to allow for ample storage above (attic area). Mr. Power explained that the new garage
would be set back further from the front property line than the existing garage. The Board asked Mr.
Power how much further back the garage would be in comparison to the existing garage. Mr. Power
stated it would be approximately 9-10 feet further back from.

1

Chairperson Wagner asked the Board if they had any outstanding questions for the applicants. They did
not and noted that the site visit was very helpful in gaining a better understanding of the lot in reference to
the request.
Chairperson Wagner stated that the hearing was left open and asked if anyone from the public wanted to
be heard on the application. Hearing no comment, Chairperson Wagner then closed the public hearing.
The Board discussed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board agreed that the garage would help to improve the condition of the property and would not
have a negative impact on the near-by properties.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance.
The Board discussed that the location of the garage could be pushed back from the street but in doing so
it would cause a lot of disturbance of earth. The possibility that the structure could be built to solely
house cars (without storage above) which would eliminate the need for a height variance was also
discussed. However, the Board agreed that these alternative approaches would present issues such as
extensive disturbance of earth and would not fully meet the desired outcome.
3. The requested variance is substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant a variance for an accessory building (garage) nearer to the street
than the principal building and a height variance of 8.5’ft for a 4-car garage seconded by Mr. Mastronardi. The
motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. All in Favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr.
Weber, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes (Mr. Olcott, absent).

b) Dillon, Matthew, Owner—100 Young Ave—Located in a RA-5 Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 1
Lot 13. Request for a variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40H(1) for a fence
over 4 feet in height and more than 50% solid in a front yard.

PRESENT: Matthew Dillion, owner
Mr. Dillon began by summarizing his application that was left open from the December 2023 meeting.
Mr. Dillon stated that he had made a request for a variance for a 4’ft solid fence because his property is on
a corner lot and even though it appears to be his backyard, it is technically his front yard which sits closer
to Young Ave. Mr. Dillon explained that what initiated the request for a solid fence in the front yard.
The applicant share that they had been working with a dog trainer for a year because the dog gets very
2

excited when it sees other dogs so the trainer suggested zip tying a solid tarp to the existing chicken wire
type fence to create a screen. Mr. Dillon stated that it was a lot of zip ties and was also very unsightly
therefore he felt a solid fence would be a better solution. Mr. Dillon expressed that fence would be more
beneficial to the dog, their small child as well as be more aesthetically pleasing. While the original
request was for a 4’ft solid fence in the front yard along Young Ave and one 6’ft fence panel to match the
existing fence, it was recommended by the Board at the previous meeting that Mr. Dillon to come up with
an alternative fence solution as they did not support the idea of 4’ft solid fence in the front. With that
recommendation, Mr. Dillion stated he was now requesting a 3’ft solid fence with a 1ft lattice top.
Mr. Dillon then referenced the site visit from the Board that took place on January 6th 2024, where he felt
they were able to see that the fence would not be blocking the site line on the corner and that the fence
would be a part of a larger effort to “clean up” the front sloped area of the property.

Chairperson Wagner asked the Board if they had any additional thoughts on the application. The
Board noted that the 3ft solid fence with the 1ft lattice top was a more reasonable request and a
great improvement from what had been presented at the December meeting. Chairperson
Wagner then turned the meeting back over to the public asking if anyone wanted to be heard on
the application. Hearing no one, the public hearing was closed.
The Board discussed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board discussed their previous concerns about the request and the importance of how fence laws are
enforced in the Village however they noted that corner lots often present a unique challenge in that their
back/side yards are partially in the front yard. Therefore, the Board agreed that a 3’ft solid fence with a
see-through top was a fair request, would be less offensive and would not have a negative impact on the
neighborhood.
2. The benefit sought by the applicant can be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance;
The Board discussed if plantings could be used to create a privacy screen however it was agreed that with
the slope it would be challenging to achieve solid coverage. The Board agreed that the applicant could
possibly utilize an alternative method but that it would not be as aesthetically effective.
3. The requested variance is not substantial.
4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Mastronardi made a motion to grant a variance for a fence that is 4’ft in height 3ft in
height (solid) 1’ft top lattice). Seconded by Mr. Weber. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. All in
Favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes (Mr.
Olcott, absent).

3

3. NEW BUSINESS

a. Lewis Roane, Architect, representing Marjorie & Vincent Deprez (owners)—34
Morningside Drive—Located in a RA-9 Residential District and designated on the Tax
Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 6 Lot 33. Request for side
yard, front yard, and rear yard variances from Village Zoning Code Section 230-33A as well
as for a variance from Village Zoning Code Section 230-53A(1) for enlarging a nonconforming use for a proposed addition and rear deck to an existing 3-family house.
PRESENT: Lewis Roane, Architect
Mr. Roane introduced himself to the Board as the architect for the proposed project at 34 Morningside
Drive and that he was representing the owners, Mr. & Mrs. Deprez. Mr. Roane stated they are seeking a
front yard variance to allow the owners to build up for an addition. Mr. Roane explained they were
looking to use the existing foundation wall and to build up from the existing footprint. He shared with the
Board that the addition would allow for 2-bedrooms upstairs while and would extend the living area as
well.
The Board noted that the applicants had been before the Board 2 years prior and were granted several
variances but that the project for those variances were never started. Mr. Roane stated that the variances
were granted to a previous architect for a more expansive project that included expanding sideways
adding a large carport, expanding back with a large retaining wall that included decks and a complete
internal reconfiguration of the floor plans. Mr. Roane shared that a major difference in the designs is with
the front roof line, elaborating that the original roof above the first floor was more sloped toward the
street but because they would now like to build up, it will change that line and view from the street. Mr.
Roane stated that while staying within the existing footprint the structure would have a greater presence
just by the nature of it being 2-stories but added it would not be wider as they are not adding out as in
their previously proposed project. Mr. Roane shared that they explored alternate designs to attempt to
minimize the impact but it would have required a complete reconfiguration of the ground floor which
would be costly. Mr. Roane further explained that with the current proposed addition, the bulk of the
work would be contained within the addition keeping it more cost effective by limiting the bulk of the
work within the addition adding that the new stairs are all in the new construction area rather than
reframing the whole lower level just to accommodate stairs
The Board briefly reviewed the previous variances granted and noted that the proposed plan and design
was a completely different project than what had been originally presented to the Board 2 years ago. Mr.
Roane agreed that it is a very different project and shared that when Mr. & Mrs. Deprez had the
previously approved design priced out for construction, it completely blew their budget and required that
they go back to the drawing board, hence their new application.
Chairperson Wagner noted that there were several letters of neighbor support provided to the Board but
asked Mr. Roane if they had heard any negative comments from the neighbors. The applicant stated that
they did not receive any negative feedback. The Board further noted that the variances being requested
were far less extensive than those previously granted.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the public hearing. There being not comment from the public, the
hearing was closed.

4

The Board reviewed and discussed the 5 Factors:

1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.
The Board agreed that while the structure may be taller in height, it is not any closer to the street and that
the work to the structure would be an improvement to the neighborhood. The Board reiterated that there
was only neighbor support and no opposition.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance.
The Board discussed that given the topography of the lot (steep slope) it would not be possible to extend
out there for adding up is the most feasible option.

3. The requested variance is substantial.

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district.
5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
MOTION: Mr. Weber made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 10’ft, a front yard of 15’ft and a
rear yard variance of 2’ft and a variance allowing the expansion of a non-conforming use. Seconded by
Chairperson Wagner. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. All in Favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes,
Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes (Mr. Olcott, absent).

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the November 8, 2023 minutes. Seconded by
Mr. Weber. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. All in Favor. (Mr. Olcott, absent).
Mr. Tuman made a motion to approve the December 13, 2023 minutes. Seconded by Mr.
Mastronardi. The motion carried by a vote of 3-0. All in Favor. (Chairperson Wagner,
abstained, Mr. Olcott, absent).
5.ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was duly adjourned at 8:34 p.m.

Respectfully Submitted by,
Stefanie Correale
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals
5

