Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, May 8, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Simon

1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23245688 through 23245892. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$344,341.86
$23,955.35
$1,781.41
$12,727.59
$501.82

3.

RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL – none.

4.

CORRESPONDENCE
a. Letter from the Westchester Municipal Planning Federation providing
notification that the “Maple Commons” project has been awarded its
Planning Achievement Award.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202405/2b3cd585e7888732d55d8f7cb8bf46bee5869d26.pdf
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Westchester Municipal
Planning Federation will be awarding the “Legacy Award”
posthumously to Ann Gallelli in recognition of her many years of
service to the organization serving as a Board Member and President
as well as recognizing all the contributions she made to Croton.

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 2

b. Letter from Denise Harrigton-Cohen, Assistant Superintendent for
Business at Croton-Harmon Union Free School District, requesting a
fee waiver for certain project costs at PVC Middle School.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202405/f67a2dd3512bb9a2bd79da576bcd0057d9137168.pdf
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board
of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved waiving the
backflow preventer application permit fee to the Croton-Harmon Union
Fee School District. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
c. Public Notice from the Westchester County Rent Guidelines Board
regarding June 2024 public meetings and hearings.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202405/d46473cd9ebec66b88f64e0d373721e67dbec23f.pdf
5.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he would
rather see three story townhouses as opposed to a massive five-story
building on the A Lot property, he is concerned that we opened our borders
to millions yet we have no place for these people to live, objected to the
Board including buildings with 6 or more apartments in the Rent Guidelines
Law, concerned with the effects of allowing Marijuana and vaping shops in
the Village.
Kurt Carlson, 231 Hession Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
extremely disappointed with the proposed Telecommunications law, the
Telecommunications Advisory Committee, in their first letter to the Board,
highlighted their concerns that the draft law had a biased process showing
that it favored revenue for the Village over residents’ needs, and their follow
up letter of May 2nd continued to address their concerns and does not want
the Board to move forward on a flawed law.
Aaron Lamar, 228 Hession Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
believes that the Telecommunications draft law continues to create a biased
with respect to site selection, the Telecommunications Advisory Committee
worked hard in creating requirements that would ensure that all proposals

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 3

demonstrate that the proposed site is ideal and that multiple sites were
considered and is concerned that this law would allow the Board to waive
these key requirements, the law now includes family residences in the RA40
Zoning District with lots that have a minimum based elevation of 500 feet
above sea level, and is concerned that this will guide proposals to this site,
adding additional cell towers will not likely cover all of Croton and does not
support the idea that we should not worry about the flaws in the law,
because the Board can come back and amend it later on. Mr. Lamar urged
the Board to look at small cell solutions and asked that the May 2nd
Telecommunications Advisory Committee’s letter be added to the public
record.
George Ivanoff, 233 Hessian Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
believes that the elevation of 500 feet above sea level is a backdoor attempt
to put a tower at 230 Hession Hills, this is an RA40 Zone that encompasses
three properties and does not understand the need to push through an
incomplete and flawed Code and asked the Board to reconsider any
acceptance of this Code until changes have been made, there are other
technologies that are being pursued in other communities such as small cell
systems that operate in tandem with existing facilities and offer far less
radiation.
David Granger, 45 Lounsbury Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
opposed to the proposed law, and would like the Board to explore all
alternatives before allowing another cell tower in Croton.
Renee Curci Ivanoff, 233 Hession Hills Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
one of Televate’s recommendations was to hire an engineer to perform a
study to find the best location that would provide service to a wide range of
our residents, but those studies were not done, and instead, the Board
asked Televade to start with 230 Hessian Hills as their go to point. Ms.
Ivanoff stated that 230, 231 and 233 Hessian Hills Road and the pumping
station are the only three properties that meet the criteria that have a
minimum based elevation of 500 feet above sea level, but reminded the
Board that this is a residential area and revenue should not be the driving
force.
Sara Boyce, 140 Benedict Blvd, Croton on Hudson, stated that it was difficult
to hear the presentation and what people said during the discussion at the
recent housing forum held at the Harmon Firehouse, the facilitators did not

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 4

introduce themselves and suggested that if this done again, the facilitators
be Croton residents or members of the Board. Ms. Boyce stated that she
does not know how these affordable housing developments are going to help
Croton residents and she is concerned that this development is going to
have a negative impact the Harmon area.
Kate Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that we do not
need any more cell towers, and hiring more consultants is a waste of
taxpayer’s money, and believes we have enough people in the Village who
are professionals that can do the job themselves. Ms. Mamone stated that
she does not feel that Croton has to solve the housing crises for the entire
country and asked that we do not urbanize Croton.
Trustee Simon stated that we have been working with members of the
Telecommunications Advisory Committee and based on their March 8th letter
we included in our April 15th Draft law the following: (1) to not separately
specify Village owned properties (2) include the RA60 Zoning area as eligible
for telecommunications towers, (3) require that all telecommunications
projects appear before the Planning Board’s Site Plan approval process, and
with an elevation of 500 feet or more” include the RA40 Zoning areas as
eligible for telecommunication towers. Trustee Simon stated that their May
2nd communication recommended 1) either no limitations or all of RA40 is
out, (2) modification of the ability for the Board of Trustees to waive
application materials requirements (3) update the Zoning areas where small
technology could be permitted, (4) increase the alternative site analysis
which needs to be done when a proposal is made from one quarter of a mile
away from where the proposal is being made to the entire Village. Trustee
Simon stated that he is happy to see if something can be done on all of
these and also believes that these changes would not require us to start the
process all over.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that the Telecommunication Advisory Committee’s
May 2nd communication had four recommendations and believes we can
work on three of those recommendations. Trustee Murtaugh stated that it
was said this evening that the law prevents small cell applications, which it
does not, and believes that the Board has been very responsive to the
recommendations and any changes to this law will be minor in scope and
feels that we should move forward.
6. PROPOED RESOLUTIONS:

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 5

Resolution #87-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program was approved
by referendum in 2003, and
WHEREAS Article 11-A of the New York State General Municipal Law requires that the list
of Fire Department members indicating those who earned a year of service credit during
the calendar year, those that did not earn a year of credit, and those who waived
participation must be certified under oath by the Fire Department, and
WHEREAS this list was approved by the Village Board at its meeting of March 13, 2024,
and posted for 30 days, and
WHEREAS the Mayor must sign off on the final list to be submitted to the program
administrator, Penflex,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Mayor to execute the Sponsor Authorization Form for the Croton-on-Hudson Fire
Department Length of Service Award Program for 2023.
Resolution 88-2024 - Removed from Agenda
Resolution 89-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is desirous of supporting the efforts of the
Croton Welcome Wagon to greet new members of our community, and
WHEREAS the Croton Welcome Wagon has been providing welcome bags for new
residents and hosting community events on a quarterly basis; and
WHEREAS the Village and the Croton Welcome Wagon seek to formalize this relationship,
and
WHEREAS up to $1,300 shall be expended annually to reimburse the Croton Welcome
Wagon for supplies and promotional items, and

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 6

WHEREAS the Village agrees to waive any event fees for the Croton Welcome Wagon's
participation in Village events, such as Summerfest, and for their utilization of Village
facilities, including Senasqua Park,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute the agreement between the Croton Welcome Wagon and the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson to support welcoming new residents throughout the year for
the period beginning June 1, 2024, through May 31, 2029, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for such expense is available in A7550.4000:
Celebrations – Contractual.
Resolution #90-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 5–0 vote.
WHEREAS on March 15, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees approved the renewal of a
special permit for the operation of a smoke shop at 50 Maple Street, and
WHEREAS this special permit is set to expire July 23, 2024, and must be renewed in
accordance with the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code, and
WHEREAS Ibrahim Jamal, the owner of Smoke Town Discount, has submitted a special
permit renewal application with the appropriate fee, and
WHEREAS renewal of the special permit does not require an environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers the
renewal of the special permit application for a smoke shop located at 50 Maple Street to
the Planning Board for a recommendation back to the Village Board of Trustees as
required by law.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he likes the fact that they need to check in every five years
and would be opposed to an indefinite Special Permit.
Village Manager Healy advised that most Special Permits do not have expiration dates
but because this was a little controversial at the time, the Board put an expiration date in
place. Village Manager Healy stated that in the seven years since they opened, there has

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 7

not been too many issues other than with signage that were addressed very quickly but
we can get a full report from the Code Enforcement Officer before the public hearing.
Trustee Nicholson stated that within the next five years we are going to have many new
residents living in very close proximity of the smoke shop and strongly opposes the
smoke sign in big red letters in their front window, she does not believe this should be in
our gateway or in our shopping centers and actually agrees it is appropriate to keep the
five year Special Permit in place and asked that we also look at signage in our Gateway.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that you cannot regulate signage by content, you
can only do it by size and color.
Village Manager Healy explained that there is a State Law that you are not allowed to
have any sort of cigarette or vaping ads within 1,500 feet of a school and every so often
they will put up a sign and we ask them to remove it.
Resolution #91 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to update Chapter 206, Telecommunications Towers, of
the Village Code to provide for the regulation of wireless facilities in the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS after careful consideration of feedback from the public and the
Telecommunications Advisory Committee, the Board of Trustees has directed specific
amendments to be made to the draft law to accommodate these comments, and
WHEREAS certain revisions may be deemed substantial, necessitating the Board of
Trustees to restart the SEQRA process, and
WHEREAS the Village has completed Part 1 of a Short Environmental Assessment
Form (EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF),
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is an-Unlisted Action
2. The Village Board hereby declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 8

in connection with the Proposed Action.
3. The Village Board hereby issues the EAF and CAF which it has before it in connection
with the proposed action.
4. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the Village’s
Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the Village Board in
in accordance with Village Law.
5. The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations and
notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that we are not enacting anything this evening, but rather
authorizing the draft law to be forwarded to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for their
review and a report back to the Village Board.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that the law reflects the opinions of the Telecommunications
Advisory Committee and believes it is a better law because of their involvement.
Trustee Politi confirmed some of the issues we have agreed to, (1) not specifying Village
owned properties (2) adding the RA60 Zoning District, (3) telecommunications companies
will go through the Planning Board’s Site Plan process, (4) we will resolve whether we
want all of RA40 or none of RA40, (5) the Village will look at small cell technology, and
(6) increase from one quarter mile to something in between the whole Village.
Trustee Simon stated that he understands the concerns that the Village can waive certain
requirements for materials in connection with proposals and would like to discuss and
explore this further.
Village Manager Healy stated that we are taking a much slower approach to make sure
that we have time for the Waterfront Advisory Committee to review and comment before
we schedule a public hearing,
Trustee Nicholson stated that we have some real service issues, and we are trying to be
as focused on community concerns as much as possible but there is a real need for us to
get additional service into the Village.
Mayor Pugh stated that the committee was formed nine and a half months ago, we
appreciate all of the input and points that were raised, and they will be considered as
part of this process, but we have to make decisions as an elected Board. Mayor Pugh
stated that the survey indicated wide-spread dissatisfaction with the quality of cell phone
service in the Village and there is also a public safety component because cell phones

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 9

have become the primary means of communication for many residents, and we need to
ensure that coverage is as complete as possible.
Resolution #92 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the franchise agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and Altice is
due to expire in December of 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village is in the process of negotiating a new franchise agreement, and
WHEREAS in the spirit of transparency and civic engagement, the Village of Croton-onHudson is committed to providing its residents with ample opportunity to voice their
opinions and concerns regarding cable services in the community,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on Wednesday, May 22, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to review the past
performance of the cable operator, Altice, and to identify the future cable-related
community needs of the Village.
Resolution #93 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is the owner of real property located on
Croton Point Avenue with tax parcel designations of Parcel Nos. 79.17-1-5 and 79.17-1-3
on the Village tax maps, also known as ‘Lot A’, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has selected WBP Development LLC of
Chappaqua, New York, as the proposed purchaser and developer for the redevelopment
of Lot A, and
WHEREAS WBP Development requires access to the property to conduct due diligence for
the possible development of the property, including activities such as investigation,
surveying, testing, and photography,

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 10

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute a Temporary Access Agreement with WBP Development LLC, subject to review
and approval by the Village Attorney.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that contract has a due-diligence periodand this will
allow them to get started.
Resolution #94 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MUTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on May 6, 2023, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson awarded Bid #3-2023 for
tree services to New England Property Maintenance, Inc. of Mahopac, New York, at a unit
bid price of $2,300, and
WHEREAS Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, recommends extending the
contract by one year in accordance with the terms outlined in the bid,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to award the contract for tree trimming and removal services to New
England Property Maintenance, Inc. of Mahopac, New York for a one-year extension
beginning June 1, 2024, through May 31, 2025, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that all pricing and conditions as submitted in Bid #3-2023
shall remain the same for the upcoming extension period.
Resolution #95 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on May 6, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees awarded Bid #2-2023 for lawn
maintenance services to La Teja Contractors and Landscaping, Inc., of Ossining, New
York in the amount of $46,485, and
WHEREAS the contract terms included an option to renew on an annual basis for two
additional one-year intervals, and

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 11

WHEREAS La Teja has submitted a request to extend the bid for the period of June 1,
2024, through May 31, 2025, as permitted, and
WHEREAS Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, has recommended that the bid be
extended for the above period,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute an extension with La Teja Contractors and Landscaping, Inc., for the Village’s
lawn maintenance program, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that all pricing and conditions as submitted in Bid #2-2023
shall remain the same for the upcoming extension period.
Resolution #96 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on April 10, 2023, the Village entered into a contract with S.A.C-D Steno
Services for stenographic work in the Village Justice Court, extending through May 31,
2024, and
WHEREAS the contract provides for a one-year extension at the same terms and conditions,
and
WHEREAS Stephanie A. Colon-Davis of S.A.C-D Steno Services has submitted a letter of
intent to extend the contact for one-year at the same rates: $250/for a 5-hour minimum
Court Appearance ($45 after 5 hours), $350/for 5-hour minimum non-jury trials ($50 per
additional hour), $200 Bust Fee for Hearings/Trials, $5.75/page for transcripts (10
business day turnaround), and $7.50/page for transcripts (3-5 business day turnaround),
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to enter into a
contract with S.A.C-D Steno Services for stenographic work in the Village Justice Court
through May 31, 2025.
Resolution #97 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 12

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has received funding to support its Veterans
Banner Program, and
WHEREAS numerous applications were received this year for banners, resulting in the
supply line for this program to be exceeded, and
WHEREA, the cost of the banners is covered through program revenue received by the
Village, resulting in no net cost to the taxpayer,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board authorizes the Village
Treasurer to amend the 2023-2024 General Fund budget as follows:
GENERAL FUND REVENUE
Increase
A1410.1289

Banner Fees

$3,850

GENERAL FUND EXPENSE
Increase
A7550.4200

Celebrations-Supplies

$3,850

7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Sara Boyce, 140 Benedict Blvd, Croton on Hudson, asked where the car
break-ins were, were all eighteen cars unlocked, and were the police able to
make any headway. Ms. Boyce also expressed her concern about the
urbanization of Croton and does not see how it is helping Croton residents.
Kate Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson stated that residents are
having a tough time finding parking at Senasqua Park during concerts and
recommended restricting it to residents only.
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
April 10, 2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
9.

REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson announced that the Big Easy will be held this Saturday at
Vassallo Park and encouraged residents to use the shuttle bus. The Jazz
Concert will be held on Sunday at the Croton Library from 3-5pm.

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 13

Trustee Simon advised that 276 pounds of prescription drugs were collected
during the Drug Take Back Day and thanked the Rotary Club for coordinating
the event, a very successful CrotonCon was held this past Saturday and
thanked everyone involved, appreciated the participation from Croton’s faith
leaders at our recent Housing Forum, on May 3rd we hosted the Hudson
Gateway Chamber breakfast meeting at the Yacht Club, on May 10th he and
Trustee Politi will be hosting a meeting with our businesses, and met with the
Seniors last Friday and briefed them on the funds we put in our Budget for
senior programs.
Trustee Murtaugh advised that the Planning Board has resolved the Blue Pig
parking issues and believes it is favorable for both customers and the
business, explained that the issue with the smoke shop at the Shoprite Plaza
was a landlord/tenant issue and the Village had nothing to do with it, the
cars that were recently broken in on Radnor and in the Harmon area were all
unlocked and emphasized the importance of locking vehicles, and is pleased
to advise that the Board approved another Park Ranger for the Croton Gorge
area on Saturdays and Sundays during the summer months.
Trustee Politi advised that the IDEA committee is working on a Juneteenth
celebration, CrotonCon was a great success, CET Culture Night is this Friday,
thanked everyone who participation in the Housing Forum, it was great to
see so many people in attendance, and agrees that adding a couple of
hundred apartments is not going to solve the housing crises, but we need
housing in Croton and believes in sensible development that adds to our tax
base, she understands that Senasqua Park is a private park except for
concerts but it is a wonderful opportunity for people to come to Coton and be
a part of this beautiful Village, the shuttle is a pilot program and strongly
encouraged residents to take the shuttle and share their feedback with the
Village
Mayor Pugh stated that one of the objectives in our 2003 Comprehensive
Plan as well as the Updated Comprehensive Plan is to increase the supply of
affordable housing and, as indicated in the Housing Needs Assessment, we
are not very close to achieving those goals, we have over 500 households
that spend half of their income on housing costs, and without new housing
opportunities and meaningful competition in the housing market there is
going to be an endless opportunity for landlords to take advantage of tenants
by increasing their rents which is why we also adopted and expanded the
Emergency Tenant Protection Act in the Village. Mayor Pugh addressed the

Village Board of Trustees
May 8, 2024
Page 14

discourse about new residents into our community and stated that he has
lived in Croton his entire life, and during this time period many hundreds of
units of housing have been built and we value all the people who moved in
during that time period, we welcomed them to our Village and looks forward
to welcoming our new residents.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village will be applying for a
$500,000 grant with New York State to assist the Village with much needed
improvements on the Gouveia house, we are also taking funds from the
endowment for site improvements and design work.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at
9:00pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

