Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, July 24, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

The following official was absent:
Trustee Politi
1. A motion to enter into an Executive Session at 6:06pm to discuss matters of
personnel involving the employment of a particular person was made by Trustee
Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0
vote.
Following the Executive Session, and as a courtesy to the many residents in
attendance, Mayor Pugh opened the meeting at 6:25pm to allow residents to
address the Board on Agenda Items.
Frank Bonano, 706 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked when the
owners of the 1 Half Moon Bay property presented their petition to the Board,
what is the process to get comments from the community, addressed the Board’s
fiduciary obligations to the community versus the developer, believes that
residents who have lived under the current zoning will be impacted if the Board
chooses to change it, and will the Board go back to the community if the developer
requests things that don’t fall in line with our current zoning laws.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Petition was received via email on July 11,
2024.
Mayor Pugh advised that like all projects in the Village, it will be bound by the
State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA), but we are at the very beginning
of the process, no decision has been made, we are acknowledging receipt of the
Petition and declaring the Board’s intent to be the “Lead Agency” under SEQRA.
Mayor Pugh advised that the Board will be hiring their own Planning Consultant
paid from the Escrow Funds from the developer and that a public safety analysis
will be part of the review process as well as traffic and school impact studies.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 2

Noreen Shakir, 1608 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
Board is changing the culture of the Village by introducing so many people of
diverse backgrounds into the Village and asked why this cannot be put up to a vote
by the community.
Karen Hertz, 503 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she does not
know where we are in the process, but the proposal seems excessive and asked if
the applicant has submitted an Environmental Impact Statement, and is concerned
about the impacts on the Hudson River.
Dan Bennett, 40 Van Wyck Street, Croton on Hudson, requested that the Board
not move forward with any new large scale multiple unit developments, he
believes they will have negative impacts on our Police, Fire and Ambulance
Services as well as our schools and is concerned that the Board is not listening to
the public who have spoken out against these projects in the past.
Erica Laudon, 124 Penfield Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she has
gorgeous views looking over the Finkelstein property and is preparing herself to
lose those views and asked why Croton is considering the development of more
than four hundred units which is eight times more than what Governor Hochul’s
housing plan indicates.
Lisa Stenson Desamours, 1400 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated
that the Board should deny the petition and keep the Light Industrial District
designation intact, she believes the development will cause tangible harm and
adverse impacts on the 500 homeowners at Half Moon Bay, plus more than 200
boat owners as well as residents who use Senasqua and Croton Landing. Ms.
Desamours highlighted Governor Hochul’s housing initiative that requires
communities outside of New York City to create 50 homes over the next three
years”, yet the Village is proposing eight times more than that. Ms. Desamours
stated that the Transit-Oriented Development Act of 2023 is aimed at promoting
higher-density residential development near public transportation hubs if it is
within a half mile of any Transit-Oriented development, yet this property is a full
mile away from the Metro North Station and beyond the New York State criteria.
Ms. Desamours referred to Chapter 230 of the Zoning Code regarding TrafficOriented development.
https://ecode360.com/9145071#9145071 (Section (230-18.C(9).
Jessica Dieckman, 58 Thompson Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
opposes the rate and capacity of development that is occurring in the Village and

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 3

feels that the Board is not receptive to the input from the residents it is tasked to
serve.
Joel Gingold, 55 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned
about the character of the Village in light of the Board considering over 450 new
dwelling units over the next few years and while the impact of some of the smaller
projects don’t seem problematic, taken as a whole, red flags rise up. Mr. Gingold
stated that we need serious discussions on how we can absorb the onslaught of so
many people into our community and encouraged the Board to phase development
over a period of years so we can see firsthand what, if any, impact each of them
may have on the quality of life before we authorize the next project. Mr. Gingold
questioned the Transit-Oriented designation since it is not with the required
proximity to the Metro North Train Station.
2. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the pledge
of allegiance.
3. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 24250340-24250410. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicolson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Post Audit (Water Fund)

$154,758.02
$2,666.40
$518.00
$113,256.44
750.00
1,302.40

4. PUBLIC HEARING:
A Motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the projects proposed in the Village’s
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) application, including the installation
of a sidewalk along the north side of Municipal Place between Maple Street and
South Riverside Avenue, and the installation of a sidewalk along South Riverside
Avenue between Municipal Place and Maple Street was made by Trustee Simon.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0 vote. (The
public hearing on the water main extension loop between Grand Street and Beekman Avenue has
been cancelled).

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 4

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/c62390996bab5e4fc7ccdcca3d5c3f2692228556.pdf
Village Manager Healy advised that the funding we could receive would be 50% of
the project’s cost up to a maximum of $200,000 and we are requesting the
$200,000 for each project.
DISCUSSION:
Matthew Schuerman, 53 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson and member of
the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee stated that the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee
considered sidewalks one of its top priorities and a survey done in 2019 indicated
that people would be more likely to walk places if sidewalks were in better
condition and if the gaps were closed. Mr. Sherman thanked the Department of
Public Works for repairing numerous sidewalks around the Village, but we now
have an opportunity to use CDBG funds and encouraged the Board to move
forward with the application.
Aydan Savaser, 11 Arlington Drive, Croton on Hudson, emphasized the difficulty
people have navigating sidewalks especially with a stroller and believes this is a
good thing to do.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the Village
spent $76,000 on sidewalks at the circle that he believes were not needed, there
are so many other areas that need fixing in Croton other than those areas that are
listed in the grant program. Mr. Mamone stated that he recently had to repair his
own sidewalk that was damaged by a Village tree, yet some people get new
sidewalks for free and believes this is not fair.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Nicholson. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote.
5. RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL – None
6. CORRESPONDENCE
a.

Letters of Support from Village Manager Bryan Healy for Market NYS Grant
Applications.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/6b0b8d5217fa9ff5a966c055c13aa8539fbb1317.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 5

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/8491c133942d72861ab8bb6b91b9318d765fc025.pdf
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the Board
of Trustees authorized the Village Manager to apply for the Market NYS
Grants. Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote.
Trustee Nicholson asked that we encourage them to make sure that the
Blaze is working with our business community in order for them to benefit
when the Blaze comes to town.
Trustee Simon stated that he looks forward to them getting this grant and
working with our local businesses.
b.

Invitation from Congressman Mike Lawler: Senior Fair at the David Swope
Student Center at SUNY Westchester Community College
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/993474ab7080499a1756fb2af2c9ba7205bd6f54.pdf

c.

Email from John Ealer, Croton Conservation Advisory Council CLEAN
Subcommittee Chair, announcing a cleanup of the train station waterfront
on September 29, 2024, and requesting a parking fee waiver for nonresident volunteers.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/2b15c5260e0c242bb9cc701279c9b5636f0c23d3.pdf
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the Board
of Trustees approved the request from the Croton Conservation Advisory
Council CLEAN subcommittee Chair to waive parking fees for non-resident
volunteers participating in the CLEAN program. Motion was approved with a
4-0 vote.

d.

Memorandum from Village Manager Bryan Healy regarding the renewal of
the Community Choice Aggregation program.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/996060c27fc8fda2bd2f51ba030e274f8b34e394.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 6

As part of the Community Choice Aggregation (CCA) program renewal,
Sustainable Westchester received bid pricing for the program on July 17,
2024. Constellation New Energy has been selected as the supplier with the
following rates:
50% Renewable: 12.178 cents per kWh
100% Renewable: 13.298 centers per kWh
These rates represent an 11% decrease and a 14% decrease respectively
from the previous rates being charged for residential and small commercial
customers.
After further discussion, the Board agreed to go with the 100% renewable
energy program. The Board reminded everyone that they have the ability to
opt out of the program, choose the 50% option, stay with Con-Edison or go
with another supplier.
7.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Susan Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked the Board to
please slow down and take an indefinite pause on any new housing and the
urbanization of our Village so that we have opportunity to see what the
impact will be from our current developments, the Village has already built
more than enough to satisfy the State’s housing requirements and enough
for the Village to maintain their Pro Housing Designation. Ms. Skrelja stated
that our schools often attract growing families and is concerned with the
impact on our lower grades.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
concerned that taxpayers will bear the burden on any new developments.
Bob Anderson, 33 Franklin Avenue, Croton on Hudson stated that the initial
savings forecasted by the Community Choice Aggregation Program never
came to fruition, and noted that he stayed with Con-Edison, and he
averaged around one-hundred dollars a year in savings and he is not
convinced that the community is benefiting from this program.
Nance Shatzkin, 132 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, extended her
thanks to the Board members for all their hard work on behalf of the Village,
there is a severe housing shortage, especially in the Northeast and asked
everyone to recognize that the pace of building in Croton is nothing

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 7

compared to the addition of Riverbank and Bari Manor, as well as the many
new homes that have been built over the years. Ms. Shatkin stated that our
school population is down, and we need more children in our schools if we
want to continue to offer our children the same programs she had growing
up in Croton and asked everyone to just pay attention to the facts and
emphasized that these developments will bring a huge amount of money to
both the Village and our schools.
David Bogdam, 50 Irving Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that each
project appears to be bigger than the last one and believes we should not be
changing the character of the Village.
Mr. Bogdam stated that the
mischaracterization of those who are not in favor of this type of
development as being racist or afraid of changes needs to stop and asked
the Board to listen to what people are saying.
Mike Hostetler, 2001 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
does not believe people will be walking to the train station from this
development, it would not be an easy walk, and we will see more cars
coming onto Municipal Place which is already very difficult to navigate.

Colleen Beyrer, 19 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, believes the Board is
moving too fast, and reminded everyone that the property where the Green
Growler is located is also zoned for housing, she believes the Board is
telegraphing that Croton is for sale and is why a developer came in and
purchased the old tire factory. Ms. Beyrer stated that the Board can slow
this down by just not accepting the proposal and insisted that the developer
use the property for what it is currently zoned.
Stacy Calloway, 307 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that
she is not in support of the Half Moon Bay project nor the LOT A
development, and is concerned that we do not have the infrastructure to
accommodate more people. Ms. Calloway stated that she takes her life in
her hands coming off of Route 9 trying to make a left turn into Half Moon
Bay and believes it will only get worse.
Alice Schildkraut, 711 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, supports
everyone who spoke against the 1 Half Moon Bay development, she is
concerned that residents will have a challenging time getting out of Half
Moon Bay during construction and believes it will ruin the entire Half Moon
Bay community.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 8

Tony Granger, 217 Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, stated that we have
already met the housing quota that Albany has set for Croton by over 200%
and by adding a development on LOT A and the 1 Half Moon Bay project, we
would be adding 380 more units amounting to approximately 486 units in
just 2024. Mr. Granger asked that the Board not to abandon their base and
asked that the Board hold off for at least a year until we see what the
impact on the community will be from these current developments.
Ed Riely 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned
that the Board is not listening to the community, and asked that there be a
moratorium on multi family housing to give us an opportunity to study the
impacts of the current developments.
Mr. Riely also objected to the
regulations imposed on private landowners along the Croton River and not
the four major polluters and asked that local Village elections return back to
March.
John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that he has seen
evidence that over 50% of Senasqua Park is flooded by tidal floods on a
regular basis, he is also concerned that the State of New York is raising the
Annsville Circle by 6 feet in order to adapt to the tidal flooding and
thinks it folly to talk about high density buildings in a flood plain. Mr.
McKeon stated that LOT A is the only parking lot that we own that will not
be flooding in the next ten years, yet the Village is selling it. Mr. McKeon
also addressed his concerns on how our Volunteer Fire Department is going
to handle six story structures and wonders if we will need a professional fire
department in the future.
Phyllis Morrow, 61 Nordica Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
concerned that this is going to get very adversarial and believes this is the
consequence of not really addressing communications on a consistent basis.
Petra Vance, 217 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, emphasized the
Board’s obligations to the community.
Dave Lally, 8 Cedar Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that he completely
disagrees with the rate of development in Croton and is concerned that our
precious village will face irreversible damage. Mr. Lally stated that residents
have invested in the Village over a long period of time and the Board should
not be looking to change zoning in our neighborhoods and the community
needs to have the opportunity to decide what they want and do not want in
their community.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 9

Matthew McGuire, 1 Wayne Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
understands that we need more housing, but asked the Board to slow down,
and keep the zoning to three stories. Mr. McGuire stated that, since
sidewalks are used by everyone, the Village should be maintaining all
sidewalks.
Taryn McAllister, 73 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, spoke about her
negative experiences of living in an apartment in one of these types of new
buildings and the Village must make sure that the developer is scrutinized to
make sure that the resident’s quality of life is beyond satisfactory, she also
expressed her concerns that the Village may not have the adequate
resources to oversee and monitor the current projects taking place in the
Village.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
residents of Croton do not want a zoning change for the 1 Half Moon Bay
property, it will disfigure our Village and implored the Board to stop this
ridiculously oversized project.
Alex Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked who the losing
bid was for the LOT A property, where do we stand with the developer, who
owns the brown building adjacent to LOT A and asked about the ownership
of the Katz property.
Brad Kennedy, 1 Clevland Drive, Croton on Hudson, requested that the
Board create a Q and A so the community gets more accurate information
on the impacts of the proposed project, the Village website indicated that
the project would generate $798,000 to the Village and asked how that
money is disbursed.
Jason Adkins, 95 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is a
newcomer to the Village, and it would be wonderful to understand the school
numbers and the predictions because it is hard to know from the figures that
you get from the developers. Mr. Adkins stated that it seems that a lot of
the issues are aesthetics and does not see multiple options being presented
to the public and believes this is what is leading to some of the
confrontation.
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that the Village Board does not have
the authority under New York State Village Law to put any question to a
Referendum, New York State Village Law defines specific items that can be

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 10

put to a public Referendum and this type of issue is not one of them. For
more information on the law, you may log onto the following:
https://newyork.public.law/laws/n.y._village_law_article_9
Mayor Pugh stated that what we have before us this evening is a Petition for
a Zoning amendment, and the resolution this evening acknowledges receipt
of that Petition, and to begin the SEQRA (State Environmental Quality
Review Act) process, it is not an adoption or an approval of the project and
many of the questions asked this evening about the schools, infrastructure,
impacts on the River are things that will be addressed during the SEQRA
process and as part of our Local Waterfront Revitalization Consistency
Review.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that there is going to be a lengthy review
process, the Board is retaining a consultant to assist the Village during that
process, the Planning Board will also be involved in the review process as
will the Waterfront Advisory Committee since it requires a Consistency
Determination with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program.
Village Manager Healy gave an overview of the uses currently allowed on the
1 Half Moon Bay property as detailed in Section 230-18 of the Village Code.
https://ecode360.com/9145372
8.

PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #151 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson recognizes the need for improved pedestrian
infrastructure to enhance safety and accessibility for residents and visitors, and
WHEREAS the Village has identified a project for the installation of a sidewalk along the
north side of Municipal Place between Maple Street and South Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program provides financial
assistance to communities for the purpose of developing viable urban communities by
providing decent housing, a suitable living environment, and expanding economic
opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 11

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson intends to submit an application for CDBG
funding in the amount of $200,000 to support this sidewalk installation project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of the Village of Croton-onHudson hereby endorses the submission of the CDBG application for the installation of a
sidewalk along the north side of Municipal Place between Maple Street and South
Riverside Avenue, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village will contribute the remainder of the cost of
the project.
Resolution #152 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson recognizes the need for improved pedestrian
infrastructure to enhance safety and accessibility for residents and visitors, and
WHEREAS the Village has identified a project for the installation of a sidewalk along
South Riverside Avenue between Municipal Place and Maple Street, and
WHEREAS the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program provides financial
assistance to communities for the purpose of developing viable urban communities by
providing decent housing, a suitable living environment, and expanding economic
opportunities, principally for low- and moderate-income persons, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson intends to submit an application for CDBG
funding in the amount of $200,000 to support this sidewalk installation project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of the Village of Croton-onHudson hereby endorses the submission of the CDBG application for the installation of a
sidewalk along South Riverside Avenue between Municipal Place and Maple Street, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village will contribute the remainder of the cost of
the project.
Resolution #153 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 3-1 vote. NAY TRUSTEE NICHOLSON

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 12

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a zoning petition (“the Petition”)
from Zarin & Steinmetz LLP, representing 1 HMB Property Owner LLC, owner, requesting
amendments to Sections 230-18(C)(9) and 230-37(B) of the Zoning Code of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS the owner desires such changes to be enacted to permit the redevelopment of
the property at 1 Half Moon Bay Drive, located in the Light Industrial Zoning District, to
include a multifamily residential building, and
WHEREAS the applicant has submitted a Full Environmental Assessment Form Part 1 and
a Coastal Assessment Form,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby determines that the
Proposed Action is a Type 1 action under SEQRA, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby declares its intent to be the
Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the Proposed Action and authorizes
the circulation of its intent to all involved and interested agencies, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby refers the Petition and
associated documents to the Village Planning Board and the Westchester County Planning
Board, in accordance with Village and County law, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby directs the applicant to establish
an initial escrow fund of $50,000 for the purpose of review of this application by the
various Boards.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Murtaugh asked why the developer is asking to be included in the TOD Overlay
District when they could have come to the Board and asked for a Special Permit to create
a residential use in a Light Industrial District.
Kory Salomone from the law firm of Zarin and Steinmetz stated that he did not believe
they could get the density the applicant is seeking under that Special Permit.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that what she believes what Trustee Murtaugh is
asking is why the TOD and not some other Zoning Amendment that could get the
applicant to the same thing understanding that this is a mile from the train station.
Mayor Pugh stated that there is a precedent in the Village for incorporating some union
labor in the multi-family construction in Croton and hopes that such an agreement can be
made for this project.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 13

Trustee Simon asked if it is common for there to be significant changes in what a project
looks like as you get community input.
Trustee Nicholson asked Mr. Fish to address the fiscal benefits and the net value for
taxpayers.
Frank Fish, from BFJ stated that his company has not submitted a plan that did not
change throughout the approval process and gave an overview of the Economic and
Fiscal Impact and as well as Public School Children Analysis as detailed in Exhibit H and
G.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/2a5f9bf4bc49d7b892a330734a3209a5ff713b33.pdf
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/747b267111cdea3e79b96b894a26f8a2d0e8e1f4.pdf
Mr. Fish stated that a single-family home could have a negative impact on school taxes
as opposed to a multi-unit development because it pays significantly more taxes. Mr.
Fish stated that in the last ten years school numbers have declined by 10% and if that is
case, the marginal costs would be much less than the per capita costs.
Trustee Nicholson stated that the presumed tax revenue for the Village as indicated on
the Economic and Fiscal Impact is $798,000, but the per-capita costs for additional
services that would be needed is $754,000, for a net value for the Village of $44,000.
Mr. Fish stated that this is just the beginning, and we will provide the community with a
bigger picture, and we welcome a review of all our work and look forward to meeting with
the School District as well as the Police and Fire Departments.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Board takes the tax levy very seriously, and each project has
to be evaluated on its own basis, and this is why we will be hiring our own consultant.
Mayor Pugh stated that if the Board were to adopt this resolution, we intend to have
extensive meetings with each of our Departments so they can gage the impact on Village
services. Mayor Pugh stated that we do not currently have housing like this, and we
would like to see comparable multi-family housing in comparable communities and their
impact on taxes, school enrollment and traffic.
Trustee Nicholson thanked the developer for investing $24 million in Croton, some of the
positive impacts are the estimated $159 million over two years to the County during the
construction process and the projected 1.1 million dollars in net gain in property tax
revenues that would go to the schools, as well as improving the Village’s infrastructure by

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 14

the river, but her biggest reservation is timing, we have taken on a lot of development
over the past five years and we really need to see the fruits of our labor and asked the
developer to withdraw their application and resubmit it in one year, at that time we will
have two projects completed, and our LOT A project will be well through the application
process. Trustee Nicholson emphasized that the Village, Planning and Zoning Boards are
all volunteers, and we will have our hands full dealing with the other projects, there is a
lot of good in this proposal but not right now.
Trustee Murtaugh fully endorses what Trustee Nicholson said, there is a lot happening at
once, we did not ask for this, though it is very exciting and made the following
statement: “Last fall, at about the same time that I accepted the Mayor’s call to fill the
vacancy of Ann Gallelli’s retirement, the property known colloquially as the Finklestein
property, was sold for almost 24 million dollars. My first public comments on the matter
were, something to the effect of “I will keep my eye on this”. This is true today.
Reasonable people understand that with an investment of this magnitude, something was
bound to happen. We have an opportunity now to shape this project into something that
will mesh with our community. Currently, the tire warehouse is a rather benign use and
virtually unnoticed. There are many other legal industrial uses for that property that
exist today, right now. Uses that we may not particularly care for, and ones that if the
current structure were utilized would have no positive impact upon tax receipts. We are
now faced with the question of: Do we do our due diligence? Or do we just say, no
thanks? We have only one chance to choose the former, but we will have plenty of
opportunities, as we proceed, to say no thanks. If at any time we decide to say no
thanks, it is a purely discretionary action. There is no liability if we said no to a potential
zoning amendment down the road. There is much skepticism in the village about the
wisdom of this proposal, I share some of that, but there is no way to understand it
without looking into the merits or flaws more closely. The knee jerk reaction is to say no,
stop now. I disagree with that. I would like more details and that is what we are doing
here tonight. We are beginning a process that will flush out answers much more fully. By
relying upon our valuable Planning Board, and other boards, and seeking the input of
AKRF, our planning consultants, we will gain a far more nuanced understanding of the
ramifications of our decision. Ultimately, we may say no thanks, but I feel that to do so
now is a mistake. We need to be as well informed as possible, and this is how we go
about it. Am I skeptical about the number of school age children, yes. Am I concerned
about traffic overwhelming our streets, certainly? Am I concerned that the new
structures and residents will overtax our volunteer first responder corps, yes, and our
police department, yes, of course. Without deeper study, we will never know. We cannot
take the developers’ proposal at face value; we need our own research. I am not
suggesting that they are misleading us with their glossy portfolio, but it would be foolish

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 15

to not do our own homework. That is what we are doing tonight, starting the homework
assignment.”
Trustee Simon stated that he has enormous respect for the points expressed by his
colleagues, and reminded everyone that the applicant is putting up $50,000 for us to hire
a consultant that will look at the schools enrollment, public safety, traffic, the
environment, and economics as well as the many issues that were brought up this
evening and supports a Town Hall meeting as well as putting a Q and A on our website.
Trustee Simon emphasized that we are not making any decisions today, we have listened
to everyone this evening and we will do the homework, but if by any reason we were
required to vote on this project the way it is tonight he would vote no, he does not think
this project is ready and while he is interested, he does not think we are ready. Trustee
Simon stated that over the years many people have come up to him and indicated that
the tire warehouse would be a terrific location for housing, if we do our homework,
maybe there is a project that includes housing that people would agree to and we need
to take as long as necessary to figure that out.
Mayor Pugh stated that, at the applicant’s expense, the Village has the ability to hire
outside inspectors on a contractual basis to assist the Village with overseeing these
projects, which is something that we have done in the past and while we are very far
from that stage he wanted to address that concern that was mentioned earlier. Mayor
Pugh stated that a lot of great questions have been asked this evening that deserve
answers and the way we do that is to move forward with the process and acknowledge
the Petition. Mayor Pugh stated that we do have a housing crisis, and he has been very
consistent in communicating that but meeting that housing need has to be done in a way
that is consistent with the resources that we have in the Village.
Resolution #154 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Attorney has recommended that the regulations addressing the
reservation of parkland be revised to provide clear and concise language on their
applicability, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that:

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 16

The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is an Unlisted action and
declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes.
The Village Board hereby issues the Environmental Assessment Form (EAF) and Coastal
Assessment Form (CAF) which it has before it in connection with the Proposed Action.
The Village Board hereby refers to the Village Planning Board the Draft Law for a report
back to the Village Board in accordance with Village law.
The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the Village
Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the Village Board in
accordance with Village Law.
The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the Westchester
County Planning Board for review in accordance with law.
The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations and
notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that this will allow the Village to impose a “Fee In
Lieu of Parkland” if the Village determines that a residential development creates a need
for additional parkland, and the project is not able to include it on its property, the
provisions currently in the code needed to be updated to clarify that for site-plans the
Village Board could set a fee depending on the number of bedrooms, the funds that are
collected are held in a Trust and must be used for either the purchase of additional
parkland or improvements to existing parklands.
Resolution #155 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application from
Ryan Kao of CTRH LLC, to construct a three-story mixed-use building at 325 South
Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS a Site Development Plan, Environmental Assessment Form,
Assessment Form, and site pictures have been submitted with the application,

Coastal

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby determines that the
Proposed Action is an unlisted action under SEQRA, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 17

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby declares its intent to be the
Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the Proposed Action and authorizes
the circulation of its intent to all involved and interested agencies, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby refers the special permit
application and associated documents to the Village Planning Board and the Westchester
County Planning Department, in accordance with Village and County law.
DISCUSSION:
Jorge Hernandez, representative from ARQ Architects, gave an overview of the proposed
product. To view the project, you may click on the following link.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/c92e4fc8021275250a491fd59594337842c7f39f.pdf
Trustee Simon asked if the square footage of Save-Mor Pharmacy is going to be the same
and asked if the mix of commercial/housing is set firmly and does the available parking
stay the same.
Mr. Hernandez stated that the Pharmacy will be a little larger, the structure will have two
units on the top level, the second level has two office spaces, and if Save-Mor finds they
do not need the second office, that space may become a unit as well. Mr. Hernandez
stated that they are projecting twenty parking spaces, which should be more than
sufficient.
Resolution #156 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application and
zoning petition in recent weeks for multifamily development in the Village, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is desirous of retaining a third-party consultant to review the
documentation submitted and assist the Board with the environmental review and
waterfront consistency review it will undertake, and
WHEREAS the ability to retain a consultant and require the applicant to reimburse the
Village for fees incurred is authorized through Chapter 178, Professional Fees, of the
Village Code, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 18

WHEREAS AKRF Inc., of White Plains, New York, has provided a proposal to be retained
as the Village’s planning consultant for these projects,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Manager to accept the proposal from AKRF Inc.
Resolution #157 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS a multifamily development is currently under construction at 25 South
Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS as part of the construction project, new stormwater and sanitary sewer mains
and appurtenances are required to be installed on the property, and
WHEREAS the existing stormwater and sanitary sewer mains and appurtenances from the
previous building on the property will be abandoned, and
WHEREAS the existing easement agreement filed in the Westchester County Clerk’s office
will be terminated as part of the new easement agreement,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the Easement Agreement with Croton Riverside LLC, subject to the final approval
of the Village Attorney.
Resolution #158 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby approves
the Memorandum of Agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and the Croton
Police Association, covering the period June 1, 2024 – May 31, 2029, and authorizes the
expenditure of funds consistent therewith.
Resolution #159 of 2024

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 19

On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS on May 17, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees approved an employment
agreement with Bryan Healy to serve as Village Manager, and
WHEREAS such agreement is set to expire on August 9, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is desirous of extending the employment agreement, as
amended, through August 9, 2027,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby approves
the employment agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and Bryan Healy;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes the
Mayor to execute the contract on its behalf.
Resolution #160 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS a vacancy in the Croton Police Department currently exists for the position of
Police Officer, and
WHEREAS Chief of Police John H. Nikitopoulos has interviewed several candidates for the
position and recommends the hiring of Esterlyn Duran Ortiz for the position of Police
Officer,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Esterlyn Duran Ortiz is hereby appointed as a
Police Officer in the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department as of July 24, 2024, at an
annual salary of $71,876.58, pending the passage of medical exams and approval from
the Westchester County Department of Human Resources, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the official start date on payroll for Mr. Duran Ortiz shall
be determined by the Chief of Police upon completion of the above-stated exams and
approvals.
Resolution #161 of 2024

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 20

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS a vacancy in the Croton Police Department currently exists for the position of
Police Officer, and
WHEREAS Chief of Police John H. Nikitopoulos has interviewed several candidates for the
position and recommends the hiring of Sean Rooney for the position of Police Officer,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Sean Rooney is hereby appointed as a Police
Officer in the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department as of July 24, 2024, at an annual
salary of $78,822.03, pending the passage of medical exams and approval from the
Westchester County Department of Human Resources, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the official start date on payroll for Mr. Rooney shall be
determined by the Chief of Police upon completion of the above-stated exams and
approvals.
Resolution #162 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS there are a number of capital projects that have been completed throughout
the past fiscal year, and
WHEREAS upon discussion with the Village Manager, the Village Treasurer recommends
closing the capital accounts associated with these projects as follows:
09194
15290
15302
16316
18342
18345
18349
19359
20372
20375

Municipal Building Window Replace
Service Truck
LED Lights
Low Boy Dump Truck
WEFH Renovations
Police Vehicle
NYSERDA LED Lighting
Relocation Water Department Offices
Police Electric Hybrid Vehicle
Solar Power

$654.87
254.61
0.89
962.27
520.80
36,388.29
50,212.97
-

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 21

21381 Replacement of FD Radios
22390 Village Wide Stormwater
23444 Grand Street Firehouse

1,412.12
(312.98)
45.74

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees authorizes the Village
Treasurer to close the above listed accounts as of May 31, 2024, and return $2,188.42 to
the Debt Service Fund and $51,562.87 to the General Fund, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that $36,388.29 shall be reclassified from Project 19359 to
Project 18344.
Resolution #163 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village employs a seasonal clerk to assist with increased operations within
the Finance Department during the tax season, and
WHEREAS the initial term of this position was scheduled from May 13th to July 18th, and
WHEREAS the Finance Department has requested an extension of this position until
August 1st, and
WHEREAS funding for this extended period was not allocated in the 2024-2025 General
Fund budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to make the following budget transfers:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A1325.1100 – Treasurer – Personnel Services PT
Decrease
A1325.4000 – Treasurer – Contractual
A1680.4200 – Data Processing – Supplies
A7020.4000 – Recreation – Contractual
9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:

$1,000.00
$
$
$

276.93
564.74
158.33

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 22

Aydan Savaser, 11 Arlington Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that people from
Central and South America are moving into Croton, and they typically have more
children and suggested reaching out to our local childcare centers to see how
many children they have and if they live in the community.
Lisa Stenson Desamours, 1400 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated
that she feels that it is disingenuous that the developers of the 1 Half Moon Bay
property purchased the property with the intention to seek a Zoning change and
suggested that the Village attempt to attract companies/businesses to utilize that
property under its current zoning. Ms. Stenson Desamours asked that the
community get accurate numbers with respect to school children because she
believes fifty children is a more accurate number.
Patrick DeLasho, 92 Lexington Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he was
dismayed that when he parked his car to go to Mayo’s Landing, he was asked for
his Park I.D. and asked what is the rational and benefit for this.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that Mayo’s Landing is for the expressed use for Croton
residents and the reason we have a gate guard is to make sure that only residents
enter that area.
Trustee Nicholson stated that we hired a gate guard because we had some safety
concerns with overcrowding and people entering who were not residents.
Colleen Beyrer, 19 Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if the parking at the
Katz property will be monitored, will they be handing out parking permits to assure
that only residents are parking there, she is concerned with what will happen if
there are not enough parking spaces and anticipates a problem in the area.
Trustee Nicholson said that is a good question and will address that with the
developer.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked that they only allow
a three-story structure on the 1 Half Moon Bay property and that the building fit
the scale and beauty of Croton’s waterfront. Mr. Eisinger stated that he does not
understand why the developer is requesting a Transit Overlay District when the
developer is promoting that this building will mostly be populated with retired baby
boomers. Mr. Eisinger asked about the changes at the Maple Commons Project
with respect to the buffer zone.
Village Manager Healy advised that the buffer did not change, there was a
discussion about some of the plantings within the buffer.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 23

Susan Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is in
opposition of this fast and furious growth, and demanded that the Board take a
pause so that we see what the repercussions are with the current projects.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he does not
want the Board to have regrets for selling the LOT A property and asked that we
keep that lot for ourselves and once again asked the Board to consider a
Residential Parking Permit System in his neighborhood and to also enforce the
Code relating to dogs.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned with
the increase of the population in Croton and encouraged the Board to put a cap on
housing. Mr. Riely stated that one of the speakers said that the type of housing
should not disfigure the community, this is in direct correlation with the Village’s
Master Plan of preserving traditional qualities, strengthening the assets and
protecting resources and what is being proposed on these sites does not preserve
traditional qualities.
Phyllis Morrow, 61 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is concerned
that we will not have enough funds for the consultant to do all the research on this
project, she also addressed an issue with a “blind spot” on Old Post Road after
leaving Five Corners going down towards Truesdale at the crest of the hill and
asked that to be addressed.
Tara Taryn, 13 Scenic Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the crosswalk down by
the Riverwalk is dangerous because of the curve in the road, you cannot see the
crosswalk and asked that to be addressed, and also addressed some of the general
appearance of the walkway because it sometimes takes days or weeks before it
gets cleaned up.
Alexander Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked what the
possibilities are for LOT A such as a 55+ housing development.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Division of Homes and Community Renewal is
responsible for disbursing low-income tax credits which are used to finance
affordable housing projects, but it is only in rare circumstances that they will
disburse funds for just senior housing, the Board is very excited about LOT A being
an affordable ownership development and we are looking into that through the
AHOP Program.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 24

Trustee Nicholson stated that we have just started the process with LOT A, we do
not know if there will be AHOP funds by the time we go through the process and
that property may end up being 80% market rate rental.
10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on July
17, 2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on July 17, 2024,
was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and
approved with a 4-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on July 18, 2024, was
made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Murtaugh and
approved with a 4-0 vote.
11. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson stated that a large part of our revenue sources is from the tax
base, and if we want the Village to pay to maintain our sidewalks we would need
to increase our tax base. Trustee Nicholson reminded residents to use the shuttle
for the concerts at Senasqua Park, on August 6th a “Night Out” with the Croton
Police Department will be held at the Municipal Building.
Trustee Simon advised that a Project Mover meeting was held this afternoon, and
we look forward to the bike share pilot program starting in August in Ossining,
Rotary Car Show will take place on Sunday, October 29th, the HEART Committee
will be holding a meeting tomorrow evening as they continue to work on plans to
honor people in our community, thanked Croton 100 and the clean-up crew for
taking care of Senasqua Park.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that the transparency of any potential development in
Croton needs to include a vigorous dialogue with the residents and the developer
and encourages putting together a Q and A as soon as possible.
Mayor Pugh stated that he has been very consistent on the need for more housing
and read his candidate statement that he made to the League of Woman Voters
that was published in their 2014 Candidate Guide when he was running for
Trustee. Mayor Pugh advised that a blood drive will be held this weekend from
10am-4pm.

Village Board of Trustees
July 24, 2024
Page 25

Village Manager Healy advised that the Village has posted two job openings, one
is for a Permit Clerk/Spanish speaking in the Clerk’s office and the other is an
Assistant General Foreman in the Public Works Department. Village Manager
Healy explained that the work on the sidewalks at Gotwald Circle, which was
funded through CHIPS, was to make them handicap accessible, the sidewalk
improvements that were done at Five Corners and Gerstein Street were done
through money that was received from Congressman John Hall many years ago,
that funding was repurposed for the paving of Cleveland Drive and part of the
repaving project, we made all sidewalk ramps ADA accessible. Village Manager
Healy advised that the Dog Ordinance is enforced by our Police Department and
anyone can appear before the Village Justice and make a sworn
statement/complaint if they have witnessed someone not abiding by the law, he
will reach out to DPW regarding the comments made about the River Walk, even
though the River Walk is a gem to the community, everyone needs to understand
that during storms, our parks are secondary to our local roads and the first order
is getting our roads reopened and cleaned up.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Murtaugh. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 12:01.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

