Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, September 11, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Associate for Village Attorney, Taryn Ramey
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Politi (arrived at 7:07pm)
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the pledge
of allegiance. Mayor Pugh asked for a moment of silence in recognition of 9-11.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 24251033-24251292. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0 Vote. (Trustee Politi not present at the time of
the vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

272,688.21
25,714.31
7,528.88
$158,324.61
$4,615.00

3. PUBLIC HEARING
A Motion to open a Public hearing on the special permit application for the
installation of an integrated energy system at Croton Auto Park, 1 Municipal Place
was made by Trustee Nicholson. Motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and
approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi not present at the time of the vote.)
Village Manager Healy advised that the Fire Department provided comments as
part of the Special Permit review process and their comments were addressed with
respect to moving the equipment away from the power lines and roadway.
Peter Frazio, Project Manager for Sprocket Power, stated that they resolved the
concerns that the electrical equipment was too close to the roadway, after working
with their design engineers and the property owner the equipment was relocated.
Mr. Frazio added that this project will bring in solar power, battery storage, as well
as charging stations.
To view the entire power point presentation, you may log onto the following:

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 2

https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fplay.champd
s.com%2FATT%2Fcrotononhudsonny%2F202409%2F54ab9ec19c9ce2fa6ca26f4f871bdc27f8c2e14a.pptx&wdOrigin=BROWSELIN
K
Comments:
Michael ??????, ?? Moore Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked for a clarification of
the exact location and how that affects Con-Edison.
Sandra Kolk, 114 Elmore Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if the residents of
Maple Commons will overlook this and will they be impacted.
Peter Frazio advised that the equipment will now be in the back of the building
where cars are stored, Con-Edison had a little advantage when the equipment was
closer to the roadway, but they will now have to do a little more work. Mr. Frazio
stated that the residents will see the canopy just like a rooftop of any building, but
the equipment is hidden and covered and will not have an impact.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that even though we
cannot seem to get a straight answer when it comes to electric vehicles and
battery storage, he supports new businesses in Croton and looks forward to the
installation, he also expressed his objection to the way the applicant was treated
by a member of the Planning Board during the review process.
Trustee Simon stated that this is a long-term investment in Croton, and we
appreciate that one of our local businesses was willing to put up half a million
dollars and to be a showcase for the coming automotive age.
There being no further comments to come before the Road a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution:
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application from
Sprocket Power of Bedford Hills, New York, proposing the installation of an integrated

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 3

energy system at Croton Auto Park, located at 1 Municipal Place, comprising a battery
energy storage system with a 280 kWh output, and
WHEREAS Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage Systems are permitted through the issuance of
a special permit by the Village Board of Trustees within the C- 2 zoning district, and
WHEREAS this action is a Type II action under the New York State Environmental Quality
Review Act, which does not require an environmental review, and
WHEREAS on July 17, 2024, the Village Board referred the special permit application to
the Planning Board for a recommendation, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board has provided a memorandum in support of the application,
and
WHEREAS a public hearing was opened and closed on September 11, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:that the Village Board of Trustees hereby grants the
special permit to Sprocket Power for the installation of an integrated energy system at
Croton Auto Park, 1 Municipal Place, subject to the following conditions: 1. That site plan
approval for the Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System shall be obtained from the
Planning Board; 2. That a building permit shall be obtained prior to any construction on
the Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System.
4. RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL:
Email from Sandra Kolk, 114 Elmore Avenue, Croton on Hudson, dated August 26,
2022, asking if the Village will commit to a survey to obtain opinions on multifamily development, agree to a 2-5-year moratorium on multi-family development,
and agree that any potential developments be limited to 35’ or three-stories.
Mayor Pugh stated that communities have adopted temporary Moratoriums on
development while they were considering a comprehensive Zoning plan,
Moratoriums are also used when there is a new or novel use, but Croton has had
multi-family housing even before we had Zoning and this is not a new or novel
use, while he does not want to commit to a survey, he believes it would be
appropriate in the case of the Zoning Text Amendment for the One Half Moon Bay
Petition, but does not believe it appropriate for other multi-housing projects.
Mayor Pugh advised that we received a memo from the Westchester County
Planning Department where they expressed skepticism on the One Half Moon Bay
proposal, specifically the claim that it is a Transit Oriented Development given its
distance from the train station, our existing Transit Oriented Development District

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 4

is only in the Light Industrial District west of Route 9 on Croton Point Avenue and
allows for five stories.
5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. NYS Department of State LWRP Memorandum regarding federal funding
assistance to the NYS Department of Transportation for bridge cleaning,
washing, and deck sealing, including the US-9 bridges over NY-129 in the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Politi and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the Board of
Trustees approved referring this to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for their
review. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202409/225f06253feb6aa45fc313ca9fcddda75bcb1d55.pdf
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202409/31968a4697b8dc31d8d372211b583e6de661124b.pdf
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Mary Valentine, 85 Olcott, Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she does not
understand the “In Liew of Parkland” and asked for an explanation.
Mayor Pugh stated that this refers to private properties where developers do not
have the ability to provide some type of park on their existing properties, the
money would be given to the Village by the developer and put into a “Park Trust”
Fund that would be invested in our local parks or used to acquire additional
parkland.
Village Manager Healy explained that when this law was originally developed it
dealt largely with subdivisions such as River Landing and Arrowcrest which had
areas that could be set aside for parkland and conservation, but most of our large
tracks of land have either been conserved or built on and most developments do
not have the space to have a dedicated park, and they would be required to pay a
fee to the Village per unit that will then be used to either invest in our existing
parks or the Village could pool the money to purchase property to create a new
park.
Ms. Valentine asked if the One-Half Moon Bay lot has room for a park.

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 5

Village Manager Healy stated that it could, or they could offer to pay the fee per
unit.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if Accessory
Dwelling Units have to abide by the Village’s Zoning Code and setback laws. Mr.
Mamone stated that this is basically creating a two-family home in a one-family
zone and believes it is the worse thing to do.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, recommended a six-month
Moratorium on any large-scale multi-family development and also recommended
that the Village Board listen to their Planning Board which recommended not to
allow ADU’s on smaller lots in Harmon.
Sandra Kolk, Elmore Avenue, stated that she believes that allowing ADU’s could
affect property values, she additionally asked that the Board reflect on the
possibility that this was not well thought out and that we need to revisit and revise
it.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudon stated that the Board could have
saved the developers of the One-Half Moon Bay property a lot of time and money
by just telling them upfront that their proposal was ridiculous and that it cannot be
higher than 35 feet, he is also pleased that the Village Board consulted with the
County Planning Board. Mr. Riely stated that he would like to see playground
and/or recreation space at the LOT A development and stressed that ADU’s should
not be close to a neighbor’s property line and the Village should look at each ADU
and its possible impacts on the neighbors.
Phyllis Morrow, 61 Nordica Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked what the number of
stories are for the 325 South Riverside Drive project?
Mayor Pugh stated that the building is 3 stories.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #175 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 6

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson annually contracts with a contractor to assist
the Department of Public Works with the cleaning of Village-owned buildings and
facilities, and
WHEREAS NSI Clean Worldwide, Inc., of Middletown, New York, was awarded Bid No. 62023 to provide office and building cleaning services for the period of October 1, 2023,
through September 30, 2024, at a rate of $4,200 per month, and
WHEREAS NSI Clean Worldwide, Inc. has provided satisfactory service throughout the
contract period, and
WHEREAS the Village has received a letter from NSI Clean Worldwide, Inc., formally
requesting an extension of the existing contract for an additional year,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
extend the contract with NSI Clean Worldwide, Inc., for office and building cleaning
services for the period beginning October 1, 2024, through September 30, 2025, at a
rate of $4,200 per month.
Resolution #176 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS accessory dwelling units (ADUs) provide numerous benefits to the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, including helping aging homeowners remain in their homes,
facilitating multigenerational living arrangements, adding diversity to the local housing
stock, and fostering new residents who contribute to the community, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees recently amended the Village Code to permit the
establishment of ADUs incidental and subordinate to single-family dwellings, and
WHEREAS New York State Homes and Community Renewal (HCR) has issued a Request
for Proposals to fund the development of ADUs under the Plus One ADU Program, aimed
at supporting low- and middle-income homeowners in creating new ADUs or bringing
existing units into compliance, and
WHEREAS Habitat for Humanity of New York City and Westchester has been awarded
funding for this purpose and must partner with a municipality to implement the Plus One
ADU Program; and

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 7

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson wishes to partner with Housing Action
Council, Inc. and Habitat for Humanity of New York City and Westchester to offer this
assistance to Village homeowners, and
WHEREAS the responsibilities of the Parties are outlined in the Memorandum of
Understanding, including the Village’s role in facilitating the preparation of scopes of
work, overseeing construction, assisting with permits, and monitoring compliance over a
10-year period,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the Memorandum of Understanding between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Housing
Action Council, Inc., and Habitat for Humanity of New York City and Westchester, as
attached hereto, to implement the Plus One ADU Program within the Village of Crotonon-Hudson.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that the Village Board worked on this for approximately three years
and adopted a global limit on the number of ADU’s to fifty and the Planning Board and
Building Department are doing a very good job making sure that existing ADU’s are
compliant with the Zoning parameters that the Board adopted, the Board is very excited
about this partnership because people who may be economically challenged will have the
opportunity to receive some assistance as long as they meet all the requirements in the
law.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that this is also an opportunity to get permitting assistance to
bring a home with an existing ADU into compliance and make it safer for both the tenant
and the homeowner.
Trustee Nicholson stated that this is just another aspect of this non-profit on how they
support communities and support housing.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Board worked off the County’s Accessory Dwelling Unit
Ordinance and made significant changes that include Planning Board review, neighbor
notification, setbacks of ten feet, FAR (Floor Area Ratio) constraints, and lot coverage.
Mayor Pugh stated that he is aware that the Planning Board recommended that Harmon
be excluded, but the Board did not agree with that recommendation, accessory dwelling
units will present an opportunity for families to keep families together as well as having
an income to maintain their existing property and we believe that all areas of the Village
should have that opportunity and should not be limited to people who have lots of an
acre or more. Mayor Pugh stated that there are already several long-standing multi-

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 8

family homes in the Harmon area, which have been able to co-exist in harmony with the
neighborhood and disagrees with the comment that it will negatively affect property
values.
Resolution #177 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton Business Council and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson entered into
a Memorandum of Understanding dated August 29, 2024, regarding the "Oktoberfest"
festival, which is anticipated to attract approximately three thousand (3,000) attendees
on Grand Street between Old Post Road S. and Mt. Airy Road, and
WHEREAS the parties wish to amend the Agreement to address additional considerations,
including waiving certain public safety overtime costs and providing the Village’s shuttle
bus and driver at no cost to the Croton Business Council, and
WHEREAS the proposed Amendment outlines the revised cost responsibilities and
payment terms, including the provision of public safety services and the shuttle bus, and
specifies the process for handling additional services if required,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the Amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding with the Croton Business Council,
as attached hereto.
Resolution #178 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police Department hosted a National Night
Out event on August 6, 2024, which required additional overtime personnel services, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2024-2025 General Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $625.99 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
account:

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 9

A7550.1200 – Celebrations – Personnel Services Overtime: $625.99
Resolution #179 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS in recent years, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has restructured its business
office to facilitate its various services, and
WHEREAS permitting and licensing activity has increased in recent years, and
WHEREAS, the addition of a Permit Clerk (Spanish Speaking) position was not included in
the 2024-2025 General Fund budget, but is necessary to ensure the smooth operation of
Village government,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: the Village Board authorizes the Village Treasurer to
amend the 2024-2025 General Fund budget as follows:
General Fund Expenses
Increase:
A1410.1000 – CLERK-PERSONNEL SRVCS

$42,531

Decrease:
A1410.1100 – CLERK-PERSONNEL SRVCS PT
A9040.8000 – WORKERS COMP-UNDISTRIBUTED
A1990.4000 – CONTINGENCY-CONTRACTUAL

$ 9,000
$30,000
$ 3,531

Resolution #180 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS in 2023 the Village of Croton-on-Hudson’s Police Department applied to the
New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services for a Law Enforcement Technology
Grant, and
WHEREAS in 2024 the grant was awarded to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson in the
amount of $277,677.88 for various Police Department equipment, and

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 10

WHEREAS the Village Manager and Village Treasurer recommend the Board establish a
capital project to manage the grant expenditures,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Village Board authorizes the establishment of a
Capital Project for the purchase of Police Department equipment as outlined in the grant
application in the amount of $277,677.88.
Resolution #181 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has introduced Local
Law Introductory No. 10-2024, which proposes amendments to the Zoning Law of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Chapter 230, regarding the reservation of parkland, and
WHEREAS the proposed local law includes amendments to Sections 230-73 and 230-123
of the Zoning Code to update the provisions related to the reservation of parkland and
the payment of fees in lieu thereof, and
WHEREAS it is required by law to hold a public hearing to provide an opportunity for
residents and interested parties to comment on the proposed local law,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby schedules a public
hearing to be held on September 25, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Room of
the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520 to consider Local Law Introductory No. 10-2024.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that this will help strengthen and formalize the process by which
developments provide new funding for recreational opportunities.
Trustee Nicholson recommended that before the public hearing there be a short synopsis
explaining what exactly this is with more detail, so the public is made clear of what we
are talking about.
Resolution #182 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 11

WHEREAS the Department of State (DOS) has established the NY Forward Program to
provide funding for downtown revitalization projects in smaller communities, including
economic and community development, public works, arts and cultural facilities, and
related place-making projects, and
WHEREA the NY Forward Program offers up to $4.5 million in funding to support projects
that enhance small business growth, building reuse, redevelopment, and main street
revitalization and connectivity, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson seeks to leverage this funding opportunity to
support a variety of projects aimed at enhancing the downtown area, including
streetscaping, sidewalk improvements, and other initiatives that connect the Upper
Village with the Hudson River waterfront and nearby business and housing corridors, and
WHEREAS C.T. Male Associates of Latham, NY, has proposed to provide grant writing
services to assist the Village in preparing a comprehensive application for the NY Forward
Program, including site visits, project site reviews, and preparation of required narratives
and cost estimates, and
WHEREAS the proposed agreement with C.T. Male Associates is for a lump sum amount
of $6,500 to be paid for the aforementioned services, including coordination with Village
staff and submission of the application through the Consolidated Funding Application
portal by the deadline of October 18, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
enter into and execute an agreement with C.T. Male Associates of Latham, NY for grant
writing services in an amount not to exceed $6,500, in accordance with the terms
outlined in the proposal.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon advised that we will be conducting a Town Hall on September 23rd at 7pm
to hear from the public how they would like to see the funding spent.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that a successful grant demonstrates that the community has
given some forethought to the projects that they want to pursue and encouraged
residents to add their thoughts and ideas and referred everyone to the Village’s Website
where there is a link to the New York Forward’s page where they are accepting
suggestions from the community.
Trustee Nicholson stated that we have a short turnaround for this incredible opportunity
and asked that we make the Town Hall as constructive as possible and asked if C.T. is
the right provider of that kind of support.

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 12

Village Manager Healy advised that the Town Hall is for the community to provide input
and does not believe it is C.T. Male Associates’ intent to be present during the Town Hall.
Village Manager Healy stated that we will go over the application, explain the various
categories and then open it up so residents can share their ideas and then take those
suggestions back to the grant writer to be incorporated into the application.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked that the sound
system be improved, asked that the dog ordinance be enforced, asked for the
Board to consider a Residential Parking System in his neighborhood, objected to
having to fill out a Freedom of Information request for a simple question as to
what the cost of the granite that was delivered in the Harmon area.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned
about parking in the Harmon area and throughout Croton and is concerned that
the proposed projects will not provide enough parking on site.
Ed Rielly, 110 Truesday Drive, Croton on Hudson, advised of the passing of two
local Veterans, Robert Ferguson and Ollie Hines, contrary to what was said at the
last meeting, the Maple Commons selection was not done publicly, only the
lottery was done publicly and asked that this be made public, concerned that the
Architectural Consultants for the development on LOT A did not take into
consideration the air-conditioning equipment that would be on the roof of the
proposed building and asked that the Board follow the Planning Board’s
recommendation and downsize the proposed building.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on July 24,
2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson asked what the status is of the parking lot study, thanked the
Yacht Club for hosting Hudson River Day, thanked everyone for participating in
the 9-11 ceremony and especially those who helped to build the memorial,
thanked the Recreation Department for a very successful summer, the Recreation
Department and DPW crews are working very hard in getting AED’s successfully
installed in our fields, attended the Conservation Advisory Council where they
announced that the next Repair Café will be in January.

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 13

Village Manager Healy advised that they are working on the parking lot study, and
he hopes to have it out soon.
Trustee Simon advised that he attended the Lions Club Barbeque on Aug 22nd and
thanked them for all the work they do for Croton, met with the Seniors Club on
Friday and briefed them on the New York Forward program and he received some
good ideas, attended the Fire Council meeting on August 27th where they updated
us on their upcoming activities, a successful Arts and Crafts festival was held on
Sept 2nd, attended the Yacht Club event, had the pleasure to work with the Croton
Caring Committee and Shoprite bagging groceries for their “Help Bag Hunger
Day”, participated in a meeting on the upcoming 9A repaving project, attended
the very moving 9-11 ceremony, on September 16th the Business group will meet
to talk about the upcoming New York Forward Grant and Historic Hudson will also
be present to talk about the Blaze and how they can interact with our local
businesses.
Trustee Murtaugh advised that he attended the Police Advisory Committee
meeting last night where they talked about their annual survey in preparation of a
Town Hall in early December, the Police Advisory Committee is also working on a
bike redistribution give-way program, and they have asked everyone to hold to
their gently used bicycles until the spring. Trustee Murtaugh clarified that there
are currently parking restrictions in place on the southern portion of Hastings and
Young, they have been very successful and advised that a Residential Parking
Permit survey will be done by telephone rather than a paper survey for the area
that has been brough up by one of our speakers. Trustee Murtaugh also explained
that the Residential Parking Permit system was rejected by the residents in that
area in the past, but we look forward to seeing what this new survey brings.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he has not experienced any impact from the ADU’s
in his neighborhood.
Trustee Politi advised that the IDEA Committee and Business group is working on
the “Croton Welcomes Everyone” campaign, looks forward to the Croton
Community Calendar that will highlight all the activities taking place in Croton,
encouraged the Village to host a table at the school’s Volunteer Fair on October
8th so that High School students can see all the great committees they may want
to volunteer for, she is working on a Mico-Mobility grant, at no cost to the Village,
for our shuttle bus program, and the annual yard sale will take place this
weekend.

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 14

Mayor Pugh advised that he received enrollment figures from the School District
for the 2024-25 academic year, there are 1,057 students, an indrease of four
students over the preceding academic year, 3 of those students are from Maple
Commons, and they will continue to monitor this as more people move into Maple
Commons. Mayor Pugh stated that for historical reference, that number is 195
fewer students than the 2009-2010 academic year which was the year of peak
enrollment in the Village at 1,752. Mayor Pugh advised that Lindsay Audin, with
the help of Keiko Niccolini, have successfully re-certified the Village as a Silver
Level Climate Smart Community, thanked the Town of Cortlandt for hosing this
year’s 9-11 ceremony, the Westchester County Clerk’s office was in Croton
earlier this week with their Mobil Clerk’s Office, thanked the Croton Yacht Club for
a wonderful Hudson River Day and expressed appreciation to our workforce for all
the work they do for the Village and thanked our staff for the seriousness they
take with respect to workplace safety.
Village Manager Healy advised that they presented the plans for the Harmon
Firehouse expansion last night to the Visual Environment Board, and we are
getting ready to go out to bid for the next phase of the project, work continues on
the North Highland gate, received the final invoice for the work done on the Grant
street wall and is pleased to advise that we have come in under budget, an
announcement will be sent out tomorrow regarding the milling and paving of
Palmer Avenue, Michaels Lane, Loconto Street and Nordica, for the portion south
of Cedar, met with the New York State Department of Transportation on Monday
to talk about the paving project along Route 9A, they have begun the prep work
and once we have more information we will share it will the community, as part of
the Bicycle Pedestrian Master Plan, the Village had sent out approximately 80
violation notices last summer advising homeowners that their sidewalks needed to
be repaired, the majority of property owners have addressed their sidewalks,
those that did not, the Village brought in a contractor to make those repairs and
those residents will be billed for that service, the County is moving forward with a
plan to replace the Quaker Bridge, meetings will be scheduled with the Town of
Cortlandt and the Village, the County will undertake an initial phase of the
engineering work in early 2025.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and
approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:24pm.
Respectively submitted,

Village Board of Trustees
September 11, 2024
Page 15

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

