APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 29, 2023
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), C. Colombo (133), J. Streany (275), M. Feminella
(162), D. Vlad (318), W. Skiba (267), T. Kaplan (501), K. Goldstein (576), P. Dinkler (150)
EXCUSED: G. Tucci
Department Members: E. Conti (137), J. Delaney (350), T. Dinkler (152), D. Dunn (342), J.
Dymes (623), K. Tucci (588)
Others in Attendance: Mayor B. Pugh, Trustee L. Simon
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Chief Munson at 19:04.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Mayor Pugh reports work continues to repair
apparatus bay floor at Grand Street Firehouse. Planning for a meeting to discuss Harmon
Firehouse work 9/18/23. Asbestos abatement in progress at Croton EMS house, house will be
razed soon after this work is completed.
Trustee Simon reports the emergency funding for a new Marine 32 was approved at 8/14 Board
meeting. The Fallfest is 10/7 and the Rotary Club Car Show is 10/1.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion J. Streany / 2nd M. Feminella to approve June and July Fire Council Minutes – CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
• Application for PAF Membership with Columbian Hook & Ladder received from Angelo
Spinelli. Motion W. SKiba/2nd T, Kaplan to approve pending favorable background check –
CARRIED.
• Application for PAF Membership with Harmon Engine Company received from Eneo
Decka. Motion J. Streany/2nd D. Vlad to approve pending favorable background check –
CARRIED.
• Letter from Croton Fire Patrol nominating Josh Karpoff for the position of Chief if
pending Article 2 By-Law change is not approved, and nominating him for 1st Assistant Chief
if pending Article 2 By-Law change is approved. Motion M. Feminella/2nd J. Streany to send
to Investigation Committee – CARRIED.
• Letter from Washington Engine nominating John Munson for the position of Chief if
pending Article 2 By-Law change is approved. Motion J. Streany/2nd T. Kaplan to send to
Investigation Committee – CARRIED.
• Letter from Washington Engine nominating Chris Colombo for the position of 1st
Assistant Chief if pending Article 2 By-Law change is not approved, and nominating him for
2nd Assistant Chief if pending Article 2 By-Law change is approved. Motion M. Feminella/2nd
J. Streany to send to Investigation Committee – CARRIED.
• Letter from Columbian Hook & Ladder Company nominating Chris Caterino for the
position of 2nd Assistant Chief – motion W. Skiba/2nd T. Kaplan to send to Investigation
Committee – CARRIED.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 29, 2023
• Explorer application received for Madeline Ferguson. Application forwarded to Lead
Advisor J. Delaney.
• Excuse received from Gregg Tucci for this evening’s meeting – motion J. Karpoff/2nd C.
Colombo to approve – CARRIED.
• Letter from Harmon Engine reporting they have dropped Anthony Alfano from their
Company as a member in Bad Standing, no department property was issued so no property
received – motion J. Streany/2nd D. Vlad to approve – CARRIED.
Reports of the Chiefs
C. Colombo (2083)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Work Order submitted to DPW to repair Wayne Street side door for apparatus bay at
Harmon Firehouse.
Working with DPW to install a Decon Shower at Washington Engine Firehouse.
Progress continues on Grand Street Firehouse Bay Floor.
Working with DPW to address water leaks from AC units at Grand Street Firehouse.
Air duct cleaning is scheduled for 2nd week of September at Harmon Firehouse.
P. Dinkler reports Bay Door for one of EMS Bays at Harmon Firehouse is broken.
Thanks to all for continued efforts.

J. Karpoff (2082)
•
•
•
•

Apologies for recent absences, been dealing with illness.
Working on IAR PC at Harmon Firehouse.
A few new classes coming up at WCFTC.
Officers need to make sure new members complete Firefighter I Checklist and allow
time for equipment to be secured prior to taking classes. Working on complete New
Member Checklist type documents for all new personnel.

J. Munson (2081)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Inspection is coming up on September 16th. Please RSVP by end of this week.
Many members going to a NY Yankees game together on Friday 9/8, those in town
asked to make sure apparatus get out for alarms.
The Officer Development Course is going well. Total program time is about 50 hours.
Live burn training planned for 11/25 in New Haven.
Con Edison Emergencies training next Thursday 9/7 at Harmon Firehouse.
Thank you to all for ongoing efforts, the department appreciates it.
New Marine 32 delivered, at Westerly Marina getting put together and should be in
service in the next week or so.
New Marine 12 update – not in production yet, should begin this Fall.
New TL44 specs pretty much completed, awaiting committee to finalize them.
New “Class B” uniforms have come in and will be distributed soon.
Work in progress migrating to new records management system (RMS), a brand “ESO.”

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 29, 2023
Reports of Committees
By-Laws – J. Streany reports By-Law Committee completed changes to Article 2 as proposed by
Washington Engine. Motion J. Streany/2nd J. Karpoff to send to Companies to vote on for
decision at September Fire Council Meeting. Question J. Streany to J. Karpoff on opinion of
proposal, J. Karpoff is in favor of it, also thinks the term limit for Chief Officers should be
discussed going forward. Motion – CARRIED.
Fund Drive – T. Dinkler reports there was an issue with billing, awaiting reminder information to
send out.
LOSAP – T. Dinkler reports we may experience issues as we migrate to new Records
Management System. Discussion related to upcoming LOSAP Referendum Vote followed.
Fire Prevention – T. Kaplan reports Fire Fair will be on Sunday 10/8. Requisitions submitted to
order hand-outs/items needed. Work detail on 10/2 to prepare materials to give out to schools.
CET visit either 10/4 or 10/5, will confirm.
Investigation Committee – M. Feminella requests personnel to assist with this committee, J.
Munson will work with him to fill the committee’s needs.
Special Order of Business: None
Unfinished Business: None
New Business:
Letter received from Washington Engine requesting to host a Holiday Raffle with a drawing on
12/18/23. Motions J. Streany/2nd D. Vlad to approve – CARRIED.
J. Streany proposed making a donation to annual Westchester County Weekend at NYS
Firefighters’ Home. Motion M. Feminella/2nd K. Goldstein to donate $250 – CARRIED.
J. Karpoff invited all members to Fire Patrol’s Halloween Party on 10/21 at Harmon Firehouse.
J. Munson proposed purchase of softball uniforms for CFD softball team up to $900. Motion J.
Karpoff/2nd T. Kaplan to approve – CARRIED.
J. Streany moved to enter Executive Session to discuss a personnel matter at end of regular
meeting – motion J. Streany/2nd J. Karpoff to conduct Executive Session following this meeting
– CARRIED.
Treasurer’s Report: Balance of $62,574.77. Motion w. Skiba/2nd D. Vlad to accept
Treasurer’s Report – CARRIED.
Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad /2nd J. Karpoff – CARRIED. M eeting Adjourned at 19:58.
The Fire Council entered Executive Session at 19:58 to discuss a personnel m atter until 20:18.

Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 8/ 30/ 23.
Approved M inutes respectfully subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 9/ 27/ 23.

