MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, Apr. 21, 2024 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coordinator)
Ashley Clemente

Absent:
Dan Columbini PE

David Goldman
Jon Katz PE

Niall Kelleher (community gardens)

Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)

Len Simon (Village trustee)

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): none
Announcements: On 4/2, Keiko Niccolini submitted paperwork to re-certify Croton as a
Silver Climate Smart Community (CSC). She beat the deadline by 3 days, giving us
another 1,400 CEC points. We’re still 1st in the State with 12,400 CEC points.
- Earth Day tabling
Croton’s Earth Day this year is Saturday, April 27 from 10 AM to 4 PM at
Senasqua Park (rain date: May 4). We will once again have the covered picnic
table at the Park entrance. Members volunteered to staff that table as follows:
10 AM to noon: Dan, Jon (please arrive by ~9:45 to help Lindsay set up)
Noon to 2 PM: Dave, Ashley
2 PM to 4 PM: Keiko, Lindsay
Len will float as-needed, and Niall will be at his community garden table. We’ll have
our banner, flyers, and two 24”x18” picture boards. A FAQ sheet will be available.
- Methane Satellite Report from Ashley
Ashley reviewed his research on methane emission data from satellite-based gas
detectors. Despite a web-based claim to the contrary, he found that the one satellite
with sufficiently fine resolution data found no methane emitting from the former Croton
landfill. His excellent presentation is appended to these minutes.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Steel frames for
pedestals and racks appeared 4/8 by the
salt shed and at the north end by the
batteries. See Dave’s pic. First panels
were installed 4/10. A 4/17 drone pic is
appended to these minutes.
While photographing the south end, Dave
also took the next pic, which appears to

1

show a bowed horizontal beam. On 4/17, Sol explained how beams may bow slightly
until attached to the rest of a framework. Later pics showed the beam straightened
out. We discussed the need to monitor the work.
Washington firehouse net metering: Despite net
metering being in NYPA’s tariff, a NYPA official
claimed that “Con Ed now only offers VDER $ credits
[which give us no carbon credits] and we are following
its lead.” (NYPA gets our meter data from Con Ed.)
Due to a lack of net metering, we are presently “giving
away” ~½ the solar output to the Con Ed grid. In the
end, he agreed to provide contact info for the Con Ed
person to act on our metering request. If successful,
we will be the first NYPA-powered muni to get net
metering. Thank you to Jon for (once again) clarifying
issues with the VDER process.
DPW solar parking canopy: Croton Energy Group (CEG) said a ~50 kW canopy is
feasible. At $4.50/W, it would cost ~$225K. NY-SUN could cut that by ~$60K but may
not be available by the time we’re ready to build. If so, DirectPay would reimburse
~$67K. If we do get the NY-SUN $, DirectPay would drop to ~$49K. At this time, all
numbers are approximate. To ensure we get the $60K, Lindsay will seek ways to
expedite that project.
Harmon firehouse addition: Bryan forwarded a list of issues raised by Lindsay re:
draft docs and equipment choices (e.g., gas-fired A/C) to Village staff for review. [On
4/23, a zoom on the issues was set up for May 1. The goal is to ensure the final
mechanical design minimizes carbon emissions.] Issues (e.g., heat pumps, solar) with
Harmon’s main building will be addressed later.
Gouveia Park house: A ~20 kW rooftop may be feasible, but re-roofing (costing
roughly $20K) is a pre-requisite. We have CEC grant $ to pay for i solar, but the
Village would need to re-roof. Brian indicated that other work (e.g. connection to or
septic system) will need to be done first to make the site usable by the Rec. Dept. His
timeline indicated that roofing and solar would need to wait until ~2026.
- Heat Pumps
Washington firehouse garage HPs: Jon secured two proposals and was confident
his design (using six 9,000 Btuh HPs) could be done for ~$50K, including electric
work. He raised several design issues (e.g., an existing garage exhaust system) that
might impact his design. He, Dan, and Lindsay will hash out the issues while staffing
our Earth Day table.
Brian OKed using the $100K fungible CREST money (instead of NYSERDA grants)
for those HPs. Doing so will avoid $ hassles with NYSERDA and would include a
small electric boiler to end use of fuel oil at the site. It would only run on very cold days
when the heat pumps could not alone handle the load. Lindsay estimated that a
40,000 Btuh electric boiler and electric service would cost under $20K. Bernie (former
2

committee member) agreed to assist with the electrical design and cost estimation.
CREST would also cover decommissioning the 45-year old underground oil tank.
DPW HPs: Regarding replacing four of the 25-year old A/Cs with ASHPs, we await a
Level II ASHRAE energy audit (on-site visit was done on 3/14) that would evaluate
that option (and others). We should get results before our May meeting.
- EV/EVSE
Our $150K DEC grant for EV chargers remains stalled while we await notification that
the State’s new grant management software (SFS GM) is ready-for-prime-time.
- Financial and Budgeting Issues
Via email, Len overviewed the NYS tax credit for EV chargers. While there’s no $ in it
for us (because Croton does not pay income taxes), there are opportunities for
individuals and businesses. His report is appended to these minutes.
Len will review U.S, DOE’s Energy Future grant option (and whether Croton could
access it) for our May meeting. In its first round, some munis in other states got $ from
it. Len will see if we can get in line for its next iteration.
As mentioned at our last meeting, in response to budget cuts by the PSC, NYSERDA
plans to cut back the CEC program in 2026 and move what’s left into the CSC
program. However, HVRC said Croton should come out OK because it’s likely to
remain among the top ~50 munis that NYSERDA says it would continue to serve. The
plan would cut ~800 of the 850 participating munis, including ~25 in Westchester
County, e.g., Ossining, Cortlandt, and the County itself. Lindsay submitted comments
on the proposal, but it’s unlikely that PSC or NYSERDA will reverse themselves.
Formal applications for our $175K and $250K grants were submitted 4/18/24. The first
will go toward ~44 kW of solar arrays and heat pumps at the Harmon firehouse and its
EMS addition. The second will go toward a ~50 kW DPW solar canopy and perhaps
heat pumps, if suggested by the DPW energy audit.
- Other Reports
A 4/8 chat with Leo Wiegman at SW verified that community solar credits in Con Ed
bills have become erroneous, as Dave recently found in his bills. Leo said SW has
been inundated with complaints about the screw-ups, which started late last year. He
felt things may work out in this quarter, but there’s no guarantee. A formal complaint to
PSC is being considered.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
The following appeared in the April Village newsletter: “In 2023, several notable
achievements in energy conservation have been observed, including a significant
decrease in the amount of electricity and heating oil usage at the Washington Engine
Firehouse, which can largely be attributed to the installation of a rooftop solar array
3

and heat pump.” [Preliminary data appears to show a ~75% cut in oil use and a ~93%
(if net metered) cut in electricity consumption.]
On 4/16, Lindsay did a brief PowerPoint zoom for Croton’s Planning Board on our
involvement with the CEC program.
- New Business / Other Issues
None.
To avoid the Memorial Day weekend, the date for our next meeting was set for
Sunday, May 19 at 10:30 AM via zoom.
Len’s Report on the NYS Tax Credit for Public and Workplace Charging
From my review there is no provision for its application to the public sector and nothing
comparable to the new federal Direct Pay program. As was the case with federal energy
tax credits prior to the advent of Direct Pay, the NY state tax credits are all targeted to
taxpayers.
Though not applicable to the public sector, I thought it would be interesting for you and
the Committee to know how the program works. Here’s a link to the program description
from the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance:
https://www.tax.ny.gov/pit/credits/alt_fuels_elec_vehicles.htm.
Below are excerpts from their summary.
Who Is Eligible? You or your business is entitled to this nonrefundable credit for
investments in new alternative fuels vehicle refueling property or electric vehicle
recharging property for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2013.
How much is the credit? The credit for each installation of property is equal to the
lesser of $5,000 or 50% of the cost of property less any cost paid from the proceeds of
grants that:
• is located in New York State;
• is used 50% or more during the tax year in a trade or business carried on in New
York State;
• constitutes alternative fuels vehicle refueling property or electric vehicle refueling
property; and
• has not been paid for from the proceeds of grants awarded before January 1,
2015, including grants from the New York State Energy Research and
Development Authority or the New York Power Authority.
You may claim this credit if you invest in qualifying alternative fuels vehicle refueling
property or electric vehicle recharging property and you are a: (1) transportation and
transmission corporation taxable under Article 9, sections 183 and 184; or (2) business
corporation taxable under Article 9-A.
While this EV charger New York State Tax Credit is not applicable to municipalities,
hopefully the existence and implementation of Direct Pay at the federal level will help
4

inspire progressive legislatures like NY State to enact comparable provisions within their
own tax codes. I’ll discuss with the Mayor recommending to our state delegation in
Albany that something along the federal DirectPay provisions be considered for the
state.
Ashley’s Review Of Satellite-based Methane Detections at Landfills

5

Note: Carbonmapper found no detectable methane leaking from the former Croton
landfill, which was capped and closed in 1984. Since then, methane has been
vacuumed below ground and burned, cutting its GHG impact by ~95%.

6

First Drone Photo of Train Station Canopy Work (at the south end)

7

