WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, March 11th, 2024 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room
PRESENT Len Simon, Chairperson
Stuart Greenbaum
Steve Krisky
Ian W. Murtaugh
Leo Wiegman
ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
Bryan Healy, Village Manager
1) CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Simon called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of March 11th, 2024 to order at 4:30
p.m.
2) REFERRALS
a) Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 5 of 2024 to update Chapter 206,
Telecommunications Towers, of the Village Code to provide for the regulation of wireless
facilities in the Village.
Dan O’Connor stated that the Village has a dated telecommunications law, approximately 25 years old.
Updating this local law will make the Village in compliance with federal law. The law also lays out
procedures for obtaining permits.
Village Manager Healy stated that this update was a culmination of a month-long study and Len Simon
added that similarly to the updated solar law, there will be some amendments and updates as this goes
along. Ian Murtaugh clarified that they are reviewing the consistency for a policy, not for a specific project.
Steve Krisky asked for clarification as to why this new code will not go before the Planning Board and the
reason is that the telecommunications law is not going into the Village’s Zoning Code. It is written into the
Village Code that any changes to the Zoning Code must go to the Planning Board, but this code will be in
the General Legislation section of the Village Code.
The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of consistency
with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.
The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and noted that:
* On B Description of Site and Proposed Action #3, “Location of actions” should be changed to
Include “All Zoning Districts.”
* On B Description of Site and Proposed Action #5, “Present land use” should be changed to
“All land uses.”
The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that the words “No
environmental resources will be affected” should be added to the last page entitled Attachment A to SEQR
SEAF Part 1.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policy as noted in the memo
attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency.
MOTION: Steve Krisky made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Leo Wiegman,
and the motion carried, by a vote of 5 – 0.
3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of February 21st, 2024,
seconded by Leo Wiegman, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with Stuart Greenbaum abstaining
since he was absent from this meeting.
4. ADJOURNMENT:
There being no further business, Stuart Greenbaum made a motion for adjournment, seconded by Steve
Krisky, and the meeting adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee
**Minutes approved May 20, 2024**

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

