Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, January 10, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Simon

1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23243271 through 23243871. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$409,055.06
$37,662.16
$30,350.86
$28,544.11
$659.00

3. PRESENTATION:
A Proclamation and Key to the Village was presented to former Mayor Dr.
Greg Schmidt in recognition of his contributions to the Village.
4. TRAFFIC SAFETY
NIKITOPOULOS

PRESENTATION

FROM

CHIEF

OF

POLICE

JOHN

https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fplay.c
hampds.com%2FATT%2Fcrotononhudsonny%2F202401%2Fc295e79594cb7f6547ce53d37c6466158a30e61d.pptx&wdOrigin=BRO
WSELINK
Trustee Simon asked Police Chief Nikitopoulos what we can expect from the
new speed signs, and where are we in terms of DWI summonses.
Police Chief Nikitopoulos stated that the new speed signs collect a lot more
data, the speed signs are also equipped with flashing lights, and we have
found that people are reacting to them, with respect to DWI’s, they have

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 2

made several arrests this year, and have discussed doing a joint DWI patrol
with Ossining, as well as engaging with Westchester County Police.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that based on a survey that was sent to residents,
traffic concerns were at the top of the list, which is why the Village moved to
reduce the speed limit. Trustee Murtaugh commented that he was not aware
that the speed detectors collected data and asked what type of data can be
generated.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that they track the speed and the volume of cars.
Trustee Nicholson asked how many summonses were issued on Route 9 vs.
Village streets and is there an obligation from a state perspective that we
need to be patrolling Route 9. Trustee Nicholson also addressed the
challenge with the speed sign trailers because they take away parking
spaces, which is an issue especially on Maple Street.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that we have given out a decent number of
summonses on Route 9, but he does not have that data with him this
evening, State and County Police also have jurisdiction to issue summonses
on Route 9, but when there is a call regarding an incident on Route 9, it is
referred to the Croton Police Department. Chief Nikitopoulos stated that he
has been in discussion with the Village Manager and the Superintendent of
Public Works regarding the placement of these trailers, we currently have
one that is taking up one parking space, but we believe Maple Street is a
valuable place to have it.
Mayor Pugh stated that being below the pre-pandemic numbers in terms of
accidents is a real accomplishment and congratulated Chief Nikitopoulos as
well as the work that was done by our Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee
that assisted in improving the Village’s infrastructure. Mayor Pugh stated
that it is not about issuing tickets, but rather about instituting safer behavior
and he believes that our Police Department is doing that. Mayor Pugh asked
what role license plate readers play in traffic safety.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that the reader recently contributed to the Police
Department identifying and charging the person involved in a recent
accident.
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 3

Mayor Pugh said that the streets that currently have silent radar detectors
do not seem to have registered a high number of speeders and asked if
there is a particular threshold that they use to determine where they are
placed.
Chief Nikitopoulos stated that we have put these detectors in numerous
locations, but if a resident is concerned about a particular area they should
reach out to the Police Department so that we can place a detector in that
area.
Chief Nikitopoulos advised that they received a complaint today from an
elderly resident in the Village who was scammed-out of $15,000. Chief
Nikitopoulos urged all residents to be extremely careful not to give out
information on the phone, the Police Department will be making another
presentation to the senior group very soon.
5. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 23 of 2023 to
amend Chapter 179, Property Maintenance of the Village Code to
provide for the removal of weeds, brush, and rubbish, as well as the
registration and maintenance of vacant commercial buildings.
A motion was made by Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee
Nicholson to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 23 of 2023
to amend Chapter 179, Property Maintenance of the Village Code (Article 1)
to provide for the removal of weeds, brush, and rubbish, and (Article 2) the
registration and maintenance of vacant commercial buildings. Motion was
approved with a 5-0 vote.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202401/bba1b2ac4924a7a86a3492cdb08733cb205c3418.pdf
Village Manager Healy advised that this law brings the language in Article 1
more in line with the State’s “Property Maintenance Code”, Article 2 is a new
article which will require vacant commercial buildings to register with the
Engineering Department if the building is vacant for more than six months.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village Engineer has forwarded
additional language he would like included in both articles.
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 4

Based upon the recommendation of the Village Attorney, the Board agreed
that it would be best to close the Public Hearing and re-notice it with the
additional language.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon and seconded by
Trustee Politi. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Public Hearing to consider the adoption of the official map of the
Village of Croton on Hudson, New York.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202401/744d823eb90af5baa93b1436c2e3d7c1f4b394ef.pdf
A motion was made by Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Simon
to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of the official map of the
Village of Croton on Hudson. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy advised that he has received a number of comments
from the Planning Board that he and the Village Attorney have not had a
chance to fully research and recommended that we leave the Public Hearing
open so that they can review their comments.
DISCUSSION:
Lewis Montana, 5 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that streets
that are designated for emergency use only should be included on the
Official Map so that people understand where the emergency use only
streets are.
Trustee Nicholson stated that the emergency use only street next to
Ackerman Court is noted on the Planning Board map.
Ron Sanchez, 114 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, referred to a piece of
property that is not on the official map, but where a group wanted to cut a
new path from the DEC property.
Village Manager Healy advised that the piece of property Mr. Sanchez is
referring to is across the Croton River from Silver Lake, and while it is
owned by the Village the property is located within the Town of Cortlandt
and would not appear on the Village’s Official Map.
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 5

There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
adjourn the the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon and seconded by
Trustee Murtaugh. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
6.

REVIEW OF THE VILLAGE’S LOCAL WATERFRONT REVITALIZATION
PROGRAM POLICIES BY THE VILLAGE BOARD RELATED TO THE
WESTCHESTER COUNTY PARKS DEPARTMENT CROTON POINT PARK
BULKHEAD WALL COPING REPLACEMENT PROJECT BEING DONE AT CROTON
POINT PARK.

Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore, revitalize, and redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized
waterfront areas for commercial,
industrial, cultural, recreational and
other compatible uses
Existing planning and zoning documents
should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure
development within the community is
consistent with adopted goals and
policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned
land at the Metro North Train Station,
including Village garage and bay area.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro North Train
Station, while facilitating public access
to bay area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the
municipality to encourage the mutual
cooperation and exchange of
information between governmental
agencies involved in clean-up of the
Croton landfill and Metro-North lagoon
in order to develop commercial use of
resources found in the coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant
site at the intersection of Route 9A and
Municipal Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters

1A

1B

1C

1D

1E
2

.

WAC RESPONSE

Applicable
Yes/No
No

No

No

No

No

No
No

Consistent
Yes/No

VILLAGE BOARD

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 6

Expand restrictions on the use of power
boats on the Hudson River and Croton
River and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters
that regulate boat traffic such a speed,
turbidity, safety, and mooring and
sludge disposal. Such controls will
further increase the compatibility of
power boat use with other forms of
recreation use within the coastal zone
area.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of major ports is not
applicable to
Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the
strengthening of small harbors is not
applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development
in areas where public services and
facilities essential to such development
are adequate, except when such
development has special functional
requirements or other characteristics
which necessitate its location in other
coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water
and sewer facilities or in close proximity
to areas where distribution lines
currently exist.
The extension of water and sewer
distribution lines beyond areas currently
served should be undertaken cautiously
and with prudent regard for Village
water resources and the preservation of
environmental values in undeveloped
areas.
Limit proposed development within
those portions of the coastal zone
boundary area, where traffic impacts
such as site distance and carrying
capacity of the roadways are restricted,
particularly along Route 9A, Albany Post
Road and Route 129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the
Village shall coordinate all relevant local
laws into a development package for
applicants and/or make all local laws
available to applicants proposing

2A

3

4

5

5A

5B

5C

6
6A

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 7

development activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife
habitats will be protected, preserved,
and, where practical, restored so as to
maintain their viability as habitats.

7

The quality of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitat shall be protected and
improved for conservation, economic,
aesthetic, recreational, and other public
uses and values. Its resources shall be
protected from the threat of pollution,
misuse, and mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
the Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of
or allowed to drain in, or on land within,
the area of influence in the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River
and Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat or Haverstraw Bay significant
fish and wildlife habitat shall not be
permitted within the area of influence of
the habitat unless best available
technology is used to prevent adverse
impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay
and Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitats and shore lands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of
any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
sites.
Runoff from public and private parking
lots and from storm sewer overflows
shall be effectively channeled so as to
prevent oil, grease, and other
contaminants from polluting surface and
ground water and impact the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.

7A

7B

7C

7D

7E

.

Yes

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

This project will
restore the prestorm (Hurricane
Ida) access to the
County Park.
These repairs will
also help to
preserve the park
for future years to
come. Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 8

7F

7G

8

9

9A

9B

10

.

Construction activity of any kind must
not cause a measurable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such
activity, or impact other locations.
Construction activity shall be timed so
that spawning of anadromous fish
species and shellfish will not be
adversely affected.
Such activities must not cause
degradation of water quality or impact
identified significant fish and wildlife
habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain,
or which cause significant sub lethal or
lethal effect on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts
shall be made in a manner which
ensures the protection of renewable fish
and wildlife resources and considers
other activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through
Village-owned land adjacent to the
Metro-North parking lot, at Croton Point
Park and at Senasqua Park, along the
Croton River, and at the Croton Yacht
Club. Efforts should be made to
encourage recreational use of the fish
and wildlife resources found in these
areas by increasing the opportunities for
public access and enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational
enjoyment of the wildlife in the
designated significant fish and wildlife
habitats, on the Audubon Society
Sanctuaries, on other public or private
lands within the Village, where wildlife
habitats are located. Encourage the
recreational use of areas where such
resources are found, as well as the
protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in
the coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new or improvement of
existing onshore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
state's seafood products, maintaining
adequate stocks, and expanding

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 9

aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall
be made in a manner which ensures the
protection of renewable fish and wildlife
resources and considers other activities
dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be
sited in the coastal area so as to
minimize damage to property and the
endangering of human lives caused by
flooding and erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures
shall be undertaken in order to
safeguard persons, protect property,
prevent damage to the environment,
and promote the public welfare by
guiding, regulating and controlling the
design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or
other activity which disturbs or breaks
the topsoil or results in earth movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to
minimize damage to natural resources
and property from flooding and erosion
by protecting natural protective features
including beaches, dunes, barrier
islands and bluffs. Primary dunes will
be protected from all encroachments
that could impair their natural protective
capacity
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier
to Croton Bay from activities or
development that would increase
erosion of or flooding of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a
reasonable probability of controlling
erosion for at least thirty years as
demonstrated in design and
construction standards and/or assured
maintenance or replacement programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must
be maintained in good condition and
private landowners should be required
to restore and maintain erosion control
mechanisms along their river frontage
which are designed for long term
stability.
Activities and development, including
the construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures, shall be

11

11A

12

12A

13

13A

14

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 10

undertaken so that there will be no
measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activities or
development, or at other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in
coastal waters shall not significantly
interfere with the natural coastal
processes which supply beach materials
to land adjacent to such waters and
shall be undertaken in a manner which
will not cause an increase in erosion of
such land.
Public funds shall only be used for
erosion protective structures where
necessary to protect human life, and
new development which requires a
location within or adjacent to an erosion
hazard area to be able to function, or
existing development; and only where
the public benefits outweigh the long
term monetary and other costs including
the potential for increasing erosion and
adverse effects on natural protective
features
Public funds shall be appropriated for
the yearly maintenance of Senasqua
Park until such time that is determined
that expenditure of funds outweighs the
cost of acquiring, constructing and
maintaining a similar public park on
Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural
measures to minimize damage to
natural resources and property from
flooding and erosion. Such measures
shall include: (i) the setback of buildings
and structures; (ii) the planting of
vegetation and the installation of sand
fencing and draining; (iii) the reshaping
of bluffs; and (iv) the flood-proofing of
buildings or their elevation above the
base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes rising from
areas inland shall be of a non-structural
nature, wherever possible, in
consideration of the visual impact of
structural measures. The retention or
planting of vegetative covers will be
preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the state
and of its citizens, proposed major
actions in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to

15

16

16A

17

17A

18

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 11

the safeguards which the state has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and
facilities so that these resources and
facilities may be fully utilized in
accordance with reasonably anticipated
public recreation needs and the
protection of historic and natural
resources. In providing such access,
priority will be given to public beaches,
boating facilities, fishing areas and
waterfront parks.

19

Encourage the linkage of open space
along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in
the form of a trail or walkway system.
Such systems should be provided along
undeveloped and underutilized land as
well as along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that
have specific value for their physical and
visual access to the Hudson River or
Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public
transportation, when feasible, to areas
within the coastal zone area where
water dependent and water enhanced
recreation activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and
Bay at the Village-owned land south of
the Village parking lots at the CrotonHarmon Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access
to the Croton River waterfront, in its
current undeveloped condition as a
pedestrian walkway.
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. Such
lands shall be retained in public
ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast,
provided it is consistent with the
preservation and enhancement of other
coastal resources and takes into
account demand for such facilities. In
facilitating such activities, priority shall

19A

19B

19C

19D

19E

20

21

.

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

This project will
restore the prestorm (Hurricane
Ida) access to the
County Park.
These repairs will
also help to
preserve the park
for future years to
come. Board
Concurred.

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Board Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 12

be given to areas where access to the
recreation opportunities of the coast can
be provided by new or existing public
transportation services and to those
areas where the use of the shore is
severely restricted by existing
development.
Boating activities should be encouraged
provided that they do not restrict other
recreational opportunities and are
undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to
the shore will provide for water-related
recreation, as a multiple use, whenever
such recreational use is appropriate in
light reasonably anticipated demand for
such activities and the primary purpose
of the development
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, in areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.

21A

22

23

Prevent impairment of scenic resources
of statewide significance as identified
on the coastal area map. Impairment
shall include: (i) the irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation,
the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition
of structures which because of siting or
scale will reduce identified views or
which because of scale, form, or

24

.

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

The main purpose
of this project is to
restore existing
structures that are
an integral part of
the Bulkhead wall
along Croton Point
Park. Repair will
replace damaged
elements and
reinstate the
structures to their
original function
and appearance.
Access to other
areas of the historic
park will once again
be restored when
the repairs are
complete. Board
Concurred.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 13

materials will diminish the scenic quality
of an identified resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified as being of statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal
area.
Protect local scenic resources by
preventing: (i) the irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or
wetlands, the destruction, or removal
of structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resources; and (ii) the
addition of structures which because of
siting scale will reduce identified views
or which because of scale, form, or
materials will diminish the scenic
quality of an identified resource.
Secure the designation of the
panoramic views from Croton Point as a
scenic area of statewide significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and
129 within the Croton boundaries as a
scenic road. Ensure developments on
or adjacent to Route 9 do not impair
scenic resources or views of or from the
Hudson and Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified viewsheds which provide visual access to
the Hudson River, including but not
limited to the views of the Hudson River
from the western shoreline of the
Village, and from Prickly Pear Hill,
Lounsbury Hill, and River Landing. In
addition, protect view-sheds to and of
the Croton River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the
protection of agricultural lands is not
applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction
of major energy facilities in the coastal
area will be based on public energy
needs, compatibility of such facilities
with the environment, and the facility's
need for a shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
damage significant fish and wildlife and
their habitats, increase shoreline

25

25A

25B
25C

25D

26

27

28

.

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 14

erosion or flooding, or interfere with the
production of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must
consider short- and long-term impacts on
the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of energy resources is not
applicable to Croton.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited to, toxic and hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water
quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose any
materials in coastal waters until such
materials have been tested by the state
for conformance with water quality
standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials
shall be monitored by the state to
assure there will be no discharge or
leaching of materials into coastal
waters.
State coastal area policies and
purposes of approved local waterfront
revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal
water classifications and while
modifying water quality standards;
however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be
recognized as being a development
constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC
should continually monitor water quality
in the Hudson River and Croton Bay
which have already been overburdened
with pollutants. Recommendations for
mitigation and upgrading water quality
classifications cannot be determined
without continual monitoring and testing
of the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in
small communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities
Best Management Practices will be

28A

29

30

30A

30B

31

31A

32

33

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 15

used to ensure the control of storm
water runoff and combined sewer
overflows draining into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain
storm water runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing
system or to improve existing storm
water runoff systems to that runoff from
such developments does not adversely
impact coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water
discharge to control flow of pollutants
from street and parking areas, etc.
directly in the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters
from vessels will be limited so as to
protect significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreational areas and water
supply areas.
There shall be no discharge from
moored structures or marine vessels,
due to shape of cove and lack of tidal
flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in
coastal waters will be undertaken in a
manner that meets existing state
dredging permit requirements, and
protects significant fish and wildlife
habitats, scenic resources, natural
protective features, important
agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other
hazardous materials will be conducted
in a manner that will prevent or at lease
minimize spills into coastal waters; all
practicable efforts will be undertaken to
expedite the cleanup of such
discharges; and restitution for damages
will be required when these spills occur.
Best Management Practices will be
utilized to minimize the non-point
discharge of excess nutrients, organics
and eroded soils into coastal waters.
Standards and specifications for the
control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County's Best
Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops,
and steep slopes should be exerted in
order to prevent erosion and minimize
runoff and flooding from new
construction.

33A

33B

34

34A

35

36

37

37A

37B

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 16

The quality and quantity of surface
water and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the
primary or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas
will be conducted in such a manner so
as to protect groundwater and surface
water supplies, significant fish and
wildlife habitats, recreation areas,
important agricultural lands and scenic
resources.
Require transporters, producers and
storers of hazardous material to inform
the public or allow public access to
records involving the transport, storage,
treatment and disposal of hazardous
materials. This is of particular concern
with respect to rail transport of such
materials, storage of identified materials
on railroad property and uses in the
waterfront area involved in the
treatment, storage and disposal of such
materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302,
Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to- Know of the 1986 Superfund
Reauthorization Act, the local
emergency planning committee and the
Croton Fire Department shall be notified
if hazardous substances exceed the
established threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial
facilities into coastal waters will not be
unduly injurious to fish and wildlife and
shall conform to state water quality
standards.
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or state air
quality standards to be violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring
station should be established within the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the state reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of
the Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of the acid rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.

38

39

39A

39B

40

41
41A
42

43

.

No

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 17

Encourage the use of shuttle bus
service to the train station, thereby
decreasing dependency on the
automobile use and reduce the
generation of acid rain precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil
fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
development of a monitoring program to
assess rail vehicle engines emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and
freshwater wetlands and preserve the
benefits derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and
watercourses shall be protected by
preventing damage from erosion or
siltation, minimizing disturbance,
preserving natural habitats and
protecting against flood and pollution.

43A

43B

44
44A

No

No

No
No

7. RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL:
Email from Doug Simmons, 1 Finney Farm Road, Croton on Hudson dated
January 9, 2024, stating that he is in support of the Accessory Dwelling Law,
ADU’s are seen by experts on aging as a tool to increase suitable housing for
older Americans and the Washington Post reported that the “AARP” has been
promoting this type of housing as well.
8.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a.

Email from John Munson, Fire Council Secretary,
membership changes in the Croton Fire Department.

regarding

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202401/eadcd83574641c06fb0085ccc2fe61399600b080.pdf
b.

Report from Camilo Rubio of New York Blood Center summarizing the
2023 Croton Community Blood Program.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/ecf3085401551e5c6313b7f6f532f28bb3baaeb5.pdf

c.

.

Notice from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority
regarding the Congestion Pricing Public Review Process.

(MTA)

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 18

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/0e475a86c0c7ae0e980ec5c95ba74c94b7130384.pdf
8.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Nance Shatzkin, 132 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated that
housing shortages are probably one of the greatest challenges we face, she
is in favor of the changes to the Accessory Apartment Law and commended
the process which has enabled thoughtful consideration of the original draft
language which has strengthened the proposed law.
Ethan Lewis, Glengary Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that Accessary
Cottages promote multi-generational living and offer affordable housing
solutions, and supports the proposed Accessory Apartment Law which
addresses the growing demands for flexible housing options without
compromising neighborhood integrity.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, blamed the Democratic
party for creating the housing crises in New York, suggested fixing up the
Gouveia house that could house two families, believes that Croton Point Park
would be a perfect place to house some of the illegal immigrants, objected
to the Village putting housing with six units under the ”Rent Guidelines
Board”, the Village should be tougher with the MTA, State and County with
respect to their properties within the Village, hopes that our Fire Department
receives an apology from School Board member Joshua Diamond and does
not believe that we should be naming every street in the Village after every
Mayor.
Maureen Fitzpatrick, 7 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
gate to the restricted emergency use only passageway that goes from Lower
N. Highland Place to Upper N. Highland Place has been left open over the
last several weeks, cars have been speeding through this restricted roadway
creating a very dangerous situation for those residents who walk in that
area and would like the emergency passage closed and to find a rational
way to provide both safety to the residents and a means of access for
emergency vehicles.
Mary Beth Powers, 3 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
also concerned about the safety issue at this location, her driveway comes in

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 19

front of that gate, there are walking trails and asked that some remedy be
made for the safety of everyone.
Lewis Montana, 5 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson stated that by keeping
the gate open this passageway has become a dangerous thoroughfare and
believes there could be an easy fix by installing a break away chain and
additional signage and implored the Village to take some action soon.
Maggie Pepperney, 9 Ackerman Court, Croton, stated that there are no
sidewalks in that area, and it has become extremely dangerous for those of
us who walk there, the current signage is poor and needs to be addressed
as well.
John Powers, 3 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, suggested putting a
police patrol car in that area from time to time to issue either a summons or
warning for people using this street illegally.
Kelly Thomann, 2 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that she walks
there all the time and having the gate open is an accident waiting to happen
and it needs to be addressed.
Regina Montana, 5 Ackerman Court, Croton on Hudson, stated that people
should not be using this emergency street as a thoroughfare because many
kids walk up and down that hill and it has become extremely dangerous.
Village Manager Healy explained that the gate had been opened due to
safety concerns because of the Synagogue in that area and the need for
Police to have faster access should something occur. Village Manager Healy
advised that we have been looking into an electronic gate, and our
Superintendent of Public Works Frank Balbi estimates that it could cost
around $30,000.
Mayor Pugh thanked residents for sharing these important safety issues, he
does not want to go much further into Police Department operations and
would like to hold this discussion with the Police Chief in an Executive
Session.
9.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #3-2024
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 20

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York;
with a vote of 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has received a request from the New York
Department of State Coastal Consistency Unit to conduct a Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program (LWRP) Consistency review for the Westchester County Parks
Department Croton Point Park Bulkhead Wall Coping Replacement Project (NYS Project
2023-0878), and
WHEREAS the Village Board has referred the assessment form and permit application to
the Waterfront Advisory Committee for review, and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, and
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows: The Village Board of Trustees makes the
following findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of
the Proposed Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found
applicable:
POLICY 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved, and,
where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.
POLICY 19: Protect, maintain, and increase the level and types of access to public water
related recreation resources and facilities so that these resources and facilities may be
fully utilized in accordance with reasonably anticipated public recreation needs and the
protection of historic and natural resources. In providing such access, priority will be
given to public beaches, boating facilities, fishing areas and waterfront parks.
POLICY 20: Access to the publicly owned foreshore and to lands immediately adjacent to
the foreshore or the water's edge that are publicly owned shall be provided and it should
be provided in a manner compatible with adjoining uses. Such lands shall be retained in
public ownership.
POLICY 23: Protect, enhance and restore structures, districts, areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 21

The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were
reviewed and found not to be applicable,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the Westchester County
Parks Department Croton Point Park Bulkhead Wall Coping Replacement Project (NYS
Project 2023-0878), complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the
Village’s LWRP.
Resolution #4-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on April 4, 2016, the Village Board of Trustees issued a special permit renewal
for ShopRite Supermarkets, Inc. to operate a retail store at 460 South Riverside Avenue,
and
WHEREAS this permit has expired and must be renewed in accordance with the Zoning
Chapter of the Village Code, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received an application from ShopRite
Supermarkets, Inc. to renew the special permit to operate a retail store at 460 South
Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS renewal of the special permit is a Type II action under the New York State
Environmental Quality Review Act, which does not require an environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby refers the special
permit application to the Village Planning Board in accordance with Village law, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a Public
Hearing on January 24, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider the application from ShopRite
Supermarkets, Inc. to renew the special permit to operate a retail store at 460 South
Riverside Avenue.
DISCUSSION:

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 22

Trustee Nicholson stated that a recent traffic study performed in conjunction with the
possible marijuana dispensary indicated that there are some issues with traffic flow in the
shopping center.
P. Daniel Hollis, from the law firm of Hollis, Laidlaw and Simon, and representing Shoprite
stated that this is just a renewal of their existing Special Permit and believes that the
traffic problem is an issue for the marijuana dispensary that they need to resolve.
Trustee Nicholson stated that, as noted in the Police Chief’s presentation, there is a traffic
problem at Shoprite that precedes the marijuana dispensary, and the Chief’s report
indicates that the top location for accidents occurs in this shopping center and is why
there is renewed interest in having that parking lot looked at with respect to improving
crosswalks and signage.
Village Manager Healy stated that Shoprite is a lessee and one of the conditions of the
site plan approval in 2016, was that a parking lot maintenance agreement be undertaken
with the landlord and the Village, but for unknown reasons that agreement did not come
into being. Village Manager Healy advised that Village Attorney Whitehead and Mr. Hollis
have been in communication about drafting some sort of an agreement that will hopefully
address the spirit of what the Planning Board wanted and the concerns that Trustee
Nicholson noted. Village Manager Healy added that the original Special Permit was issued
with a five-year term and the applicant has requested that the Special Permit be issued
on a permanent basis, he noted that the Planning Board will be giving the Village Board
their recommendation.
P. Daniel Hollis reminded everyone that having a permanent Special Permit does not
mean it is permanent without any recourse, if there is a violation of the Special Permit, it
can be revoked and brought back before the Village Board.
Resolution #5-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0
vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board wishes to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to
update regulations related to accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages in
residential districts, and

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 23

WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 21 of 2023 has been drafted for such purposes,
and
WHEREAS the Village has completed Part I of a Short Environmental Assessment Form
(EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF), and
WHEREAS the Village Board has referred the draft law and other documentation to the
Village Planning Board, Waterfront Advisory Committee, and Westchester County
Planning Board in accordance with Village and County Law, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received comments from the Westchester County
Planning Board, Village Planning Board, and Waterfront Advisory Committee, and has
taken these comments into consideration, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
21 of 2023, which was opened and closed on December 20, 2023, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the
LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS, on December 20, 2023, the Village Board reviewed the Environment
Assessment Form Part II and the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
policies by the Village Board to determine consistency related to the adoption of Local
Law Introductory No. 21 of 2023,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows The Village Board of Trustees makes the
following findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of
the Proposed Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found
applicable:
POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies.
POLICY 5: Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and
facilities essential to such development are adequate, except when such development has
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 24

special functional requirements or other characteristics which necessitate its location in
other coastal areas.
POLICY 5A: When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas
where distribution lines currently exist.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above were
reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law to amend
the provisions related to accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages in
residential districts, complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the
Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts
the EAF Parts II and III Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a
Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 21 of 2023, to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to
update regulations related to accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages in
residential districts, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 2 of 2024.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that our Comprehensive Plan identified an insufficient supply of
affordable housing as well as long term goals for our community and it has been a long
and ongoing process to address the housing needs in our community. Mayor Pugh stated
that there will be a period of amnesty for those accessory apartments that do not have a
permit, as well as enhanced enforcement and looks forward to getting grey market
apartments on the books so that we can determine that they are safe to inhabit.
Village Manager Healy advised that based on discussions with the Board, he will have a
resolution for the next meeting to waive penalties for the next four months.
Resolution #6-2024

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 25

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 5–0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village experienced a high volume of rain and consequent water leaks this
year, and
WHEREAS this resulted in increased costs for roadway repairs, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2023-2024 Water Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $5,000 from Contingency Account F1990.4000 to the following
accounts: F8340.4170 – Distribution –Contractual: $5,000
Resolution #7 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Westchester County Board of Elections (“the BOE”) uses various educational,
municipal and non-profit buildings each year for primary and general elections, and
WHEREAS the Village agreed to let the Harmon Firehouse and the Stanley H. Kellerhouse
Municipal Building Community Room be used as a polling site for the November 2023 General
Election, and
WHEREAS the Village also agreed to let the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
Community Room be used as an Early Voting site for the November 2023 General Election,
and
WHEREAS the Village incurs costs related to overtime for opening and closing the building for
the poll workers, and
WHEREAS the BOE has submitted payment to the Village in the amount of $1,167.60 for staff
overtime,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to amend the
2023-2024 General Fund Budget as follows:
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 26

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A1410.1200

Clerk-Personnel Srvcs OT

$1,167.60

GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A5110.1710

Public Works Charges

$1,167.60

10.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Tony Granger, Half Moon Bay, expressed his concern that the owner of the 1
Half Moon property along with potential buyers have been meeting and
discussing the possibility of re-zoning the property with Village officials and
is concerned that residents were not informed of these discussions, and
wants to know how the Village will keep the community informed.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, expressed his opinions
regarding abortion and the potential of allowing for assisted suicides, hopes
that the new management of the Black Cow discontinues Drag Queen story
hours, emphasized that residents should be allowed to sit in on meetings of
various boards, committees or advisory groups when they meet at the Black
Cow, and believes that the Statement of Inclusion does not extend to all
different groups and viewpoints

11.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
December 20, 2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.

12.

REPORTS
Trustee Nicholson advised that she attended the Fire Department’s induction
ceremony and thanked outgoing Chief John Munson for his years of service
and congratulated the officers, Chief Josuha Karpoff, Assistant Chief Chris
Columbo and 2nd Assistant Chief Chris Caterino, the Recreation Advisory
Council met and discussed possible day camp locations, the Gouveia
Working Group continues to talk about some of the proposals for the
property. Trustee Nicholson stated that she believes the flooding at our

.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 27

train station and other train stations in the County is a regional issue and
asked that we communicate with both the MTA and our State
representatives to request their assistance in resolving this problem.
Trustee Simon thanked Chief Munson for his years of services and
congratulated all of the incoming officers, on January 4th the Hudson Valley
Gateway Chamber of Commerce received a briefing from Clear Path
regarding a transmission line from Delaware County to Queens, New York,
(https://www.tdworld.com/distributed-energy-resources/article/21175876/clean-path-new-

on January 2nd the
Planning Board met and discussed signage for Metro Physical and Maple
Commons as well as reviewing the draft battery storage statute, on January
4th the Waterfront Advisory Committee met and discussed the Croton Point
Bulkhead project as well as the draft battery storage statute, on January 5th
he attended the Seniors meeting and thanked Director of Senior Recreation
Joanna Straub for a great job coordinating these programs, attended a
Webinar on an ADU (Accessory Dwelling Unit) program the State is running,
attended a Zoom meeting hosted by Congressman Mike Lawler that talked
about how smaller communities are having trouble getting transportation
and environmental funding, and directed everyone to the recent River
Journal where they gave profiles of three Croton residents.
york-transmission-project-selected-for-renewable-energy-award),

Trustee Murtaugh thanked residents from the Ackerman Court area for
bringing the gate issue to the Board’s attention and looks forward to
continuing this discussion with our Police Chief, thanked Mr. Granger for
speaking about his concerns regarding the 1 Half Moon Bay property and
stressed that communication and meetings between current property
owners and prospective property owners and the Village are very common,
most times it is just a fact finding exercise on the part of those parties, and
stressed that nothing more should be read into those discussions and
reminded everyone that the Village has the absolute right to deny any
Zoning change request, this Friday the High School will be honoring Steve
(Iggy) Aguado for his long-time support of athletics at Croton Harmon High
School.

.

Trustee Politi congratulated our new Fire Department officers and thanked
residents for coming out this evening addressing their concerns, advised
that the Diversity and Inclusion Committee will be requesting a name
change, they also talked about their involvement in the job description for a

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 28

new communications hire, mentioned a program called “Project Open Arms”
that are assisting people seeking asylum (https://www.nyc.gov/office-of-themayor/news/607-22/adams-administration-project-open-arms-comprehensive-support-plan-

directed everyone to the Croton Library website for
upcoming programs (https://www.crotonfreelibrary.org/), and advised that
the School District’s variety show is next Friday.
meet-educational),

Mayor Pugh made the following statement that was part of an article in the
Croton Chronicle: “As you may know Village Manager Healy made a report
to the Board of Trustees regarding the 1 Half Moon Bay purchase, we noted
that the new owner has met with Village officials which is a process that
often occurs when properties change hands, as explained in the Manager’s
memo, there were some uses that are permitted for that parcel as “of right”
under the existing Zoning, others such as multi-family housing would
require a Zoning amendment adopted by the Board of Trustees which as
stated is a discretionary decision on the part of the Board, in my view a tire
warehouse is not the worst use of the property but he is open to all
alternatives, any decision regarding a potential application should be made
based on the facts following an analysis and discussion of the pros and cons,
in the meantime a decision about whether such a proposal is made is in the
hands of the property owners subject to their own business judgement,
there is currently a tenant with a lease occupying the property, an
application could be filed tomorrow, within a year, or never”.
Mayor Pugh thanked outgoing Fire Chief Munson for his leadership and
welcomed new officers of both our Fire Department and Croton Ambulance
Corps. Mayor Pugh advised that he attended the Fire Council meeting where
they discussed coordinating with Metro North to reduce the amount of
emergency calls, under the State Public Authority Law, Metro North is
exempt from taxation by the Village, but we are obligated to provide
emergency services to them and making sure that we respond to calls that
are truly essential is advantage to both sides.
Village Manager Healy advised that we did have another round of flooding at
the train station, we did get the word out and Section I was largely empty
this morning, we are trying to do the best we can with the weather forecasts
that we receive, and we will continue to watch future forecasts very closely.
Village Manager Healy thanked our DPW crew who were on standby.
.

Village Board of Trustees
January 10, 2024
Page 29

There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Politi
and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 9:30pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

.

