Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, March 27, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Simon

1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23245054 through 23245255. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$396,267.37
$38,127.30
$4,722.24
$70,234.56
-

3. PUBLIC HEARING:
Public Hearing to consider the 2024-2025 Tentative Budget
A motion was made by Trustee Politi and seconded by Trustee Nicholson
to open a Public Hearing to consider the 2024-2025 Tentative Budget. The
motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker presented the 2024-25 Tentative Budget.
To view the entire Budget and presentation you may log onto the following:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/village-treasurer/pages/proposedbudget-fiscal-year-2024-2025
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/0a08a77480d390135e14da674289bab0cccbc95d.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 2

https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/home/events/76766

Village Manager Healy explained that the total appropriations over the last
four years increased by $3.1 million, total non-tax revenues increased by
$3.2 million, and we have largely been able to cover our increases in
appropriations through the use of non-tax revenues.
Village Treasurer Tucker gave a comparison of what the tax increase would
be if the Board did not use $675,000 of our Fund Balance, by not using that
amount, Tax Appropriations would be $13,923.263 which equates to a
7.99% tax increase as opposed to a 2.75% tax increase.
Trustee Simon stated that the Village’s Fund Balance is healthy and in
alignment with what is recommended by our Auditors as well as being in
accordance with our Fund Balance Policy.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that while he understands this is just a proposed
Budget and we will be meeting with all of our departments, he would like to
discuss using a little more of the Fund Balance to reduce the tax increase.
Village Manager Healy stated that it is important to have a healthy Fund
Balance, in 2021-22 the Village used $1,629,000 of the Fund Balance
because of the emergency conditions that existed at that time, and it is
important to have those funds if another situation arises.

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 3

Mayor Pugh stated that some of those funds that were returned to the Fund
Balance came from the sale of the 41-51 Maple Street property as well some
highly variable non-property tax revenue sources that came in better than
expected during the last Fiscal Year, but to think we are going to beat our
forecast on these funds consistently is not a way to build a reliable Fund
Balance, there is a portion of money that we can take from our Fund
Balance but it must be within the limits of our Fund Balance Policy.
Trustee Simon stated that while we go through the Budget process it is
possible that our appropriations will increase somewhat and believes it is a
conversation for the Board to have.
Village Treasurer Tucker gave an overview of the outstanding debt as
detailed on page 29 of the Power Point presentation which reflects the
Board’s policy to lower our debt by $791,021 by the end of Fiscal Year 2025.
Village Manager Healy stated that since 2017 our debt has gone down by
seven million dollars, and we expect that in Fiscal Year 2026, to see it drop
by another million dollars.
Mayor Pugh stated that the slight upwards in Fiscal Years 2021/22 was
related to the Covid Pandemic, where we saw a decrease in revenues and
historically low interest rates which made it harder to fund a Capital
program through the Fund Balance.
Mayor Pugh thanked all of our Village employees for their service during the
Pandemic, particularly the Teamsters for their partnership in addressing the
fiscal issues in 2020 when revenues were down dramatically, at that time
the Teamsters entered into a one year Collective Bargaining Agreement with
the Village wherein they forfeited a raise during that time and as a token of
our appreciation we established Juneteenth as a paid Village holiday which
has no direct fiscal cost to the Village, we have currently reached a multiyear Agreement with an increase in the first year of 3 percent and a 2.75
percent increase in the succeeding years which is very reasonable given the
inflationary environment.
Trustee Simon
presentation.

thanked

PUBLIC COMMENTS:

Village

Treasurer

for

a

great

Power-Point

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 4

Dan Bennett, 40 Van Wyck Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that in four out
of the last five years the Village has raised property taxes, and has
collectively increased the tax rate by 10.21 percent, the Debt Service at
$28.1 million exceeds this proposed Budget by 27.75 percent which, in his
opinion, is not sustainable and believes the Board has a spending problem
and encouraged the Board to exercise fiscal constraint.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the two
biggest power drivers in this Budget is the Pension Plan and Health Benefits
and urged the State to switch to a Defined Benefit Plan, he does not believe
there has been any savings switching our election to November, and
requested getting an assessment for the value of the State run railroad
property and what would the value be if we could tax that property.
Marilyn Grantner, 115 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, thanked the
Board for increasing the Budget for Senior Programs. Ms. Grantner stated
that Croton is unique in their support of their seniors, but she would like to
see some programs expanded, and thanked the Board for their continued
support of the Croton Caring Committee.
Janet Monahan, 116 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, Chair of the
Conservation Advisory Council advised that the CAC has grown rapidly over
the last couple of years and has taken on many more initiatives that include:
Clean, the Repair Café, the Garden Club, and the Trails Committee and
asked for the Board’s consideration for their funding requests as detailed in
their letter to the Board.
Carolyn Whiting, 7 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, Chair of the Croton
125 Committee, Police Advisory Committee, and the proposed new HEART
Committee requested the Board to increase funding for various programs as
detailed in their letter to the Board.
Christina Alvarez Arnold, Croton on Hudson, Chair of the IDEA Advisory
Committee, gave an overview of some of programs they are looking to
expand and asked the Board to support their funding requests.
Trustee Nicholson read letters from the Arts and Humanities Advisory
Council and the Lorraine Hansberry Coalition funding that would enable
them to continue to hold events in the Village.

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 5

Village Manager Healy advised that he received a letter from the Welcome
Wagon requesting $1,300 to help fund programs.
Mayor Pugh thanked all the chairs and committee members for all the work
they do as volunteers for the Village, the Board will be discussing these
requests over the course of the Budget process.
Mayor Pugh responded to a comment that the Village has a “spending
problem”, that is a question of perspective and a question of priorities, it is
very easy to be vague on spending as an undefined topic, but the Village
has priorities whether they be for public safety, sanitation or programs for
our seniors, and he believes the public supports those priorities and while it
may be easy to say spend less, the question is spend less on what, which is
a much more difficult question to answer.
Mayor Pugh stated that New York State has the second-best funded pension
system in the country. Mayor Pugh explained that New York State
periodically looks to amend the system and over the years the State has
been less generous, the Village has also expanded employee contributions to
the Health Benefits.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
4.

RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None

5.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a. Email from Brian Godleski, Croton Little League Secretary, requesting
to hold the 2024 Little League Parade on Saturday, April 6th.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee SIMON and seconded by Trustees MURTAUGH
the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request from the Croton Little League to hold the Little League Parade
on Saturday, April 6th. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
b. Letter from the Office of the State Comptroller regarding the Village of
Croton on Hudson’s Fiscal Stress Score of 2023.

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 6

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/5f32f3c3e036ddedc923d717c443e758e03100df.pdf
Village Manager Healy explained that our Fiscal Stress Score has
remained the same at 3.33 percent, which is related to our Debt
Service ratio to Revenues, and we expect to see that number
decrease. Village Manager Healy explained that, as indicated by the
State Comptroller’s Office, our Environmental Stress score increased
as a result of the decrease in our population of eighteen people
between 2017 and 2022. Village Manager Healy stated that like any
kind of survey there is a margin of error, but these are the numbers
that were provided by the New York Comptroller’s Office.
c. Compilation of energy data from municipal buildings for 2023 in
accordance with the Village’s Benchmarking Policy.
Presentation made by Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini.
To hear the entire presentation, you may log onto the following
(section 1.51.01):
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/944
To view the report, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/99532fbfcb5938dfbc576d625a712f8a00f9e3de.pdf
d. Notification from the New York Planning Federation Awards Committee
granting Ann Gallelli the Levine Community Service Award
(Posthumously).
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/71aa507dd5675a8194694da8a778d133fab66961.pdf
Trustee Simon stated that he looks forward to accepting the award on
the Village’s behalf.
e. Letter from Chris Kehoe, Director of Planning and Community
Development at the Town of Cortlandt, regarding the referral of the
draft Indian-Brook Croton Gorge Watershed Overlay Zone.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/d2e8811c13f140950bcf59a0d65d496c8af07e3e.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 7

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/21d467b5022c3294c4e7d81eb85696badb9cd735.pdf
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/54b517f6c203a8d18ee835432000ace607ef3dc3.pdf
f. Request from the Croton Rotary Club to use a portion of the CrotonHarmon Train Station parking lot on September 29, 2024, for the 40th
Annual Croton Rotary Car Show.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the
Board of Trustees approved the request from the Croton Rotary Club
to hold their annual car show on September 29, 2024, at the Croton
Harmon train Station. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
g. Email from Rob Abbot of the Croton Rotary Club requesting to install
two new trees at the Covid-19 Memorial Grove at Croton Landing Park.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/2ed3d89f4ae0a3e2963c9fee6478177ee7ed8f77.pdf
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board
of Trustees accepted the donation of two new trees from the Croton
Rotary Club. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
h. Email from Bill Thom, Interim Director of Wellness, Health, Physical
Education and Athletics at Croton Harmon School District, requesting
to hang senior banners at Firefighters Field for the 2024 season.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Politi and seconded by Trustee Simon the Board
of Trustees approved the request from Bill Thom, Interim Director of
Wellness, Health, Physical Education and Athletics at Croton Harmon
School District, to hang senior banners at Firefighters Field for the
2024 season. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 8

i. Invitation to the Town of Cortlandt’s National Vietnam War Veterans
Day ceremony, on Thursday, March 28, 2024, at 3:30pm at the
Cortlandt Town Hall Vietnam War Memorial.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/90d7dc9fbed763f00c396fe388403846d5c36f84.pdf
j. Sustainability Committee’s 2023 Annual Progress Report.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/e2c4172d1df29d214d109599d36ecd7d8313736c.pdf
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riley, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, objected to the Board
excluding all the industrial sections of Croton from the Indian Brook Gorge
regulation area which he believes are responsible for most of the pollution in
the Croton River, and suggested building a dike around part of the train
station parking lot to address flooding.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #56-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to
provide for the administration and regulation of geothermal energy systems, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on January 24, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead Agency
for SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS on March 13, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and
review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Full EAF “Determination of Significance”
attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
1 of 2024, which was opened and closed on March 13, 2024, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 9

WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the
LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on March 13, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy standards and
conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the applicability of
the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies and
conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies.
POLICY 6: Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
POLICY 6A: To expedite permit procedures, the Village shall coordinate all relevant local
laws into a development package for applicants and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development activities.
POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction
activity shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not
be adversely affected.
POLICY 11A: Erosion and sediment control measures shall be undertaken in order to
safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote
the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were
reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law to amend
Section 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to provide for the administration and regulation

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 10

of geothermal energy systems, complies with the policy standards and conditions set
forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts
the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a
Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 1 of 2024, to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to provide
for the administration and regulation of geothermal energy systems, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 6 of 2024.
Resolution 57-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees adopted Local Law 5 of 1994 to create Chapter
66, Adult Entertainment Use Businesses, on July 11, 1994, and
WHEREAS, over the past 30 years, certain definitions have changed, which require the
Code to be updated, and
WHEREAS the Village Attorney has also recommended that such regulations be placed in
Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code, rather than as a standalone chapter, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS on February 7, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead Agency
for SEQRA purpose, and
WHEREAS on March 13, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and
review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Full EAF “Determination of Significance”
attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
3 of 2024, which was opened and closed on March 13, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 11

WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the
LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on March 13, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy standards and
conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the applicability of
the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies and
conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were
reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law to repeal
Chapter 66 and amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to provide for the
administration and regulation of adult entertainment use businesses, complies with the
policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts
the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a
Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 3 of 2024, to repeal Chapter 66 and amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code to provide for the administration and regulation of adult entertainment use
businesses, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 7 of 2024.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that the original law was adopted in the 1990’s and
the Courts have ruled that some of those definitions were not Constitutional. Village
Attorney Whitehead stated that since this is a Zoning provision, it made sense to move it
into our Zoning Code where it appropriately belongs. Village Attorney Whitehead
emphasized that the Village is not promoting such businesses, but a municipality cannot

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 12

zone these uses out completely and subsequently a municipality has to allow it
somewhere in their community.
Trustee Nicholson stated that a citizen raised an issue in the local newspaper whether or
not we should be using gender references in the definition and whether or not the
mention of gender is antiquated. Trustee Nicholson asked if we strike gender out of the
Law would we have to start all over.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that comments in that article do not talk about these
activities in the context of an Adult Entertainment business, they talked about walking
down the street and walking down the street is not a use of land and is not what is being
regulated by this Code. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that we can certainly take a
look at the gender references, but we were comfortable with the changes that were
made. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that this communication should have been
directed to the Village Manager and Village Board rather than to the newspaper, which
subsequently delayed the Board’s ability to respond and review it.
Resolution #58-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village is seeking a replacement for the Fire Department’s Tower Ladder
44, which is over 20 years old and showing signs of aging, and
WHEREAS the Columbian Hook & Ladder Company appointed an apparatus committee to
develop the bid specifications for the new Tower Ladder 44, and
WHEREAS on December 28, 2023, the Village issued an invitation to bid, and
WHEREAS on January 25, 2024, one sealed bid was received and opened, and
WHEREAS after a thorough review, the bid received from Pierce Manufacturing of
Appleton, Wisconsin, has been determined to meet the Village's requirements, and
WHEREAS funding for this new ladder truck has been secured through a $250,000 grant
from Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg and $2,010,000 in assigned fund balance,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board authorizes the Village Manager
to award the contract to Pierce Manufacturing in the amount of $2,259,433.
Resolution #59-2024

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 13

On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 5–0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village owns a parcel of property located on the southwest side of Gerstein
Street in the Village, which is known as Firefighters Memorial Field (“Field”), and
WHEREAS in April 2019, the Village and the School District entered into an Intermunicipal
Agreement for the Field to allow school use in exchange for certain items, and
WHEREAS the agreement is set to expire on April 4, 2024, and is recommended to be
renewed, and
WHEREAS under the terms of the original Agreement, the School District purchased and
installed a scoreboard, wind screens, fence capping and infield tarp at the Field, which the
School District will continue to maintain under the proposed Agreement, and
WHEREAS the School District has provided additional maintenance support for the Field from
March 1st to June 30th of each year in exchange for its access to and use of the Field, which
will continue under the proposed Agreement,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the agreement on behalf of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such agreement shall come into effect upon the approval
of the Board of Education of the Croton-Harmon Union Free School District.
Resolution #60 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson recognizes the importance of promoting
renewable energy initiatives to reduce carbon emissions and combat climate change, and
WHEREAS Ecogy Community Solar, LLC of Brooklyn, New York, has proposed a
Community Solar Subscription Agreement that aligns with the Village's sustainability
goals and offers an opportunity to support clean energy production within the
community, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 14

WHEREAS Lindsay Audin, Chair of the Sustainability Committee, has recommended
participation in the program,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to enter into a Community Solar Subscription Agreement with Ecogy
Community Solar, LLC, in accordance with the terms and conditions outlined in the
proposal.
Resolution #61 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Gouveia Park Working Group has submitted its recommendations to the
Village Board regarding the layout of the Gouveia House, and
WHEREAS before work can begin on the house, essential site improvements must be
made, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is interested in pursuing grant funding for
infrastructure enhancements at Gouveia Park through the 2024 Municipal Parks Grant
Program, and
WHEREAS due to the complex and technical requirements of the grant, the Village desires
to contract with a professional grant writer to assist in the preparation of the application,
and
WHEREAS C.T. Male Associates of Latham, New York, has prepared a proposal for grant
application preparation services in the amount of $5,800,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby accepts the
proposal from C.T. Male Associates in an amount not to exceed $5,800, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this expense is available in the Gouveia Park
Endowment account T.93997.
Resolution #62 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 15

WHEREAS on March 20, 2023, the Village awarded a contract for the purchase of
screened sportswear to Empire Printing LLC of Springfield, MO in the amount of
$3,075.72, and
WHEREAS the Village intends to extend this contract for another year at the same rates,
and Empire Printing LLC has agreed to the renewal terms,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to extend the
contract with Empire Printing for the period of April 1, 2024, through March 31, 2025, in
the amount of $3,075.72.
Resolution #63 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Croton-Harmon Union-Free School District has advised the Village that its
school buildings, the customary location for the Recreation Department’s Summer Day
Camp program, will not be available this summer for use; and
WHEREAS, Holy Name of Mary Church, located at 114 Grand Street, has agreed to grant
a license for the use of their premises for the Village's Summer Day Camp program for
the period beginning July 1, 2024, through August 9, 2024, for a total payment of
$5,800; and
WHEREAS, Holy Name of Mary has provided a license agreement delineating the terms
and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute this agreement on behalf of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, subject to final
review and approval by the Village Attorney.
Resolution #64 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Croton-Harmon Union-Free School District has advised the Village that its
school buildings, the customary location for the Recreation Department’s Summer Day
Camp program, will not be available this summer for use; and

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 16

WHEREAS, St. Augustine’s Episcopal Church, located at 6 Old Post Road North, has
agreed to the use of their premises for the Village's Tiny Tots Camp program for the
period beginning July 1, 2024, through August 9, 2024, for a total payment of $2,900;
and
WHEREAS, St. Augustine’s Episcopal Church has provided a rental agreement delineating
the terms and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute this agreement on behalf of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, subject to final
review and approval by the Village Attorney.
Resolution #65 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS police services were requested for various events and functions during this
fiscal year, and
WHEREAS police officers are assigned to these events and functions to conduct traffic
control, as well as to ensure safety for residents and visitors to the Village,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to amend the
2023-2024 General Fund Budget in the amount of $53,397.62 as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A3120.1200
Police – Personnel Srvcs OT
GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A1000.3089
State Aid - Other
A3120.3089
State Aid – NYS PTS Grant
A3120.1520
Police Fees

-

$53,397.62

$5,457.35
$3,599.89
$44,340.38

Resolution #66 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 17

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has designated the Gazette as its official
newspaper for the publication of legal notices, and
WHEREAS the costs associated with legal notices published in the Gazette have exceeded
the budget allocated in the 2023-2024 General Fund budget, attributable to the
accumulation of six years' worth of legal notices being invoiced concurrently,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $1,662 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
accounts:
A8010.4000 - ZONING – CONTRACTUAL:

$1,419

A8020.4000 - PLANNING–CONTRACTUAL: $243
Resolution #67 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is undertaking the reconstruction of the
Grand Street Retaining Wall, which necessitates access to private properties adjacent to
the project site, and
WHEREAS the owners of the properties located at 33 and 25 Grand Street, CrotononHudson, NY 10520, have reviewed the documents pertaining to the project and are
willing to grant access to their property for the duration of the construction work,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Manager to sign the Access Agreement with the owners of the properties located at 33
and 25 Grand Street, as attached hereto, granting the Village and its contractor the
necessary rights and easements of use and occupancy in and to their property for the
purpose of the Grand Street Retaining Wall project.
Resolution #68 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Croton Westchester LLC, the owner of 1250 Albany Post Road, Croton-onHudson, is desirous of connecting to the sanitary sewer system, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 18

WHEREAS Croton Westchester LLC has a wastewater collection and pumping system on
said property that will connect with the Village's sanitary sewer system force main on
Albany Post Road and subsequently into the County’s Ossining Sanitary Sewer Treatment
Plant, and
WHEREAS the parties wish to set forth their agreement as to the rights and obligations of
each of the parties with respect to the wastewater collection and pumping system on said
property,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute an agreement with Croton Westchester LLC to connect the property located at
1250 Albany Post Road to the Village’s sanitary sewer system.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Sarah Boyce, Benedict Blvd. Croton on Hudson asked if Croton firefighters
have received training on how to treat fires caused by electric vehicles and
electric bikes, asked what the Village’s status is with regards to being a
Sanctuay Village and how that affects situations when someone is stopped
and they do not have a license or they are driving an unregistered vehicle,
expressed her concerns that Croton seniors only have a .03 percent chance
of getting one of the affordable apartments at the Maple Street development
and what does Light Industrial use mean in terms of an Adult Entertainment
business.
Marilyn Grantner, 115 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked if a private
home has solar panels should they be registered with the Village and does
the Village gain any benefits towards CEC points.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed some of the
biggest polluters in Croton, believes that Croton has a responsibility for
housing and feeding the 250 immigrants in our community, the IDEA
Committee’s Inclusion Statement leaves out various classifications of people
and if the Village gives them money he expects to be able to attend these
meetings, once again objected to how the January 18th Lorraine Hansberry
program was conducted at the Library, and objects to the sale of abortion
drugs.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 19

Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on March 13,
2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
March 13, 2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson stated that the IDEA Committee and the Lorraine
Hansberry Committee are two separate committees, and they have separate
mission statements and budgets.
Trustee Simon advised that tomorrow evening Maple Commons will be
holding another briefing from 6-8pm at the Croton Library. Trustee Simon
explained that because of Federal and State laws, Croton residents cannot be
guaranteed places for the thirty-three affordable apartments, but we are
hopeful that some will get through the lottery system, attended the
Westchester Municipal Officials monthly meeting where the County Planner
addressed the group, he and Trustee Murtaugh had a good meeting with our
Telecommunications Advisory Committee representatives where we explored
their recommendations, this past Sunday the Sustainability Committee met,
he and Trustee Politi met with the Croton Business community and we were
briefed on upcoming events, attended the recent Fire Council meeting where
we discussed the LOSAP program, the recent Legislative package which
contains information regarding training regulations as well as discussing the
new truck, congratulated Croton Harmon High School Freshman Aya
Nakamura on winning first place honors for her African Women’s Education
Fund Logo design, second place winner was Croton High School Senior
Mikayla Thomas, the Green Growler was highlighted in the recent River
Journal, Congratulated Dan Colombini who is the owner and occupant of the
first LEED (Leadership and Energy in Environmental Design) Platinum House
in Westchester which acknowledges that his house is creating more energy
than it is using.
Trustee Murtaugh thanked Ms. Grantner for bringing up Senior programs and
while there might not be as many of them as we had in the past, he will
certainly look into it.

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 20

Trustee Politi encouraged people to do their own research with respect to the
new abortion drug, after discussion with the Business Group, there seemed
to be a consensus to extend vending to Saturdays as well as Sundays, the
IDEA Committee stands for the inclusivity of ideas and we are open to
everyone and asked that people reach out to them to share their viewpoints,
encouraged everyone to check the calendar on our website for upcoming
events and activities, and congratulated Croton Harmon High School seniors
on becoming this year’s Valedictorian and Salutatorian.
Mayor Pugh explained that local preference with respect to housing is not
legal when they are taking government funds, according to our 2017
Comprehensive Plan approximately two thousand people work in the Village
but eighty-nine percent of those do not live in the Village and many of those
workers provide very critical jobs for the community which is why it is
important to expand our affordable housing inventory.
Village Manager Healy stated that the Fire Department has undertaken
training for electric vehicles and lithium-ion batteries, explained that when
one of our Police Officers stops a driver and they find them to be unlicensed
or driving an unregistered vehicle, that driver would be arrested regardless of
their immigration status but the arrest would not trigger any call to any
immigration authority, explained that Light Industrial is a specific Zoning
District that we have designated for Adult Entertainment uses, these areas
are all west of Route 9, i.e., the Metro North property, parcels on Croton
Point Avenue west of Route 9, the parking lot at the train station, the old
Croton North station and the warehouse at One Half Moon Bay, solar panels
are regulated by the Building Department but he does not believe any credits
come back to the Village.
Village Manager Healy extended his condolences to the Vallo family on the
passing of Jennaro Vallo, who served on the Croton Police Department for
more than 20 years retiring in 1988. Village Manager Healy also informed the
Board of the resignation of Police Officer Mark Frascello and wish him well in
his future endeavors.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Politi. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at
10:20pm.
Respectfully submitted,

Village Board of Trustees
March 27, 2024
Page 21

Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

