VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2024
PRESENT: Jim Tuman, Acting Chairperson
Daron Weber
Rocco Mastronardi
ABSENT:

Christine Wagner, Chairperson
Doug Olcott

ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer, PE

1.

CALL TO ORDER

Acting Chairperson Tuman called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting to order on Tuesday, September
24, 2024 at 7:03 pm.

Mr. Tuman stated that there were only 3 out 5 Board members present and it would take all 3 members to
vote yes to grant a requested variance therefore applicants at any point could choose to withdraw their
application and return to a meeting with a full Board.

2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Roane, Lewis, Architect & applicant for Peter & Olivia Powchik, owners -17 Georgia LaneLocated in the RA-40 1-Family Residential District and designated on the Tax Maps of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.10 Block 2 Lot 5. Request for a front yard variance
from Village Zoning Code Section 230-40(B) & 230-33(A) for a proposed detached carport in a
front yard.

PRESENT: Lewis Roane, Architect

Mr. Roane stated he was present, representing his clients, Peter and Olivia Powchik to request a variance
to allow for the construction of a carport in a front yard where the Powchiks already have 2 existing
parking spots off of their driveway. Mr. Roane stated that a portion of the carport would be visible from
the street but would be set back enough and uphill a bit to where it would not be obtrusive. Mr. Roane
1

described the design of the carport as a single sloped roof where it would be high in front and low in the
back and open on all sides. Mr. Roane referenced the provided pictures in the application, showing the
“relatively open lattice.” Mr. Roane pointed out that on page S1 in pictures #3 and #4 was a car parked in
the spot where the carport would be located. Mr. Roane stated that the setback was about 34 feet from the
street. Mr. Roane stated that they were not increasing the impervious area too much and were really
looking to work with what was existing.
The Board asked Mr. Roane what the other carport location options were. Mr. Roane stated there were
limited options because there is a pool in the backyard and an existing garage at the house therefore the
proposed carport location out front made the most sense. The Board asked the applicant if his clients
would have wanted the carport located closer to the house. Mr. Roane responded it was not a possibility
because the septic fields were in the front yard therefore it was not possible to move the carport back
closer to the house.
The Board clarified the variance was also for a structure in front of the house. Mr. Wegner, Assistant
Village Engineer explained that there were two variances being requested by Mr. Roane. Mr. Wegner
explained there was a 50’ft front yard setback and a variance needed for an accessory structure in front of
the primary structure.
With no further questions from the Board, Acting Chairperson Tuman opened the public hearing. With no
one being heard, the public hearing was closed.
The Board discussed the application and agreed that the carport had a tasteful design, was not obtrusive as
it would be an open structure and that the roofline would not bleed into the view of the house. The Board
then noted there was neighbor support and no opposition to the proposed project. The Board also agreed
that the proposed location made the most sense as it is an already paved area, and there were no other
feasible locations for the carport due to the pool and septic fields.

The Board reviewed the five factors and determined:

1.
No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

2.
The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance;

3.

The requested variance is substantial;

4.
The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district;

5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.
2

MOTION: Mr. Mastronardi made a motion to grant a front yard variance of 18’ft for a carport in a front
yard and nearer to the street than the primary structure. Seconded by Mr. Weber. The motion was carried
by a vote of 3-0. All in favor. Roll call: Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes
(Chairperson Wagner, absent; Mr. Olcott, absent).

b) Lindholm, Aron, owner-153 Grand Street-Located in the RB 2-Family Residential District
and designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.20 Block 3
Lots 12 & 13. Request for rear yard variances from Village Zoning Code Section 23040A(1)(B) for an existing detached garage.

PRESENT: Aron Lindholm, owner
Diana Kolev, attorney
Mr. Lindholm introduced himself to the Board as the property owner. Ms. Kolev then introduced herself
as Mr. Lindholm’s attorney and representative. Ms. Kolev gave a brief overview of the application stating
that they were requesting to legalize an existing, detached garage that had been on the property for over
90 years. Ms. Kolev stated that the variance request is very small on one side and that the standard
setback requirement for an accessory structure was 5’ft from a property line and that as the garage as it
exists on the South side is set 4.28’ft from the property line and on the North side the garage is 1.79’ft
from the property line. Ms. Kolev referenced the provided survey indicating that the garage is located at
the back of the property. Ms. Kolev shared that the neighbor closest to the garage provided a letter of
support as well as letters from 2 additional neighbors located on Bayview Terrace. The Board stated they
had received the letters of support from 1, 2, and 3 Bayview Terrace.
Ms. Kolev addressed the 5 Factors stating that the garage had existed in the same spot for over 90 years
and therefore would not negatively impact nearby properties. Ms. Kolev reiterated that there was
neighbor support for the garage to remain on the property. Ms. Kolev stated it would be a significant
hardship for her client to remove the shed. Ms. Kolev stated that her client was in the process of selling
his home which was how the setback issue and legalization of the garage came to their attention. Ms.
Kolev explained that no previous title searches had picked up on the issue before but it arose during the
latest title search and that the sale of the property had been delayed due to this issue. Ms. Kolev stated in
their opinion it was not a substantial request, rather the requests were for minor variances from the 5'ft
setback requirement. Ms. Kolev added that the difficulty was not self-created as the garage existed on the
property before her client’s purchasing of the property and that a permit was pulled in 1932 to construct
the garage but a certificate of occupancy was never issued and the setback issues were never addressed at
the time of construction.
The Board asked for a description/explanation of the images provided to the Board. Ms. Kolev explained
they were looking at Grand Street from an aerial view and that Mr. Lindholm’s property consisted of 2
lots and the garage was in the back of the lot that swings around. Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer,
helped to explain the location of the garage door. Ms. Kolev stated that 153 Grand Street was granted an
easement over the driveway (it is a shared driveway) and that there were no setback issues with the
3

driveway. The Board reviewed the distances of the garage to the property lines. Ms. Kolev stated that it
was close to being compliant.
The Board asked what was located at the rear of the property where the bigger variance is needed (if
Grand Street was considered the front of the property). Ms. Kolev stated it was the neighbor (a house) at
1 Bayview Terrace who provided a letter of support.
The Board asked Mr. Wegner to explain why the variance was now needed. Mr. Wegner stated that
during the building permit application process to legalize the garage it was discovered that variances
would also be required to complete the legalization process in addition to issuing a certificate of
occupancy. It was stated that Mr. Lindholm owned the property since 2008 and the garage was used to
house a car. The Board asked Mr. Wegner if he knew what the height of the garage was. Mr. Wegner
stated that he was not certain but in looking at the garage it did not look like it was 15’ft in height. Mr.
Lindholm stated that the garage had a low interior roof.
With no further questions from the Board, Acting Chairperson Tuman opened the public hearing and with
no one being heard, the public hearing was closed.
The Board discussed the application and request, noting that this application was similar to many
applications the Board receives to legalize pre-existing construction. The Board discussed and agreed
that they did not see an issue with the granting of the variances as the garage had existed on the property
for over 90 years and there was neighbor support.

The Board then reviewed the five factors and determined:

1.
No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance.

2.
The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance;

3.

The requested variance is not substantial;

4.
The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district;

5.

The difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Weber made a motion to grant a South side yard variance of 0.72’ft and a North side
yard variance of 3.21’ft for an existing detached garage. Seconded by Mr. Mastronardi. The motion was
4

carried by a vote of 3-0. All in favor. Roll call: Mr. Weber, yes, Mr. Mastronardi, yes, Mr. Tuman, yes
(Chairperson Wagner, absent, Mr. Olcott, absent).

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Due to Chairperson Wagner’s, absence, the approval of the Minutes of July 11, 2024 was postponed
to next month’s meeting,

4.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
7:30 p.m.
Respectfully Submitted By,
Stefanie Correale
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

5

