BPC Meeting – Minutes
March 21, 2024
Attendees: Matt Arnold, Adam Shapiro, Erik Ferguson, Amos Bloomberg, Matthew Schuerman
Ex-officio: Mayor Brian Pugh
1. Minutes – Feb minutes unanimously approved
2. DPW Updates – Scott Marsh unable to attend. Matt to follow-up in the coming week for updates
on the ongoing initiatives (e.g., Cleveland repaving, Gotwald Circle, access options for Croton
Commons, etc.)
3. Upper Village Intersection
● Committee revisiting the 2019 Traffic Study
● Concept Plan 4 (pgs 19-20 of the report):
● Consultants identified plan 4 as the preferred option (noted in page 13)
● Plan calls for 4-way stop (stop signs) with blinking red “dummy light” and other
improvements
● General consensus remains in favor of Concept Plan 4 – as an incremental set of
improvements – with the following additional design considerations:
● Curb extensions (physical or painted) – as a traffic calming measure and
shortening crosswalks
● Crosswalk painting and sign/indicators
● Future consideration for raised crosswalks and/or raised,
textured/painted intersection [following proposed raised sidewalk
pilot]
● Modification of school bus routes to avoid intersection/area [check, may
have already been modified]
● Next Steps:
● Revise 2019 memo with latest recommendations [Matt & Matthew]
● Submit memo to Mayor and Village Manager for consideration and inclusion in an
upcoming Board working session
4. Earth Day
● Modest presence proposed (vs. bike safety or repair clinic) given resources/availability of
members
● Propose to have shared presence with Pedago
● Action: Matt to sync w/ Riley
Updates from DPW (Scott Marsh) – 3/26/24:
●

●

Gotwald/Cleveland:
● Surveyor currently on-site measuring for granite curbing. Work to begin in next few
weeks.
● Catch basin repairs underway along Cleveland in advance of repaving preparations
Croton Commons
● Property management had explored adding sidewalk, stairs, etc. along Maple earlier, but
faced challenges with the State, which owns property along Maple
● Management is looking to install new bike rack(s)

