WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Tuesday, January 22nd, 2024 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT Len Simon, Chairperson lV] AP P ROVED

Stuart Greenbaum
Steve Krisky

lan W. Murtaugh
Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Mr. Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
1) CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Simon called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of January 22, 2024 to order at 4:36
p.m.

2) REFERRALS

a) Referral from the Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP) Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 22 of 2023.

The WAC members reviewed a memo from the Village Board requesting a recommendation of
consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) for the referral listed above.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policies as noted in the memo
attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of
consistency.

MOTION: Steve Krisky made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Stuart
Greenbaum, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5 -0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Leo Wiegman made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of January 3rd, 2024, as
amended, seconded by Stuart Greenbaum, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0 with Steve Krisky
abstaining as he was absent for the January 3% meeting.

4. ADJOURNMENT:

There being no further business, Stuart Greenbaum made a motion for adjournment, seconded by lan
Murtaugh, and the meeting adjourned at 4:47 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

***Minutes approved, as amended, January 31, 2024 by a vote of 5 -0***

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


Chairman
LEN SIMON

Members
STUART GREENBAUM
STEVE KRISKY

Croton-on-Hudson IAN W. MURTAUGH
LEO WEIGMAN

Village of

Attorney

Waterfront Advisory Committee LINDA WHITEHEAD

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building Village Engineer
One Van Wyck Street DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.

Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501 Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO: Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees
FROM: Chairman Simon, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE: Referral from Village Board for a Loca! Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 22 of 2023.

DATE: January 23rd, 2024

On January 22nd, 2024, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency
with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above.
Based on the Committee’s review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee
made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were
no changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies are
relevant:

POLICY 1A: Existing planning and zoning documents should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure development within the community is consistent with
adopted goals and policies.

The proposed law provides specific requirements for battery energy storage systems (BESS)
which will clarify requirements for this type of technology.

POLICY 6A: To expedite permit procedures, the Village shall coordinate all relevant local
laws into a development package for applicants and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development activities.

The proposed law clarifies requirements for BESS and will be available online after adoption.

POLICY 25: Protect, restore or enhance natural and man-made resources which are not
identified as being of statewide significance, but which contribute to the overall scenic
quality of the coastal area.

The proposed law has requirements for screening, landscaping, setbacks, fire safety, erosion
and sediment control, and an emergency operations plan which will ensure protection of the
environment and scenic quality of the coastal area.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


POLICY 37B: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be exerted
in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new construction.

The proposed law has requirements for screening, landscaping, setbacks, fire safety, erosion
and sediment control, and an emergency operations plan which will ensure protection of the
environment and scenic quality of the coastal area.

POLICY 39: The transport, storage, treatment and disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas will be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water supplies, significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreation areas, important agricultural lands and scenic resources.

A decommissioning plan is required and will address the disposal of solid wastes and any
hazardous wastes.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790
