Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, August 21, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
Prior to the regular meeting, a motion to enter into an Executive Session to discuss the
employment history of a particular individual was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Politi
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

The following official was absent:
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini
1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:01pm and led everyone in the pledge
of allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 24250745-24251032. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

174,914.47
19,207.53
1,398.39
$201,142.98
$5,800.00

3. Overview of AKRF’s memo dated August 19, 2024, on the proposed 1 Croton Point
Avenue development by Aaron Werner from AKRF. To view the memo, you may
log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202408/e79970d90dece95fafddc61b1c872449e3bcf945.pdf
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that two years ago the Village Board adopted
Zoning amendments which allows for a TOD (Transit Oriented Development) of
multi-family units in the LI (Light Industrial) District provided that it is within a
certain distance from the train station, as well as some dimensional requirements
which were put into the Code for this specific use. Village Attorney Whitehead

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 2

advised that the applicant has submitted a Special Permit application to the Village
Board, the Village Board, as per the procedures set forth in the Village Code, has
referred it to the Planning Board, and after their review, will be reporting back to
the Village Board. Village Attorney Whitehead stated that in addition to the Special
Permit review, the application will undergo a review under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act (SEQRA), the Village has declared their intent to be Lead
Agency for that review, the notice was also forwarded to the Westchester County
Planning Board, the New York State Department of Transportation, the New York
State Department of Environmental Conservation as well as a number of other
agencies, if there are no objections, then the Board can proceed as the Lead
Agency for that review. Village Attorney Whitehead advised that the application
will also go before the Waterfront Advisory Committee for their review and
recommendation with consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program (LWRP), and at the applicant’s expense, the Village has hired AKRF as
their technical consultants to assist the Board in the review process.
Trustee Simon stated that the Board has requested more information with respect
to traffic, view-shed renderings, school analysis, public amenities, noise,
environmental issues, as well as fiscal and economic impacts.
Trustee Nicholson stated that since we do not know the status of these units we
should get a fiscal analysis of the different scenarios from a tax revenue
perspective that includes costs, if any, for additional emergency services. Trustee
Nicholson stated that the idling rules for Metro North are different in the winter and
encouraged them to do a study in the winter as opposed to the summer especially
when they are choosing materials for the project.
Mayor Pugh stated that he appreciates AKRF’s hypo-local study with respect to
school children and not just relying on the Rutgers data, and since Maple
Commons will begin to be occupied by the end of the month, we should also look
at the number of school children generated from that development.
Trustee Politi stated that it would also be interesting to see the number of school
children generated from the Bari Manor and Grand Street Apartments.
Mayor Pugh stated that we need to also take into consideration that any additional
students could be incrementally distributed across the District’s three schools and
asked for that data as well. Mayor Pugh indicated that school data will change
depending on whether or not a commercial component is included in this
development. Mayor Pugh also stated that a Balloon Test would be helpful and
asked that this be arranged.

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 3

Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the noise issue is not as much an
environmental impact since it is not an impact on the community, but rather what
the developer needs to do for their future residents.
A motion to amend the Rules of Procedure to allow Mr. Bainlardi to address the
Board was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
John Bainlardi of WBP Development stated that a Storm Water Pollution Plan was
submitted to the Village Engineer which was reviewed and amended based on the
Engineer’s comments, a Geotechnical investigation was conducted, they did not hit
any rock to a depth of 50 feet, nor water to a depth of 35 feet, they conducted a
Phase I and Phase II Environmental Assessment for both the Village parcel and the
adjoining parcel, the Phase II Environment Assessment concluded that there were
no soil exceedances, they performed a noise study, that study was conducted over
72 hours, and they concluded that with proper windows and exterior construction
materials, interior sound levels could be brought down to the standards that are
required by code. Mr. Bainlardi advised that they are prepared to do an additional
traffic study, an analysis is being done with respect to the circulation of vehicles,
and they are also preparing an enrollment analysis and a fiscal impact study and
will have those available at the time of the Public Hearing.
Trustee Murtaugh recommended using the Fire Department’s ladder truck as part
of the elevation study and encouraged WBP to perform a balloon test to satisfy the
concerns of residents. Trustee Murtaugh asked if WBP has had any luck with the
New York State Department of Transportation coordinating with them to adjust
traffic signal timing.
Mr. Bainlardi stated that they have been able to work with the NYSDOT.
4. RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL – None
5. CORRESPONDENCE
a. Letter from Karen Kuchnicki requesting the removal of the property at 36
Lounsbury Road from the Ossining Sanitary Sewer District.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202408/f0e9df5a56e9cf9abebb685b74fe7e1d5d3c648d.pdf
Based on the support of the Board, Village Manager Healy will prepare a
resolution formalizing the Board’s support.

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 4

b. Letter from Mike Grayeb, Director of the Harry Chapin Memorial Run Against
Hunger regarding plans for the 2024 race.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202408/a1f170f4476c91c42913eaf475164655a46a0152.pdf
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board of
Trustees approved foregoing fees for the Harry Chapin Memorial Run Against
Hunger. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Tony Granger, 217 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, presented the Board
with a Petition with 1,086 signatures from residents of “CROTON FOR
RESPONSIBLE GROWTH” demanding the Board to put a pause on all new largescale developments. Mr. Granger stated that before the Board moves on any new
development we need to see the effects on our Village from Maple Commons, 25
S. Riverside Avenue, 1380 Albany Post Road and 352 S. Riverside. Mr. Granger
stated that he is concerned that we are pushing our volunteer Boards to the limits
and asked the Board to turn these developments down, let them continue to do
their homework and come back to the Village when the dust settles.
Peter Marengo, 37 Irving Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the group could
have gotten many more signatures.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, thanked the resident leaders on
their hard work in getting these signatures. Mr. Riely stated that he believes that
the Board is moving on these developments not to benefit the Village but rather
for the benefit of a Federal idea or more closely a State idea and asked that the
Board look to protect the citizens of Croton first. Mr. Riely asked that a Moratorium
be put on all large-scale projects, repeal and amend the Master Plan, conduct a
Referendum to move Village elections back to March, pass a referendum forbidding
the sale of Village property without a referendum of the people, repeal all Zoning
that allows five story buildings, and reform our Ethics law.
Ken Walsh, 26 Palmer Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked for a one-year Moratorium
on development on the LOT A and 1 Half Moon Bay properties.
John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that the LOT A property
was pitched as a condominium but now it appears that it could be rental, and

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 5

believes that brings a different perspective with respect to school enrollment. Mr.
McKeon explained that the RFP (Request for Proposal) involved a request for 20%
affordable housing, but at the Planning Board meeting it was presented as 100%
affordable but if the RFP is a specific document specifying what all parties must
meet in order to be an acceptable bidder, they must adhere to the RFP.
Mr.
McKeon also expressed his concerns regarding the ability of a 6” water main to
accommodate a high rise building and is concerned for our fire fighters, he also
believes the structure is going to require water towers on the roof of the building
and that the storm water drains on the property also need to be addressed.
Ethan Lewis, 38, Glengary Road, Croton on Hudson, spoke in favor of a thorough
investigation into the merits of 1 Croton Point Avenue and supports affordable
home ownership and encouraged this development to be condominiums rather
than rental apartments. This is an underused parking lot , with an adjacent office
building that faces another building which is just as high and much more
significant in volume then the one being proposed, he believes that residents who
need additional parking can certainly rent a space at the train station parking lot,
the traffic light that already exists is fully functional and should meet the
requirements to mitigate traffic, the environmental fears may come from a good
place but are thus far unsubstantiated, while the Village height restrictions have
merit, it is essential to consider viewsheds. Mr. Lewis addressed the many housing
developments over the years in Croton where these new residents are now
cherished community members and asked that we let facts not fears guide us.
Gordon Baptiste, 405 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
attended the Planning Board meeting where the developer cited their success in
Tarrytown, New Rochelle, Peekskill and White Plains, Croton is a small Village and
we want to keep it a small Village yet there seems to be two visions, one of the
developer’s and one of the citizens of Croton.
Maria McGuire, 1 Wayne Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she moved to
Croton because it is a small, safe Village and she is concerned that this
development will increase traffic in the area. Ms. McGuire stated that she is also
concerned about losing her seasonal views and does not want Croton to look like a
big city.
Susan Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that we are a small
Village community and asked the Board to represent the community, these
projects are not to be viewed in isolation, they are cumulative projects and need to

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 6

be scrutinized and we need to know that resident’s needs are being met, and
asked for a pause on development.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, questioned whether the
FAR line of site includes HVAC and utilities that are permitted on the roof,
additionally there is another 3 feet of parapet that extends above that and would
like to see if that has been included in that line of site diagram, as well as the
possible water towers mentioned earlier. Mr. Eisinger stated that he hears the
diesel trains at night and throughout the early morning hours, it is particularly
worse in the winter and is concerned that these units will be very affordable
because no one will want to live under the triple threat of noise pollution, light
pollution and carbon emissions coming from all directions.
Gregory Maher, 44 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the Board to
move forward on an all-affordable home ownership project, an affordable home
ownership project would be a game changer for many people and encouraged the
developer to pursue the funding for such a project. Mr. Maher stated that he also
believes that this development will help our small businesses and while he is
concerned about air pollution generated by the Metro North diesel engines, he
looks forward to seeing that report.
Alex Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked when the Board will be
addressing the Planning Board’s recommendations.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Board has not received the official memo
from the Planning Board, and we expect to discuss it at the Public Hearing.
Cathy Connolly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is not only
opposed to this development but is extremely upset that her neighbor will be
building an over 500-foot cottage on a postage stamp yard, when she expressed
her concerns to the Planning Board, she was told that the Planning Board had
recommended to the Village Board that ADU’s should not be allowed in Harmon, it
seems like the Board does not care what happens and emphasized that the Village
Board should listen to what their other Boards have to say. Ms. Connolly asked
that the Board wait at least five years before approving any new projects.
Erica Laudon, 124 Penfield Avenue, Croton on Hudson, believes that we have far
exceeded the Governor’s housing requirements for our community, and it is
imperative that the developer conduct an entirely new traffic study during the peak
weekday traffic which is now Tuesday through Thursday.

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 7

Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, questioned the accuracy of
the number of school children, parking spaces, environmental impacts and whether
the sanitary sewer will be sufficient and asked that the Board follow all of the
established Village codes.
Brian Cook, 52 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the report that was
issued is not detailed enough, a lot of assumptions in the models was not clearly
outlined, the report talked about a noise pollution test over three days, but didn’t
indicate what three days because Friday, Saturday and Sunday would get different
results from a Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, citing a Rutgers Study does not
really help because we do not know the inputs that were put into the model. Mr.
Cook stated that the Board should take the signatures on the Petition very
seriously and be very detailed of what they are proposing so that the community
understands the impacts.
David Bogdam, 50 Irving Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned
about the increase in population, and while some of these recent developments are
being sold as a place for empty nesters, not one person from Croton is moving into
Maple Commons and emphasized the importance of new studies for school
enrollment and traffic as well as looking at the impacts on density in certain areas
in Croton.
Elisa Berger, 23 Lower North Highland Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that at nine
o’clock in the morning it is impossible to get to the train station and she is
concerned that we will be introducing an additional 100 cars into that area, as well
as the potential of adding 154 children into our schools, and is also concerned
about flooding in that area.
Lynn Harmonay, 114 Half Moon Bay Drive, Croton on Hudson, reminded the Board
that Half Moon Bay is the immediate neighbor to both of the proposed
developments and believes that Half Moon Bay will be adversely impacted in terms
of traffic and infrastructure. Ms. Harmonay attested to the flooding issues, the
storm drains at Half Moon Bay were overwhelmed during the last rain event, and
she believes a full-time fire department will be needed to protect all of Croton.
Petra Vatne, 217 Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, stated that if we are adding
housing, why not make it look pretty, three-story light-colored exteriors, gardens,
and an area for the children.
WRITTEN COMMENTS

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 8

Email from Richard Olver, 42 Whelan Avenue, Croton on Hudson, dated August 30,
2024, states that the Board has worked carefully over the past fifteen years to
create more opportunities for affordable housing and nothing bad has happened to
Croton. Mr. Olver believes the development at LOT A is an ideal step for Croton.
Email from Daniel Tibbetts, 37A Wells Avenue, Croton on Hudson, dated August
21, 2024, encourages the Board to move forward with these projects with all the
required speed and deliberation, he believes such developments will help our small
businesses who are in desperate need for more customers, he believes the
concerns are overblown and the only way out of the housing shortage is to build
new housing.
Email from Selcuk Eren, 56 Morningside Drive, Croton on Hudson, dated August
20, 2024, offering his full support for the Board’s housing initiatives for both
projects, there is a housing-crises in New York and applauds the current leadership
for recognizing this and taking advantage of State funding for these types of
projects.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the Board
approved amending the Rules of Procedure to allow representatives from AKRF and
WPB to speak. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Trustee Nicholson stated that she does not think this is really the forum, the public
has a lot of very specific questions as does the Board, AKRF will not have all the
answers needed not the appropriate answers they are asking for tonight and she
would prefer that we have full answers to all the questions raised this evening.
Mayor Pugh stated that he understands this is a slight deviation from our normal
practice, but the Rules of Procedure also say that information should be presented
in a timely manner, if it is not immediately available then made available and more
substantive responses will be bound together and presented in a comprehensive
manner to the public.
Mr. Bainlardi from WBP stated that he understands that some people are cynical of
the information we have provided, but these reports were done by licensed
professionals who have been doing this for a long time, there are standards in the
industry that are widely recognized and asked that the community give some
credibility to the work that has been done.
Resolution:

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 9

On motion by Trustee Nicholson and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the Mayor
asked for a five minutes recess. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #164 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village’s Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Department provides basic life
support (BLS) ambulance service, but does not offer advanced life support ambulance
service (ALS), and
WHEREAS the Ossining Volunteer Ambulance Corps (OVAC) has been providing ALS
service to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson since 1996, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, the Village of Briarcliff Manor, and OVAC
have entered into an agreement to form a Tri-Community FLYCAR system operating as
OVAC ALSFR (Advanced Life Support First Response) dated May 2020, and
WHEREAS the Villages of Briarcliff Manor and Croton-on-Hudson and OVAC have agreed
to continue the ALS/BLS bundle billing for the duration of the May 2020 agreement,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Board of Trustees hereby approves the FLYCAR
Agreement Addendum and authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Agreement
Addendum.
Resolution #165 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton Business Council is desirous of holding an "Oktoberfest" festival on
Grand Street between Old Post Road S. and Mt. Airy Road on September 28, 2024, with a
rain date of October 5, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has provided the Croton Business Council with
a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that delineates the respective rights and
obligations of the parties and defines their relationship for the “Oktoberfest” event,

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 10

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to execute the Memorandum of Understanding with the Croton
Business Council related to the “Oktoberfest” event.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202408/a5c18314a8f64cf6535602747dcabfd2037ee533.pdf
DISCUSSION:
Toni Senecal, of the Croton Business Council, stated that many of our businesses are
struggling and it is getting harder and harder for some of the businesses to pitch in. Ms.
Senecal stated that we are looking at getting more local sponsorship and they are asking
for some contribution from the Village to support the local businesses.
The Mayor and Board agreed to discuss the monetary contribution further in an upcoming
work session.
Resolution #166 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the current Vehicle Use Policy has been reviewed and requires updates to
reflect changes in best practices, technology, and Village operations, and
WHEREAS it is in the best interest of the Village to formally adopt the updated Vehicle
Use Policy to provide clear guidance and expectations to all Village employees regarding
the use of Village-owned vehicles,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby adopts the updated Vehicle Use Policy effective immediately,
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the change specific to the Fire Inspector/Code
Enforcement Officer position shall not take effect until October 1, 2024, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
distribute the updated Vehicle Use Policy to all relevant Village employees.
Resolution #167 of 2024

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 11

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson requires stenographic services for the Village
Justice Court, and
WHEREAS S.A.C-D Steno Services has provided notification of its cancellation from the
current contract, and
WHEREAS Bridget Abatecola has been identified as a qualified candidate to provide the
necessary stenographic services and has provided a schedule of rates,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to enter into a
contract with Bridget Abatecola for stenographic work in the Village Justice Court for the
period of September 1, 2024, through May 31, 2025, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for such service is available in the following
account: A1110.4000 (Justice Court – Contractual).
Resolution #168 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application from
Sprocket Power of Bedford Hills, New York, proposing the installation of an integrated
energy system at Croton Auto Park, located at 1 Municipal Place, comprising a battery
energy storage system with a 280 kWh output, and
WHEREAS on July 17, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees referred the special permit
application to the Planning Board for a recommendation, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board has provided the Board of Trustees with a memorandum in
support of the application,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing for September 11, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider the special permit
application for the installation of an integrated energy system at Croton Auto Park, 1
Municipal Place.

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 12

Resolution #169 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a special permit application from
WBP Development LLC for a multi-residential building on the parcel located at 1 Croton
Point Avenue, and
WHEREAS on July 17, 2024, the Village Board declared its intent to be the Lead Agency
for SEQRA purposes in connection with the Proposed Action and directed Village staff to
circulate its intent to all interested and involved agencies, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received comments back from the Village Planning Board
and New York State Dept. of Transportation stating that they have no objection to the
Village Board of Trustees serving as Lead Agency, and
WHEREAS the 30-day window to send comments regarding the Village’s intent to serve
as lead agency has now passed, and
WHEREAS on July 17, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees referred the special permit
application to the Planning Board for a recommendation,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby declares
itself Lead Agency for SEQRA purposes in connection with the Proposed Action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby refers the special permit
application and associated documents to the Waterfront Advisory Committee for review
and recommendation in accordance with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a Public
Hearing for September 18, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of
the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider the special permit application
from WBP Development LLC for the construction of a multi-residential building at 1
Croton Point Avenue.
Resolution #170 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 13

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has reviewed its existing flood insurance
policies to ensure the coverage being provided is adequate, and
WHEREAS the coverage in effect for certain buildings at the Village well fields needed to
be increased, and
WHEREAS these changes incurred an additional flood insurance premium expense in the
amount of $2,003, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2024-2025 Water Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $2,003 from Water Fund Contingency Account F1990.4000 to the
following account: F1910.4000 - Insurance Contractual: $2,003
Resolution #171 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS in 2021, the Croton EMS facility located at 44 Wayne Street was found to
contain mold and was deemed no longer suitable for operation, and
WHEREAS in August 2022, the Village contracted with Sullivan Architecture, P.C. to
develop conceptual drawings for an updated EMS facility, with the conclusion that an
addition to the Harmon Firehouse would be the most viable solution, and
WHEREAS the Department of Public Works will undertake as much of the construction
work as feasible with Village staff, while outside contractors will be employed for tasks
beyond the scope or capacity of DPW, and
WHEREAS the initial phase requiring contractor assistance involves foundation and
masonry work, including footings, foundation walls, first and second floor slabs, and
exterior brick work, and
WHEREAS on July 22, 2024, the Village issued an invitation to bid for the Harmon
Firehouse Addition – Foundation/Masonry Work (Bid # 04-2024), and
WHEREAS two bids were received and publicly opened on August 6, 2024, and

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 14

WHEREAS Superintendent of Public Works Frank Balbi recommends the approval of
Construction Plus Services, LLC, of Valhalla, New York, the lowest responsible bid, as the
contractor for this phase of the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to award Bid No. 4-2024 for foundation and masonry work at the
Harmon Firehouse to Construction Plus Services, LLC, in the amount of $111,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this project is available in the existing capital
account H4540.2102.23445.
Resolution #172 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Croton Enterprises LLC is the owner of the property known as 440-460 South
Riverside Avenue, Croton-on-Hudson, NY, identified on the Tax Assessment Map as
Section 79.17, Block 2, Lot 2 (the “Property”), and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson granted special permit and site plan approvals
in 2016 for improvements to the Property, including ShopRite supermarket as the
primary tenant, and
WHEREAS as a condition of the site plan approval, the Village Planning Board required
that Croton Enterprises LLC and the Village enter into a parking lot maintenance
agreement to ensure the proper upkeep of the parking lot and the maintenance and
health of the landscape trees on the Property, and
WHEREAS the Village and Croton Enterprises LLC have negotiated a maintenance
agreement that sets forth the responsibilities of the Owner with respect to the
maintenance of the parking lot and the Property, providing the Village with additional
tools to ensure the parking lot is maintained in good condition,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to sign the Parking Lot Maintenance Agreement with Croton
Enterprises LLC, as required by the site plan approval granted in 2016, to ensure the
ongoing maintenance and proper upkeep of the parking lot and landscaping on the
Property.
Resolution #173 of 2024

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 15

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New York with a
5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received an application from ShopRite
Supermarkets, Inc. for a renewal of its Special Permit to operate a retail store at 460
South Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS on January 10, 2024, the Village Board referred the renewal application to the
Village Planning Board in accordance with Village law, and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a favorable recommendation from the Planning
Board, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing on the renewal of the special permit on
January 24, 2024, and
WHEREAS the property maintenance agreement required by the Planning Board in the
2016 site plan approval has been agreed upon,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby renews the
special permit for ShopRite Supermarkets, Inc. to operate a retail store at 460 South
Riverside Avenue subject to the following conditions:
a. That the property maintenance agreement approved by the Village Board shall be
executed by the property owner within 20 days of this permit renewal.
b. That this special permit is issued for a period of eight years, commencing on April
4, 2021, and ending on April 4, 2029. Application for renewal of the special permit
shall be made no later than three months prior to the expiration date.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead asked if the Board wanted to consider giving them permanent
status.
Trustee Simon stated that it has been a struggle to get the Maintenance Agreement and
would like to make sure it is properly implemented before we give Shoprite permanent
status.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the Maintenance Agreement is a little tricky
because that agreement is with the property owner not Shoprite.

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 16

Trustee Nicholson stated that the Special Permit was our only leverage.
After further discussion, the Board agreed to issue the Special Permit to April 4, 2029.
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked that the sound
system be fixed, asked the Board to consider a Residential Parking Permit System
in his neighborhood, his corner on Young and Benedict is very dangerous due to
the commercial parking on that corner and the pedestrian crosswalk putting bikes
and walkers in danger trying to attempt to cross the street. Mr. Mamone also
addressed Jacoby Street and 129 as a problem and asked that dog laws be
enforced.
Brian Cook, 52 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that Mr. Bainlardi asked
for us to trust the experts, but everyone knows that there are two experts in any
litigation that are working off the same standards, some of the analysis presented
is based on stale data and using commuting data from 2020 is absurd because
ridership has been increasing since 2020.
Gary Eisenger, 210 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he would like
to see the same checks and balances that were used with respect to the battery
storage issue used on these developments and for the Board to continue to work
and cooperate with this large group here tonight as well as those who have signed
the Petition. Mr. Eisenger stated that the line-of-sightdiagram in AKRF’s memo is
deceptive because it does not include utilities and the parapet.
Susan Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that AKRF’s memo
depicting the line of sight is an example of creating a feeling of deception and why
we need to scrutinize all documents. Ms. Skrelja stated that she objects to the
statement that the Board is promoting this as opportunities for Croton residents
who want to downsize or for young adults who are looking to return to Croton
because making it 100% affordable, is not creating accessibility or inclusivity for
everyone in Croton.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that we are not opposed
to housing in Croton, we are opposed to four and five story housing, we would like
to see beautiful places built with an opportunity to own. Mr. Riely stated that the
selection process at Maple Commons should be transparent and be done in public.
Mr. Riely stated that the Planning Board expressed their concerns regarding the
traffic study and believes a new traffic study is necessary, the current number of

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 17

parking spaces is not realistic, and a better fiscal analysis should be done on this
project.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the final recommendations from the
Planning Board have not yet been received and a number of those issues
mentioned this evening will be done.
9. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on July 24,
2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on July 24, 2024, was
made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Special Meeting held on August 9, 2024, was
made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and approved
with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on August 9, 2024,
was made by Trustee Politi. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
10. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson commended the Recreation Department for putting together
outstanding recreational programs this summer; the Police Advisory Committee
and the Police Department hosted their first annual “night out”. Trustee Nicholson
stated that she wished we did not have two large projects to look at because it is
not giving us the time we need to focus on LOT A and believes that the 1 Half
Moon Bay project is a distraction for us to get a really good well thought out
project for LOT A.
Trustee Simon advised that Westchester Power held an informational meeting
Monday evening at the Croton Library where they went over the new rates, the
rates are not as low as we would have liked, but the good news is that it is a
thirteen month contract, he attended the Planning Board meeting last night where
they addressed an ADU application on Hastings Avenue, Shoprite, the LOT A
referral and the Reservation of Parkland, announced that Croton Rotary will be

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 18

holding their annual car show on September 29th, and thanked the residents for
their comments this evening and looks forward to continuing this discussion.
Trustee Murtaugh thanked all the speakers, he heard many valuable comments, ,
there are no final decisions, and he is certain that there will be changes and wants
to see a rigorous analysis as we move forward with this review.
Trustee Politi stated that it is important to understand that all of our views with
respect to these projects are not universal and hopes that we can continue to
have these conversations in good faith, she reminded everyone that nothing has
been set in stone, she understands everyone’s concerns about losing views, and
we will be working with the developer, but believes that the LOT A project is a
positive project.
Mayor Pugh stated that a lot has been said, and while he would like to respond to
all the comments, it would mean an additional four-hour meeting and he
respectfully, declined to do so. Mayor Pugh did address the comment regarding
local preference and while the Board would love to be able to have local
preference, the court and Federal policy makers do not feel that way and
encouraged everyone to review the Frequently Asked Questions that have been
published on the Village’s website. Mayor Pugh stated that if no affordable
housing is built, there would be no chance for people to find homes here and
emphasized that a majority of our housing over the last few years has been
market rate. Mayor Pugh stated that we hired AKRF because they are
professionals in this field, they are an award-winning firm with a good reputation
and they would not put their reputation on the line and we expect that they will
do their best, we are in the process of getting the facts, using new data and looks
forward to discussing this at our next meeting.
Village Manager Healy referred to the Traffic Study on page 5 of the AKRF memo
wherein they clearly indicate that they have requested the developer to do a new
traffic study since trends have changed since 2022, we have sold 600 less parking
permits since 2019, which is 600 less cars on a daily basis going down to the train
station, we have also asked for an updated design that includes equipment and
parapets, the Village does not know at this time who will be moving into Maple
Commons, and while we are making inquiries on a regular basis, we do not have
that information and emphasized that the selection process was public and was
publicly viewed by more than 500 people who watched the process.
Trustee Simon clarified that the lottery for these apartments was run by the
Westchester County Housing Council not our local Croton Housing Network.

Village Board of Trustees
August 21, 2024
Page 19

Trustee Murtaugh asked Village Manager Healy to address a comment regarding
the water line on Croton Point Avenue where we are trying to extend the larger
pipe down from Wayne and have been in discussions with the property owner.
Village Manager Healy stated that we are continuing discussions with the property
owner who owns the building at the end of Wayne Street for an easement, in the
past the property owner has expressed a willingness to permit an easement to
allow the water line to be connected and we are going to connect the developer
and the property owner so they can have those discussions.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that there were statements made this evening
that made it sound like the project could be approved and the infrastructure
would not be insufficient, Village Attorney Whitehead emphasized that the project
could not be approved until the infrastructure is studied and if upgrades were
found to be necessary, they would be done at the expense of the developer and
that was made very clear in the RFP.
Village Manager Healy advised that the agendas are sent out on Monday
afternoon, they are posted on the website as well as Social Media, we also have
the project page on the website under “Projects and Initiatives” and the same
documents that are on the agenda are posted there as well.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close the
meeting and enter into an Executive Session regarding a matter of Public Safety
was made by Trustee Nicholson. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon and
approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 11:25pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk


