Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, April 10, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Simon

1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23245256 through 23245493. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$127,957.66
$20,984.56
$7,582.69
$29,991.19
-

3. PUBLIC HEARING:
Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2024,
amending Chapters 108 and 168 of the Village Code to permit
leashed dogs in Gouveia Park
A motion was made by Trustee Politi and seconded by Trustee Nicholson
to open a Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2024,
amending Chapters 108 and 168 of the Village Code to permit leashed dogs
in Gouveia Park. The motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202403/ad82638c9f67e1401b33b3d603b3ed2141d7f6b1.pdf
Stuart Greenbaum, 48 Mount Airy Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
supports the proposed Local Law allowing leashed dogs in Gouveia Park and
also encouraged the Board to look at the signage at Croton Landing with
respect to the rules and regulations for walking dogs on the path.

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 2

Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, supports allowing dogs in
Gouveia Park which he believes will increase the utilization of the Park.
Sherry Horowitz, 119 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that because
there are no pathways and the only place to walk a dog would be on the
lawn she does not support this Local Law. Trustee Horowitz stated that you
can pick up poop, but you cannot pick up urine and with families coming
with blankets and wanting to put them on the lawn, this could be an issue.
Ms. Horowitz said that Croton is very dog friendly, we already allow dogs at
Croton Landing, Black Rock Park, and our trails and does not think we
should allow dogs at Gouveia Park.
Written Comment:
Email from Hallie and Cliff Clarke, 28 Quaker Bridge Road, Croton on
Hudson, supporting the Recreation Advisory Council’s recommendation to
permit leashed dogs at Gouveia Park.
Email from Charles Karp and Deborah Cohen, 20 Quaker Bridge Road,
Croton on Hudson stated that they think the RAC's recommendation to
permit leashed dogs at Gouveia Park is a good idea. Dogs and their owners
would undoubtedly welcome another space where they could play and
exercise. Providing disposable waste bags would help keep the park clean
and sanitary.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #69-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS in accordance with the recommendation put forth by the Recreation Advisory
Committee, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 108, Dogs, and
168, Parks and Recreation Areas, of the Village Code to permit leashed dogs in Gouveia
Park, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 3

WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
6 of 2024, which was opened and closed on April 10, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2024, to amend Chapters 108 and 168 of the Village
Code to permit leashed dogs in Gouveia Park, which upon adoption becomes Local Law
No. 8 of 2024.
DISCUSISON:
Trustee Murtaugh stated that Sherry Horowitz’s comments are well taken and suggested
posting a sign at Gouveia that this is a picnic area.
Trustee Politi stated that there are trails that exist on the property and maybe we can
consider that as the area to walk dogs.
Trustee Simon stated that he is inclined to move forward with the resolution and then we
can address some of these concerns with the Recreation Department and the Recreation
Advisory Committee.
4.

RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none.

5.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a. Request from Marie Roche, Associate Director of Education Programs at
Teatown, requesting to hold a Trout Release school program at Silver
Lake on May 2nd and May 8th.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee SIMON and seconded by Trustees POLITI the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson approved the
request from Marie Roche, Associate Director of Education Programs at
Teatown, requesting to hold a Trout Release school program at Silver
Lake on May 2nd and May 8th. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.

6. PRESENTATION FROM COUNTY EXECUTIVE GEORGE LATIMER AND DEPUTY
COUNTY EXECUTIVE KEN JENKINS
To hear the entire presentation, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/948 (section 00.58.45)
Following the presentation the following comments were made:

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 4

Trustee Simon thanked the County Executive’s team for all their assistance
with helping the Maple Commons affordable housing development come to
fruition and we look forward to continuing our partnership with Westchester
County. Trustee Simon also addressed Croton’s flood control issues since it
has a direct relationship to what Croton can do in the future for housing and
looks forward to working with the County on this issue as well.
Trustee Murtaugh advised that next fall the Croton School District will be
experiencing field shortage and asked if there was any potential for the
School District to reach out to the County to get some favorable rates to use
some of their fields at Croton Point Park. Trustee Murtaugh also addressed
an issue that has been brought up to the Board by one of their constituents
regarding the lack of taxes to Croton from the MTA and their impact on
Croton’s emergency services and asked if there is any way to think about
some sort of a “Pilot” (Payment in Lieu of Taxes) program.
County Executive Latimer suggested that the School District reach out to his
office to set up a meeting to discuss field use at Croton Point Park. County
Executive Latimer responded to the question regarding the MTA and stated
that he believes that this is something that will be difficult to do and
ultimately it is a decision that would be made at the State Government level.
County Executive Latimer stated that MTA’s finances are very weak and it is
one of the reasons why they have pushed for the “Congestion Pricing”
program as a revenue stream. County Executive Latimer stated that he
believes they will be highly resistant to a payment in lieu of taxes but we
should still have a discussion and include both Senator Harckham and
Assemblywoman Levenberg to try to get a sense of what it will take in
Albany to purse this.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that our Police, Fire and EMT respond to
emergencies several times a day at the MTA facility.
Trustee Nicholson stated that fifteen to twenty percent of our EMT calls are
from the MTA, which is a considerable number. Trustee Nicholson stated
that there is no longer is a Fire Brigade on the MTA property, and it is our
Fire Department that responds to these emergencies and from a public safety
perspective there should be an opportunity for discussion.
County Executive Latimer stated that addressing these considerable amounts
of municipal services might be the way to address this and he will report
back to the Board as they make progress.

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 5

Mayor Pugh thanked County Executive Latimer and Deputy County Executive
Jenkins for coming to the meeting, he thanked the County’s investment in
Croton Point Park and looks forward to the County including the revitalization
of the pool on the park grounds because there is a long-standing need in
Westchester. Mayor Pugh also thanked them for their partnership on
housing, we rely very much on the technical guidance from the Pace
University Land Use Law Center and thanked the staff for their support.
7. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
John Ealer, 5 Prickly Pear Hill Road, Croton on Hudson and member of the
Conservation Advisory Committee thanked the Board for their support of
“Clean” and the efforts to adopt 9A.
Trustee Simon commended Mr. Ealer for all the work they are doing with
“Clean”. Trustee Simon stated that Mr. Ealer also has some suggestions with
respect to Gouveia and looks forward to hearing those suggestions as well.
Ed Riley, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the State of
New York is a major polluter, yet the Indian Brook Croton/Gorge
Intermunicipal Watershed Overlay District Agreement left out the New York
State Department of Transportation, as well as other polluters in the area.
Mr. Riely stated that Croton has too many signs throughout the Village, and
many should be taken down and that when another government entity takes
down trees, we should apply the same standards to them with respect to
replacing those trees.
8. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #70-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson utilizes License Plate Recognition (LPR)
devices to enhance parking enforcement activities within the community, and
WHEREAS maintenance and upkeep of the LPR devices are essential for ensuring the
continued effectiveness and efficiency of parking and law enforcement operations, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 6

WHEREAS SecureWatch24 of New York, NY, has proposed a Premier Maintenance Plan to
provide for ongoing maintenance and repair of the LPR devices, thereby ensuring optimal
functioning of the systems,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the Premier Maintenance Plan for the LPR system on behalf of the Village of Croton-onHudson at an annual cost of $3,600, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this expense is available in the following
account:
A5650.4000 – Parking – Contractual.
Resolution 71-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson recognizes the importance of maintaining a
litter-free and attractive environment along State Highway R.O.W. segments within its
jurisdiction, and
WHEREAS the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT) and CLEAN
Croton on Hudson, a subcommittee of the Conservation Advisory Council, represented by
the Village Manager’s Office, have expressed mutual interest in entering into an Adopt-AHighway Agreement to facilitate roadside maintenance activities, and
WHEREAS the terms and conditions outlined in the Adopt-A-Highway Agreement are
deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure the safety of participants and the traveling
public while conducting maintenance activities,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the Adopt-A-Highway Agreement with the New York State Department of
Transportation on behalf of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
DISCUSSION
The Board of Trustees stated that this is a great initiative and thanked the Conservation
Advisory Committee and the “Clean” Committee for moving forward on this.
Resolution #72-2024

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 7

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the property located at 47 Harrison Street, known as Sheet 68.17, Block 2, Lot
18 on the tax map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, encroaches onto Village-owned
property within the Harrison Street right-of-way, and
WHEREAS the encroachments have existed since at least 1935 without interference with
the operation and maintenance of the Village street, and
WHEREAS it is in the best interest of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to formalize the
existing encroachment through a license agreement with the owners of 47 Harrison
Street, and
WHEREAS the License Agreement attached hereto outlines the terms and conditions for
the use and occupation of the encroached portion of the Village-owned property by the
Licensee,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the License Agreement with the owners of the property located at 47 Harrison Street,
subject to review and approval by the Village Attorney, to formalize the existing
encroachment as outlined in the agreement attached hereto.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that to satisfy the buyer’s bank and the Title
Company, we put language in the License Agreement that the Agreement will remain in
place so long as the existing house is there. Village Attorney Whitehead explained that
while a municipality does not generally give exclusive use of their rights-of-way, and they
are typically revocable agreements, this is a very wide right-of- way and the License
Agreement will not interfere with the use of the roadway.
Resolution #73-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE POLITI, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York, with a 5–0 vote.
WHEREAS in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture that
a special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and
WHEREAS Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 8

WHEREAS trees provide an abundance of environmental and aesthetic advantages to
citizens and wildlife, wherever they are found, and
WHEREAS trees in our Village increase property values, enhance the economic vitality of
business areas, and beautify our community, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been recognized as a Tree City USA by
the National Arbor Day Foundation since 1984 and desires to continue its tree-planting
program,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, on behalf of the
Village Board of Trustees, does hereby proclaim April 26, 2024, as “Arbor Day”, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that all residents of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson are
urged to support efforts to preserve our urban forests, cool our streets, clean our air,
reduce our carbon footprint and improve our overall state of wellbeing.
Resolution #74 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS in February 2024, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson authorized the upgrade of
its utility billing software with Tyler Technologies, and
WHEREAS the Village currently uses NSight software for collecting water meter readings
and uploading data into the billing software. and
WHEREAS support for the NSight software is ending and the Village’s vendor, RIO Supply
Inc. of New York, NY, has provided a quote in the amount of $7,800 for Neptune360
software to replace Nsight, and
WHEREAS by integrating Neptune360 alongside Tyler Technologies' utility billing
software, the Village anticipates a more efficient and economical implementation process,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following budget transfers in the 2023-2024 Water and Sewer Fund budgets as follows:
WATER & SEWER EXPENSES
Decrease
F1990.4000

Contingency Water

$3,900.00

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 9

G1990.4000

Contingency Sewer

$3,900.00

Increase
F8310.4000

Water Admin. Contractual

$3,900.00

G8120.4000

Sewer-Contractual

$3,900.00

Resolution #75 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Recreation Department offers a variety of programs, classes, and special
events to residents, and
WHEREAS there has been a significant increase in both participation in these activities
and the accompanying costs in recent years, and
WHEREAS the Recreation Department has submitted a request for a budget transfer to
cover the compensation of instructors for the winter and spring classes provided, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2023-2024 General Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $2,200 from Account A7180.1100-Special Recreation Facilities
Personnel Service PT to the following account:
A7140.1100– Playgrounds & Rec Personnel Services PT:

$2,200

Resolution #76 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS in September of 2023, the Village hired a part-time staff member to conduct a
thorough examination of building permits and certificates of occupancy spanning the
1930s, 1940s, and 1950s, aiming to identify outstanding permits lacking certificates of
occupancy, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 10

WHEREAS 2,421 entries have been uncovered, spanning from 1931 to 1959, with an
approximate 2,000 entries necessitating review to determine if they contain open permits
without certificates of occupancy, and
WHEREAS the review is estimated to be completed by the end of May, and
WHEREAS the Village Engineer has requested an additional $3,000 in funding to cover
the completion of the work,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Treasurer to transfer $3,000 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account:
A1440.1100 Engineer- Personnel Services P/T: $3,000
Resolution #77 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on February 28, 2024, the Village Board authorized the award of the bid to
replace the retaining wall on the lower side of Grand Street along the properties of 25
Grand Street and 33 Grand Street to Catalyst Construction, LLC of Middletown, New York,
in the amount of $236,565.30, and
WHEREAS it was subsequently determined there was a non-material irregularity in the
bid from Catalyst Construction in that the bid was based on the original quantity of 1200
square feet of segmental retaining wall rather than 800 square feet for this item as set
forth in the Bid Addendum, and
WHEREAS the segmental retaining wall portion of the bid is a unit price bid and actual
payment will be based upon the actual quantity utilized, and
WHEREAS the Village and Westchester County recalculated the bids to correct the math
and determined with this correction Catalyst Construction, LLC remained the low bidder,
and
WHEREAS Catalyst Construction, LLC has submitted the acknowledgement of receipt of
the addendum and corrected itemized proposal sheet reflecting a corrected total bid of
$192,945.30, and

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 11

WHEREAS the irregularity of the Catalyst bid has been determined to be non-material
and to not have negatively impacted any other bidder or given Catalyst any competitive
advantage, and it is in the best interest of the Village to allow Catalyst to make this
correction and amend the contract,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board authorizes the Village Manager
to execute an amendment to the Contract with Catalyst Construction, LLC to incorporate
the corrected Itemized Proposal and reduce the total bid to the amount of $192,945.30.
Resolution #78 of 2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton- on- Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Justice Court maintains an annual operating budget with
contractual expenses tied to services and hearings as needed, and
WHEREAS more stenographic and interpreter services were required this fiscal year than
anticipated, and
WHEREAS these expenses were not included in the 2023-2024 General Fund Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Village Board authorizes the Village Treasurer to
make the following transfers in the 2023-2024 General Fund Budget:
General Fund
Increase
A1110.4000 - Justice Court Contractual
A1110.4200 - Justice Court-Supplies

$ 4,135.05
$ 131.00

Decrease
A1110.1100 – Justice Court-Personnel Services PT

$ 4,266.05

9. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Marilyn Grantner, 115 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that there
is a proposed change to the Senior Club By-Laws that members in good
standing that have lived in Croton or the School District but who have moved
to neighboring towns will be allowed to remain members of the Croton Senior
Club. Ms. Grantner also indicated that there was a discussion regarding

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 12

Croton Caring luncheons and whether former residents could attend those
luncheons. Ms. Grantner acknowledged that Croton Caring is not under the
Village's purview but wanted to bring it to the Board's attention.
Ed Riley, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson stated that he is concerned
that local residents will not be able to get housing at Maple Commons.
Email from Toni Senecal of the Croton Business Council stating that
businesses are still experiencing impacts from the pandemic and allowing
street vending on Saturdays would help them to make up for some of those
losses.
Trustee Politi read a list of businesses on Old Post Road and Grand Street
that are in support of allowing vending on Saturdays and asked the Board to
move on this tonight.
Mayor Pugh stated that this has been discussed in the past and it needs to be
studied further before we make a final decision, there are many moving parts
to this and believes it would be best to continue the discussion in an
upcoming work session.
10. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on March 20, 2024,
was made by Trustee Politi. The motion was seconded by Trustee Simon
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
March 27, 2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on April 3,
2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on April 4,
2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11. REPORTS:

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 13

Trustee Nicholson stated that some of the issues that have been brought up
at our meetings are deeply personal issues and she does not believe they
should be debated in this forum. Trustee Nicholson stated that camp spots
are filling up and encouraged residents to sign up if they have not done so,
encouraged residents to sign up for Cleans next clean-up day scheduled for
June 1st, Earth Day events will be held on April 27 and encouraged residents
to visit the Village’s website for more upcoming events.
Trustee Simon stated that he and Village Manager Healy attended a meeting
with the Mid-Hudson Regional Economic Council exploring various grant
possibilities for the Village, the Vietnam Veterans Remembrance Day
ceremony hosted by Town of Cortland this year was held on March 28th, on
March 28th a second Maple Commons information session was held, with a
third session held this afternoon, on April 2nd he attended the annual meeting
of Feeding Westchester, participated in a Pro-Housing Community Summit
by the Regional Plan Association, attended the annual meeting of the New
York Planning Federation in Saratoga Springs where Ann Gallelli was
posthumously awarded the “Levine Community Service Award, he was
honored to be able to talk about Ann’s accomplishments with her son, John
Gallelli, Jr. and share all that she did for Croton, participated in a zoom
meeting regarding a Sister City program run by USAID to assist cities in
Ukraine.
Trustee Murtaugh advised that since the adoption of the Accessory Dwelling
Law the Planning Board has legalized two Accessory Dwellings and
encouraged those that have not moved forward with the process to do so to
avoid any penalties. Trustee Murtaugh stated that he supports the suggestion
of putting up better signage at Croton Landing indicating where dogs can be
walked as well as signage at Gouveia.
Trustee Politi advised that the IDEA Committee holds “conversation hours”
every Tuesday from 7pm-8pm at the Croton Library, Culture Night will be
held on May 11th, the Croton School Board is also working on a DEI policy,
the District is also doing a culture survey, the Junteenth event will be held at
Bennett from 10am-12pm, the Big Easy event is scheduled for April 11th, and
encouraged residents to log onto the Village’s website for more information
on upcoming events.
Mayor Pugh thanked the New York Blood Center for organizing the recent
blood drives in Croton, congratulated the Croton Little League for a wonderful

Village Board of Trustees
April 10, 2024
Page 14

opening day ceremony and thanked all the volunteers for all they do for this
program, and thanked “Clean” for all their hard work and the new
responsibilities they are taking on.
Village Manager Healy advised that next Wednesday at 7:00pm they will be
holding a meeting with the Truesdale Drive, Nordica Drive and Cedar Lane
residents to talk about Residential Parking, the Budget work session will
follow that meeting at 8:00pm, announced that Old Post Road and Stevenson
Place will be milled next week in preparation for repaving.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Politi. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at
10:20pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary

___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

