BPC Meeting – Minutes
February 15, 2024
Attendees: Matt Arnold, Steven Krisky, Kevin Scott, Erik Ferguson, Amos Bloomberg,
Scott Marsh (DPW)
Ex-officio: Mayor Brian Pugh
Minutes:
January Meeting Minutes approved.
DPW Updates (Scott Marsh):
● ShopRite plaza:
● SM spoke w/ ShopRite plaza management contact. Very receptive to idea
of striping for the entrance ramp. Follow-ups in early Spring.
● Katz / Van Wyck / Croton Commons
● Investigating options for better pedestrian entry to plaza (e.g., ramp or
stairs); preparing conversation with property management gauge interest
in pursuing options to make access more pedestrian-friendly – esp. in
anticipation of new foot traffic from Katz Property housing.
● Sidewalk on Riverside by Mobil – apparently, funds available (in escrow).
Next step: awaiting NYDOT engineering sign-off. Scott to follow-up w/
NYDOT contact on status. Plan to redo ramp at RS and Municipal Pl to
make ADA compliant
● Area options (see Fig. 1 below):
■ A: As part of the Katz development, plan to have small “green”
space at NW corner, installation of crosswalk through buffer island
■ B: Investigating options for a proposed ramp/stairs providing safe
pedestrian passage to Commons
■ C: Pending sidewalk installation along Riverside by Mobil station
■ D: Once sidewalk installed, DPW planning to replace corner ramp
to make ADA compliant
● Cleveland Corridor
● Cleveland paving and Gotwald Circle enhancements (ramps, island,
crosswalks, etc.,) to (re)commence in Spring and span through
Summer/Fall (to be completed by EOY) as planned and reviewed by the
committee
● Cleveland Sidewalks – Reviewed drawings for proposed sidewalk
installation (as prepared for TAP grant submission). Proposed sidewalk

placement would establish a contiguous stretch from Benedict to Jacoby
on east side of the street.
● Questions on rationale for sidewalk along cemetery in the proposal
(Scott to follow-up).
● Further zoom-in on fine-tuning options for Five Corners intersection
and crosswalk placement
● Work contingent on award of the TAP grant (decision expected
within 3-5 months)
Priorities Discussion:
● Dummy Light / Upper Village Intersections:
● Next steps
● Review proposed plan(s) and compile recommendations at next
Committee meeting
● Prepare to re-introduce the engineering/consultancy report with
BPC recommendations to the board for reconsideration [Action:
Matt]
● Action – send consultancy’s design docs to BPC members in
advance of March’s meeting
● Katz Zone
● Discussed at the top of the meeting [See figure 1]
● Cleveland Corridor
● Discussed at the top of the meeting; proceeding as planned
● Sidewalk Network
● Committee to review, update and refine list of problematic and remediated
sidewalks – based on initial (crowd-sourced) mapping
Earth Day
● Bike clinic – agreed to pursue basic repair clinic as key part of our BPC Earth
Day event presence. To discuss and plan further during March session.
Actions:
● Share approved Jan meeting minutes with Emily for posting on Village website
[Matt]
● Send “Dummy Light” design docs to members in preparation for March meeting
[Matt]
March agenda topics:

● DPW Updates
● Dummy Light intersection proposal review and recommendations
● Earth Day planning/prep
Fig. 1

