APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, October 31, 2023
Roll Call: J. Munson (221), J. Karpoff (487), C. Colombo (133), C. Sarcone (259), E. Carlino
(596), M. Feminella (162), J. Ferguson (164), D. Vlad (318), J. Delaney (350), W. Skiba (267),
T. Kaplan (501), K. Goldstein (576), G. Tucci (284)
EXCUSED: B. Powers (474), J. Streany (275)
Department Members: T. Dinkler (152), C. Caterino (539), J. Gilbert (548), S. Bjorge (547),
D. Dunn (342), E. Conti (137), W. Gallagher (177)
Others in Attendance: Village Trustee Len Simon
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by Chief Munson at 19:00.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Trustee Simon reminded all of LOSAP Referendum
Vote on 11/7, thanked all for a successful Fire Fair and thanked Ladder Company for invitation
to Company Picnic.
Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion J. Ferguson / 2nd G. Tucci to approve September Fire Council Minutes – CARRIED.
Bills and Communications:
• Application for Active Membership with Washington Engine Company received from
Ryan Lavelle. Motion D. Vlad/2nd J. Delaney to approve pending favorable background
check – CARRIED.
• Application for PAF Membership with Washington Engine Company received from Xan
Cohen. Motion J. Ferguson/2nd J. Delaney to approve pending favorable background check
– CARRIED.
• Letter from Chemical Engine indicating David Altamura is changing his status from Social
to Active Membership. Motion J. Ferguson/2nd J. Delaney to approve status change –
CARRIED.
Reports of the Chiefs
C. Colombo (2083)
•
•
•
•
•
•

Thanked Ladder Company for invitation to Company Picnic.
New floor coating work at Chemical and Washington coming soon.
Shower installation at WECO is in hands of Company to decide upon.
Working on roof leaks at Harmon Firehouse with DPW and Roofer.
Awaiting drawings for proposed work to front of WECO Firehouse.
Good plans have been agreed upon for an EMS addition at Harmon Firehouse.

J. Karpoff (2082)
•
•

Thanked all for their efforts answering calls.
Thanked everyone for successful Fire Fair.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, October 31, 2023
•
•

Ongoing IT-related issues at Harmon Firehouse.
Reminded all to sign-up for classes as soon as they are posted, as they fill up fast.

J. Munson (2081)
•
•
•

•
•
•

Thanked all for a successful Fire Fair.
Thanked all for the numerous Fire Prevention and other community outreach events
recently.
Rig Updates – E119 is at Hendrickson for PM and pump repairs. TL44 will be getting new
rear tires this week or next. R18 is OOS with coolant alarm issue. T10 has air leaks
being repaired on 11/1. U14 due for Inspection, U208 needs oil change. New TL44
specs a work in progress with village.
Training – Live Fire Training day in New Haven scheduled for 11/25/23. New Member
Orientation Training will be held on 11/5/23 and 11/6/23.
Events – Adult Holiday Party on 12/30/23 at Cortlandt Yacht Club.
Projects – E118 Bay Floor has been poured, electrical work ongoing, awaiting vendor to
do brick wall work and epoxy colors have been chosen, will be completed soon. TL44
gym area work has begun and DPW is working quickly on it. IT project is still 95% done
at all 3 Firehouses. WECO shower work still on hold waiting for Company to agree on
plan. Harmon Firehouse expansion project meeting on 10/25 went well, all members
emailed the proposed addition drawings. This plan will benefit FD and EMS greatly. No
new updates on new M12.

Reports of Committees
Fund Drive – T. Dinkler provided a report. Donations seem to be doing well, a lot of new
people making first time donations. Received a Thank You letter from a resident of Cleveland
Drive for our response to their home earlier in year.
LOSAP – T. Dinkler reports progress is being made on new records management system. All
members will have access to see their information and to, hopefully, update and add to it going
forward. Fire Reports will likely need someone to continue a QA role to make sure they are
done and completed correctly.
Investigation Committee – M. Feminella submitted a report on behalf of the committee. The
committee found that J. Karpoff cannot be nominated for the position of Chief due to his
physical/medical status at the time of his nomination. All other nominees were approved,
however those that did not complete annually required OSHA/PESH training must – at the
direction of the Fire Council – complete said training by the end of January 2024. Motion J.
Ferguson / 2nd G. Tucci to approve Investigation Committee’s report (attached) – CARRIED.
Special Order of Business: None
Unfinished Business: None

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, October 31, 2023
New Business:
M. Feminella wanted to ensure that any write-in candidate for Chief meets all requirements of
the Department. The qualifications of all write-in candidates will have to be reviewed following
the Department Elections.
J. Ferguson asked Council for approval to allow WECO Wardens to plan a Department Dinner
Dance. Motion T. Kaplan/2nd W. Skiba to approve – CARRIED.
Treasurer’s Report: None provided.
Motion to Adjourn by J. Ferguson /2nd G. Tucci – CARRIED. M eeting Adjourned at

19:59.

Draft M inutes R espectfully Subm itted by John M unson, Secretary on 11/ 1/ 23.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, October 31, 2023
Chief Munson
The Investigation Committee met on Tuesday October 17th 2023 at Washington Engine
Company headquarters at 81 North Riverside Ave.
In attendance was Brian Powers, William Skiba, Kimberly Russel and Egidio Carlino
The Committee has deemed the following:
Josh Karpoff has been deemed by the investigative committee to not be a member of good
standing at the time of his nomination.
Article II Section 2.1 – 2.2C (2.2C Specifically)
Be a member of Good Standing at the time of nomination.
Article VII: Membership Section 7.15
A Member in Good Standing is the status assigned to a member of the Croton Volunteer Fire
Department when he or she is current with all dues, fines, assessments and is in compliance with
all other requirements of the Croton Volunteer Fire Department By-Laws and their respective
Company’s By-laws. Remaining current includes required annual percentage of calls, annual
physicals, training to maintain your classification of membership, training required by NYS
DOL/PESH and any other requirements of the Croton Volunteer Fire Department.
In addition, a member in good standing must comply with all explicit obligations of the
Department and their respective Company while not being subject to any form of suspension or
disciplinary action. This includes probation or suspension in accordance with these by-laws.
Only members in good standing are eligible to participate in all meetings, serve on committees,
put forth motions and seconds, and be nominated to serve as a company or department officer,
either firematic or social, if qualified. Members in good standing have the right to vote at
company and department elections, at the time of said elections providing all of the above are
met.
The following candidates have not completed the required annual OSHA/PESH Training
Required by 6/30 of each year: J Karpoff, C Caterino, C Sarcone, W Vlad, D Holder, C Colombo
Jr, T Kaplan, J Ghegan, C Rinaldi, A Grant, and J Nohai
I (we) recommend a special class to get these candidates up to date and the remainder of the
department to follow.

APPROVED Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, October 31, 2023
Nomination of Officer’s Letters from Chemical and H&L were not submitted to council by the
September meeting.
No official list of Candidates exists. Not in the minutes (Draft September 2023)
All other Candidates meet Department By-Laws for their respective positions.
C Colombo, J Ferguson, B Farber, B Ghezelayagh, J Gilbert, M Mallory, C Delaney, A Gmoser,
J Delaney, R Cusano, W Gallagher, G Tucci
Respectfully Submitted
Michael Feminella
Croton Fire Department
Council Warden
Candidate Investigation Chairman

