Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, December 20, 2023, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Simon

1.

Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:06pm and led everyone in the
pledge of allegiance.

2.

APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 23243137 through 23243271. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

3.

$169,897.70
$17,279.88
$3,966.04
$400,015.97

PRESENTATION/VILLAGE AUDIT: By Alan Kassay of PKF O’Connor Davies.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/ad7e2b2b2f89272db441263f0821c033d6b74e2a.pdf

4.

PUBLIC HEARING:
A motion was made by Trustee Murtaugh and seconded by Trustee Simon to
open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 21 of 2023, to amend
Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to update regulations related to
accessory apartments and permit accessory cottages in residential districts.
Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that the proposed law will now include
provisions for detached cottages, reducing the habitable area and the
elimination, on a case-by-case basis by the Planning Board, of parking
requirements, the law also limits the number of permits to fifty which is
inclusive of accessory apartments that already exist.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 2

Trustee Murtaugh stated that this is also a way to capture accessory
apartments that are currently in operation but have not been approved.
Village Manager Healy stressed that the goal is to make sure that those
illegal accessary apartments are safe, once this legislation is passed, the
Village would grant an amnesty period and not charge penalties for those
who come forward to legalize their current accessory apartment.
Mayor Pugh stated that this came out of the work of our Housing Task Force
that was convened in 2019 in response to Westchester County’s Housing
Needs Assessment and an accessory dwelling unit law was one of the
recommendations.
Steven Krisky, 49 Sunset Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes
the Planning Board had recommended a six-month minimum lease so that
we address Airbnb’s so as not to see a revolving door of tenants.
Mayor Pugh stated that they are aware of the Planning Board’s
recommendation and the consensus of the Board was that we should have a
comprehensive short-term rental law that covers all rental properties and
not just accessory dwelling units.
Ethan Lewis, 38 Glengary Lane, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is in full
support of the proposed Local Law and believes that this change is a positive
step forward for our community and directed everyone to the Village’s
website
to
view
drawings
on
how
this
could
look.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202311/566299754b3691ab833766f3b84636bb9689d2b9.pdf
Julie Evans, 100 Benedict Blvd, on Hudson, stated that she believes the
language in the law was thoughtfully crafted, and in general she is in favor
of it, but does not know how the number fifty was determined. Ms. Evans
stated that she took an inventory of neighborhoods in the RA5 and RA9
Districts and there are very few compliant accessory buildings, most of our
neighborhoods were built before the Zoning Code of 1930 and most of the
garages are almost at the backyard lot lines and/or close to the sideline.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that if a structure is already at that
location, it would be allowed to be used as an accessory cottage as long as it
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 3

meets the minimum size, but new structures would have to have the tenfoot setback.
Steven Krisky, 49 Sunset Drive, Croton on Hudson, suggested incorporating
short-term leases into short term rental legislation since he expects it could
take a while to get this legislation on the books.
Mayor Pugh stated that he does not believe it will take a long time to
develop a short-term rental law and does not recommend anyone building
an accessory structure with the intention of having it being a short-term
rental operation especially since the Board has expressed their intent to put
a short-term rental law in place.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon and seconded by
Trustee Nicholson. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
5.

REVIEW OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM PART II AND THE
VILLAGE’S WATERFRONT REVITALIZATION PROGRAM POLICIES BY THE
VILLAGE BOARD TO DETERMINE CONSISTENCY RELATED TO THE ADOPTION
OF LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 21 OF 2023.

Short Environmental Assessment Form Part II
No, or
small
impact
may
occur
1.

.

Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics that caused the
establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing level of traffic or
affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walkway?

√

6.

√

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to incorporate
reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy opportunities?

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 4

√

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?

√

b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic, archaeological,
architectural or aesthetic resources?

√

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources (e.g., wetlands,
waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or human health?

√

Village Board Review of Consistency with the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program to
Determine Consistency to determine consistency related to the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 21 of 2023.
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore, revitalize, and redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized
waterfront areas for commercial,
industrial, cultural, recreational and
other compatible uses
Existing planning and zoning documents
should be reviewed and amended
where necessary to ensure
development within the community is
consistent with adopted goals and
policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned
land at the Metro North Train Station,
including Village garage and bay area.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro North Train
Station, while facilitating public access
to bay area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the
municipality to encourage the mutual
cooperation and exchange of
information between governmental
agencies involved in clean-up of the
Croton landfill and Metro-North lagoon
in order to develop commercial use of
resources found in the coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating

1A

1B

1C

1D

.

WAC RESPONSE

VILLAGE BOARD

Applicable
Yes/No
No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 5

structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant
site at the intersection of Route 9A and
Municipal Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power
boats on the Hudson River and Croton
River and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters
that regulate boat traffic such a speed,
turbidity, safety, and mooring and
sludge disposal. Such controls will
further increase the compatibility of
power boat use with other forms of
recreation use within the coastal zone
area.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of major ports is not
applicable to
Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the
strengthening of small harbors is not
applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development
in areas where public services and
facilities essential to such development
are adequate, except when such
development has special functional
requirements or other characteristics
which necessitate its location in other
coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water
and sewer facilities or in close proximity
to areas where distribution lines
currently exist.
The extension of water and sewer
distribution lines beyond areas currently
served should be undertaken cautiously
and with prudent regard for Village
water resources and the preservation of
environmental values in undeveloped
areas.
Limit proposed development within
those portions of the coastal zone
boundary area, where traffic impacts
such as site distance and carrying
capacity of the roadways are restricted,
particularly along Route 9A, Albany Post

1E
2
2A

3

4

5

5A

5B

5C

.

No
No
No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 6

Road and Route 129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the
Village shall coordinate all relevant local
laws into a development package for
applicants and/or make all local laws
available to applicants proposing
development activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife
habitats will be protected, preserved,
and, where practical, restored so as to
maintain their viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitat shall be protected and
improved for conservation, economic,
aesthetic, recreational, and other public
uses and values. Its resources shall be
protected from the threat of pollution,
misuse, and mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
the Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitat shall not be disposed of
or allowed to drain in, or on land within,
the area of influence in the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River
and Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat or Haverstraw Bay significant
fish and wildlife habitat shall not be
permitted within the area of influence of
the habitat unless best available
technology is used to prevent adverse
impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay
and Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitats and shore lands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of
any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
sites.
Runoff from public and private parking
lots and from storm sewer overflows
shall be effectively channeled so as to
prevent oil, grease, and other
contaminants from polluting surface and

6
6A

7

7A

7B

7C

7D

7E

.

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 7

ground water and impact the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must
not cause a measurable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such
activity, or impact other locations.
Construction activity shall be timed so
that spawning of anadromous fish
species and shellfish will not be
adversely affected.
Such activities must not cause
degradation of water quality or impact
identified significant fish and wildlife
habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain,
or which cause significant sub lethal or
lethal effect on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts
shall be made in a manner which
ensures the protection of renewable fish
and wildlife resources and considers
other activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through
Village-owned land adjacent to the
Metro-North parking lot, at Croton Point
Park and at Senasqua Park, along the
Croton River, and at the Croton Yacht
Club. Efforts should be made to
encourage recreational use of the fish
and wildlife resources found in these
areas by increasing the opportunities for
public access and enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational
enjoyment of the wildlife in the
designated significant fish and wildlife
habitats, on the Audubon Society
Sanctuaries, on other public or private
lands within the Village, where wildlife
habitats are located. Encourage the
recreational use of areas where such
resources are found, as well as the
protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in
the coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new or improvement of
existing onshore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the

7F

7G

8

9

9A

9B

10

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 8

state's seafood products, maintaining
adequate stocks, and expanding
aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall
be made in a manner which ensures the
protection of renewable fish and wildlife
resources and considers other activities
dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be
sited in the coastal area so as to
minimize damage to property and the
endangering of human lives caused by
flooding and erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures
shall be undertaken in order to
safeguard persons, protect property,
prevent damage to the environment,
and promote the public welfare by
guiding, regulating and controlling the
design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or
other activity which disturbs or breaks
the topsoil or results in earth movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to
minimize damage to natural resources
and property from flooding and erosion
by protecting natural protective features
including beaches, dunes, barrier
islands and bluffs. Primary dunes will
be protected from all encroachments
that could impair their natural protective
capacity
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier
to Croton Bay from activities or
development that would increase
erosion of or flooding of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a
reasonable probability of controlling
erosion for at least thirty years as
demonstrated in design and
construction standards and/or assured
maintenance or replacement programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must
be maintained in good condition and
private landowners should be required
to restore and maintain erosion control
mechanisms along their river frontage
which are designed for long term
stability.
Activities and development, including

11

11A

12

12A

13

13A

14

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 9

the construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures, shall be
undertaken so that there will be no
measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activities or
development, or at other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in
coastal waters shall not significantly
interfere with the natural coastal
processes which supply beach materials
to land adjacent to such waters and
shall be undertaken in a manner which
will not cause an increase in erosion of
such land.
Public funds shall only be used for
erosion protective structures where
necessary to protect human life, and
new development which requires a
location within or adjacent to an erosion
hazard area to be able to function, or
existing development; and only where
the public benefits outweigh the long
term monetary and other costs including
the potential for increasing erosion and
adverse effects on natural protective
features
Public funds shall be appropriated for
the yearly maintenance of Senasqua
Park until such time that is determined
that expenditure of funds outweighs the
cost of acquiring, constructing and
maintaining a similar public park on
Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural
measures to minimize damage to
natural resources and property from
flooding and erosion. Such measures
shall include: (i) the setback of buildings
and structures; (ii) the planting of
vegetation and the installation of sand
fencing and draining; (iii) the reshaping
of bluffs; and (iv) the flood-proofing of
buildings or their elevation above the
base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes rising from
areas inland shall be of a non-structural
nature, wherever possible, in
consideration of the visual impact of
structural measures. The retention or
planting of vegetative covers will be
preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the state
and of its citizens, proposed major

15

16

16A

17

17A

18

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 10

actions in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to
the safeguards which the state has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and
facilities so that these resources and
facilities may be fully utilized in
accordance with reasonably anticipated
public recreation needs and the
protection of historic and natural
resources. In providing such access,
priority will be given to public beaches,
boating facilities, fishing areas and
waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space
along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in
the form of a trail or walkway system.
Such systems should be provided along
undeveloped and underutilized land as
well as along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that
have specific value for their physical and
visual access to the Hudson River or
Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public
transportation, when feasible, to areas
within the coastal zone area where
water dependent and water enhanced
recreation activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and
Bay at the Village-owned land south of
the Village parking lots at the CrotonHarmon Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access
to the Croton River waterfront, in its
current undeveloped condition as a
pedestrian walkway.
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. Such
lands shall be retained in public
ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast,
provided it is consistent with the
preservation and enhancement of other
coastal resources and takes into

19

19A

19B

19C

19D

19E

20

21

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 11

account demand for such facilities. In
facilitating such activities, priority shall
be given to areas where access to the
recreation opportunities of the coast can
be provided by new or existing public
transportation services and to those
areas where the use of the shore is
severely restricted by existing
development.
Boating activities should be encouraged
provided that they do not restrict other
recreational opportunities and are
undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to
the shore will provide for water-related
recreation, as a multiple use, whenever
such recreational use is appropriate in
light reasonably anticipated demand for
such activities and the primary purpose
of the development
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, in areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources
of statewide significance as identified
on the coastal area map. Impairment
shall include: (i) the irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation,
the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition
of structures which because of siting or
scale will reduce identified views or
which because of scale, form, or
materials will diminish the scenic quality
of an identified resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified as being of statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal
area.
Protect local scenic resources by
preventing: (i) the irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or
wetlands, the destruction, or removal

21A

22

23

24

25

25A

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 12

of structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resources; and (ii) the
addition of structures which because of
siting scale will reduce identified views
or which because of scale, form, or
materials will diminish the scenic
quality of an identified resource.
Secure the designation of the
panoramic views from Croton Point as a
scenic area of statewide significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and
129 within the Croton boundaries as a
scenic road. Ensure developments on
or adjacent to Route 9 do not impair
scenic resources or views of or from the
Hudson and Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified viewsheds which provide visual access to
the Hudson River, including but not
limited to the views of the Hudson River
from the western shoreline of the
Village, and from Prickly Pear Hill,
Lounsbury Hill, and River Landing. In
addition, protect view-sheds to and of
the Croton River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the
protection of agricultural lands is not
applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction
of major energy facilities in the coastal
area will be based on public energy
needs, compatibility of such facilities
with the environment, and the facility's
need for a shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
damage significant fish and wildlife and
their habitats, increase shoreline
erosion or flooding, or interfere with the
production of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must
consider short- and long-term impacts on
the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and
wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of energy resources is not
applicable to Croton.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial

25B
25C

25D

26

27

28

28A

29

30

.

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 13

discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited to, toxic and hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water
quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose any
materials in coastal waters until such
materials have been tested by the state
for conformance with water quality
standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials
shall be monitored by the state to
assure there will be no discharge or
leaching of materials into coastal
waters.
State coastal area policies and
purposes of approved local waterfront
revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal
water classifications and while
modifying water quality standards;
however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be
recognized as being a development
constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC
should continually monitor water quality
in the Hudson River and Croton Bay
which have already been overburdened
with pollutants. Recommendations for
mitigation and upgrading water quality
classifications cannot be determined
without continual monitoring and testing
of the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in
small communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities
Best Management Practices will be
used to ensure the control of storm
water runoff and combined sewer
overflows draining into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain
storm water runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing
system or to improve existing storm
water runoff systems to that runoff from
such developments does not adversely
impact coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water
discharge to control flow of pollutants
from street and parking areas, etc.

30A

30B

31

31A

32

33

33A

33B

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 14

directly in the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters
from vessels will be limited so as to
protect significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreational areas and water
supply areas.
There shall be no discharge from
moored structures or marine vessels,
due to shape of cove and lack of tidal
flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in
coastal waters will be undertaken in a
manner that meets existing state
dredging permit requirements, and
protects significant fish and wildlife
habitats, scenic resources, natural
protective features, important
agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other
hazardous materials will be conducted
in a manner that will prevent or at lease
minimize spills into coastal waters; all
practicable efforts will be undertaken to
expedite the cleanup of such
discharges; and restitution for damages
will be required when these spills occur.
Best Management Practices will be
utilized to minimize the non-point
discharge of excess nutrients, organics
and eroded soils into coastal waters.
Standards and specifications for the
control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County's Best
Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops,
and steep slopes should be exerted in
order to prevent erosion and minimize
runoff and flooding from new
construction.
The quality and quantity of surface
water and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the
primary or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas
will be conducted in such a manner so
as to protect groundwater and surface
water supplies, significant fish and
wildlife habitats, recreation areas,
important agricultural lands and scenic

34

34A

35

36

37

37A

37B

38

39

.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 15

resources.
Require transporters, producers and
storers of hazardous material to inform
the public or allow public access to
records involving the transport, storage,
treatment and disposal of hazardous
materials. This is of particular concern
with respect to rail transport of such
materials, storage of identified materials
on railroad property and uses in the
waterfront area involved in the
treatment, storage and disposal of such
materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302,
Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to- Know of the 1986 Superfund
Reauthorization Act, the local
emergency planning committee and the
Croton Fire Department shall be notified
if hazardous substances exceed the
established threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial
facilities into coastal waters will not be
unduly injurious to fish and wildlife and
shall conform to state water quality
standards.
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or state air
quality standards to be violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring
station should be established within the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the state reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of
the Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of the acid rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus
service to the train station, thereby
decreasing dependency on the
automobile use and reduce the
generation of acid rain precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil
fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
development of a monitoring program to
assess rail vehicle engines emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and
freshwater wetlands and preserve the
benefits derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and

39A

39B

40

41
41A
42

43

43A

43B

44
44A

.

No

No

No

No
No
No

No

No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 16

watercourses shall be protected by
preventing damage from erosion or
siltation, minimizing disturbance,
preserving natural habitats and
protecting against flood and pollution.

6.

RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL: None

7.

CORRESPONDENCE:
a.

Request from the Conservation Advisory Council to include language
requiring compliance with the current gas-powered leaf blower
regulation in the next contract for landscaping services in the Village.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/efce5778f10b7a58823bd6efd1663c86fdcffab5.pdf
Village Manager Healy explained that there are certain areas in the
Village where they still need to have access to gas powered blowers
since the alternative technology has not been developed yet to
manage those larger areas, but it is certainly something that we can
discuss down the line for future bids.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that if the Village were to go in that
direction, bids specifications would have to reflect these
requirements.
b.

Letter from Friends of a Clean Hudson Coalition requesting the Village
to sign on to a letter to the EPA regarding the third five-year review
(FYR) report for the Hudson River PCB’s Superfund Site.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/674c949e0a28fdbfb15a5a99c69f264ed51b87df.pdf
RESOLUITON:
On motion by Trustee Politi and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson authorized the
Village Manager to forward a letter to the EPA supporting the
initiatives of the Friends of a Clean Hudson Coalition. Motion was
approved with a 5-0 vote.

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 17

c. Notice from Piato Greek Kitchen, 173 S. Riverside Avenue, Croton on
Hudson, of intent to apply for a Liquor License Class Change through
the New York State Liquor Authority.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/ff1b53001d87a60f251edbf739bb0af9a94143ee.pdf
d. Year-End Report from the Police Advisory Committee.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/bc87a41cd106b0e1daf3719ad49dfbd3f034dadc.pdf
e. Notice from Altice regarding pricing changes to cable TV packages.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/078fdbdb9b739592bde30fd17a22f34166f4a270.pdf
f. Announcement from the Hudson Valley Regional Council (HVRC) on
the Village’s receipt of a 2023 Impact Award.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/af724a2519a098bbaab34d9b7f5e9f619696cfeb.pdf
g. Annual report from the Croton Conservation Advisory Council (CCAC).
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/ab736ac85de378c1f67715ec4fe011321f97c743.pdf
h. Email from John Munson, President/Secretary of the Croton Fire
Council regarding the Fire Chief’s election results.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/793a125f51da3dd2765dd0a33a466503c93f0eba.pdf
i. Memo from the NYS Department of State regarding the Federal
Consistency Assessment form and permit application for the Croton
Point Park Bulkhead Wall Coping Replacement project.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/2650a5dd4fedb9f33349ce9fc0cfa50326faed81.pdf
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 18

RESOLUTION
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton on Hudson authorized
referring the request for a Consistency Review to the Planning Board
with respect to the Croton Point Park Bulkhead Wall Coping
Replacement project. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
8.

PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS
Sherry Horowitz, 119 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson stated that Board
Liaisons perform valuable functions and suggested that the Board consider a
slightly different emphasis to the language in the Trustee Liaison Guidelines,
instead of Liaisons being asked to attend their committee assignments
meeting when possible, she would like to see stronger language that reflects
the expectation that liaisons will consistently attend their committee
assigned meetings. Ms. Horowitz stated that the Conservation Advisory
Council has been working on gas-powered leaf blowers for quite some time,
and strongly recommended that the Board look into their recommendations.

9.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #263 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program (“LOSAP”)
was approved by referendum in 2003, and
WHEREAS Article 11-a of the General Municipal Law (“GML”) authorizes the Village, as
LOSAP Sponsor, to amend the LOSA, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson adopted a resolution
on June 26, 2023, authorizing a public referendum to seek approval to increase the years
of service credit that can be earned by a volunteer under the LOSAP program from
twenty (20) to forty (40) years and increase the monthly service award to $30 for years
of service credit earned after 2023, and

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 19

WHEREAS the referendum was held on November 7, 2023, and was approved by a
majority of the electorate, and
WHEREAS the provisions of a service award program regarding firefighter participation,
benefits earned and paid, and program operation must be formally stated in a written
“Plan Document” and adopted by the Village Board,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby adopts the Croton
Volunteer Fire Department Service Award Program Plan Document attached hereto.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that the changes requested by Tex Dinkler at our last
meeting have been reflected in the “Plan Document.”
Resolution #270 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with
a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the Village Code
concerning the provisions of provisions of solar energy and battery energy storage
systems, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering taking an action to adopt Local Law
Introductory No. 22 of 2023, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village has completed Part 1 of a Short Environmental Assessment Form
(EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF),
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is an “Unlisted
Action.”
2. The Village Board hereby declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes in connection with the Proposed Action.
3. The Village Board hereby issues the EAF and CAF which it has before it
in connection with the Proposed Action.
4. The Village Board hereby refers to the Village Planning Board the Draft Law
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 20

for a report back to the Village Board in accordance with Village law.
5. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the
Village Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the
Village Board in accordance with Village Law.
6. The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF the
Westchester County Planning Board for review in accordance with law.
7. The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations and
notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that he spoke with the Fire Chiefs regarding the provisions
under the Fire Safety Plan for the battery energy sources and they had no changes and
were pleased with what had been written.
Resolution #271 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 179, Property
Maintenance, of the Village Code to provide for the removal of weeds, brush, and
rubbish, as well as the registration and maintenance of vacant commercial building, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 23 of 2023 has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on January 10, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room
of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law Introductory No.
23 of 2023, to amend Chapter 179, Property Maintenance, of the Village Code.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village Engineer has requested that the language
in our Code be updated to reflect New York State’s “Property Maintenance Code” which
will allow our law to be more up to date with what areas are required to be maintained.
Resolution 272 of 2023

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 21

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Village Law § 7-724 provides for the ability of a Village to adopt an official map
showing the streets, highways and parks theretofore laid out, and
WHEREAS the official map of the Village was last updated on April 20, 1992, and
WHEREAS additional streets and parks in the Village have been opened since that time,
and
WHEREAS the Village retained CAI Technologies of Littleton, New Hampshire, to create a
new official map of the Village,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers the
official map of the Village to the Planning Board for review and comment, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on January 10, 2024, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room
of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider the adoption of the official
map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York.
Resolution 273 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is interested in pursuing grant funding through
the BRIDGE NY program for the replacement of a culvert on State Route 9A, and
WHEREAS the culvert is the responsibility of the Village as it was constructed prior to
1971, and
WHEREAS the 2023 round of the BRIDGE NY Program, administered by the New York
State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT), provides funding assistance to local
governments to rehabilitate and replace bridges, and

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 22

WHEREAS due to the complex and technical requirements of the grant, the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson desires to contract with a professional grant writer to assist in the
preparation of the application, and
WHEREAS C.T. Male Associates of Latham, New York, has prepared a proposal for grant
application preparation services in the amount of $5,800, and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby accepts the
proposal from C.T. Male Associates in an amount not to exceed $5,800, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this expense is available in the 2023-2024
General Fund Budget in the following account:
A1230.4000 – Municipal Executive – Contractual
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy stated that State grants are extremely competitive, and it
behooves the Village to hire a company that understands what the State is looking for,
C.T. Male has a good record and should give us the most success in securing funding.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that he believes this is money well spent, if we are successful in
getting the grant, the work will be fully funded.
Resolution 274 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0
vote.
WHEREAS in 2022, Croton EMS vacated the EMS House at 44 Wayne Street due to
unsafe conditions, and
WHEREAS a working group of representatives from the Fire Department, EMS, Village
and community have determined that putting an addition onto the Harmon Firehouse for
Croton EMS to use as their headquarters would be the most economical and wise use of
Village resources, and
WHEREAS on October 17, 2022, the Village Board accepted a proposal from Sullivan
Architecture of White Plains, New York, for pre-design services and schematic design at a
cost not to exceed $32,000, and
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 23

WHEREAS Sullivan has provided an additional proposal for the drafting of construction
documents related to the addition at a cost not to exceed $25,500,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to accept the proposal from Sullivan Architecture at a cost not to
exceed $25,500, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for such expense is available in the following
account: H4540.2107.23445.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that there is a new twenty-five-million-dollar pool of
funding available for Fire Departments for both renovation and construction projects
which would be one hundred percent funded with no matching requirements.
Resolution 275 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the franchise agreement between the Village of Croton and Altice is due to
expire on September 3, 2024, and
WHEREAS the franchise agreement needs to be renegotiated, and
WHEREAS the Village Attorney has recommended the hiring of Special Counsel to
negotiate the new franchise agreement with Altice, and
WHEREAS Cohen Law Group has provided a proposal to assist the Village in negotiations
with Altice, and
WHEREAS the proposal includes a franchise fee audit to determine whether Altice has
paid the Village all of the franchise fee revenue to which it is entitled,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby accepts the
proposal from Cohen Law Group of Pittsburgh, PA in an amount not to exceed $14,760,
and

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 24

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign the
engagement letter with Cohen Law Group for services related to the negotiations of a
new franchise agreement with Altice, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that as funding for this expense was not included in the 20232024 General Fund budget, the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village Treasurer to
transfer from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following accounts:
A1420.4000 – Law – Contractual : $14,760
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that revenue from Franchise Fees have been on the
decline because consumers have been cutting the cord and are streaming more and it will
be interesting to see the results of the audit. Village Manager Healy advised that in the
last negotiation the Village received grants from Cablevision to upgrade our equipment
and he is hoping that we will receive additional grants in this negotiation as well.
Resolution 276 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution , as amended, was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to adopt a set of guidelines for Village Trustees in their
role as Liaisons to Village advisory and statutory boards, committees, councils and
commissions, and
WHEREAS the draft guidelines were reviewed at the December work session of the Board
of Trustees,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson Trustee Liaison Guidelines attached hereto.
GUIDELINES:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/64cab920ad42d7908102ca1a7345a5b0c500b4f5.pdf
After further discussion, and based on the recommendations from Sherry Horowitz, the
Board of Trustees agreed to amend #2 in the Guidelines from “The Liaison is expected to
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 25

attend meetings of assigned committees when possible” to “The Liaison is expected to
attend meetings of assigned committees “consistently”.
Resolution 277 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to adopt a set of member guidelines for those who serve
on advisory and statutory boards, committees, councils and commission, and
WHEREAS the draft guidelines were reviewed at the December work session of the Board
of Trustees,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board & Committee Member Guidelines attached hereto.
GUIDELINES:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/5d1d8a180f9f132038f6a76b75d1975cc8743297.pdf
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Murtaugh explained that the Board currently has no mechanism in place for
removing a non-performing or non-participatory committee member and this will give the
Board a mechanism to do so.
Resolution 278 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Service Award Program was approved by
referendum in 2003, and
WHEREAS Penflex, Inc. provides actuarial and administrative services necessary to
administer this program, and
WHEREAS the Village has received the annual Service Fee Agreement from Penflex for
the period November 1, 2023, through October 31, 2024,
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 26

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the 2023-2024 Volunteer Fire Department Service Fee Agreement in the estimated
amount of $6,900, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this agreement has been allocated in the Fire
Department - Contractual budget line A3410.4000.
Resolution 279 of 2023
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTUAGH seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton Harmon School District, the Jack O’Lantern Blaze, and Temple
Israel requested police services for various events during this fiscal year, and
WHEREAS the NYS Division of Homeland Security requested the participation of officers
in training exercises, and
WHEREAS police officers are assigned to these details to conduct traffic control, as well
as to ensure safety for residents and visitors to the Village, and
WHEREAS the aforementioned organizations have agreed to pay the cost of the overtime
for these officers,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to amend the
General Fund 2023-2024 budget in the amount of $59,816.47:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase Expense
A3120.1200
Personnel Services - Overtime

$59,816.47

GENERAL REVENUES
Increase Revenues
A1000.3089
State Aid - Other
A3120.1520
Police Fees

$7,188.59
$52,627.88

Resolution 280 of 2023

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 27

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution was
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with a 5-0
vote.
WHEREAS the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department uses firefighting foam for fire
suppression, and
WHEREAS the Village is in possession of firefighting foam that has reached the end of its
useful life and must be disposed, and
WHEREAS firefighting foam is regulated as a hazardous waste and has specific disposal
requirements, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has accepted a quote from Clean Harbors
Environmental Services, Inc. in the amount of $6,110 for the pickup and proper disposal
of the firefighting foam, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2023-2024 General Fund
budget,
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $6,110 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
accounts:
A3410.4000 – Fire – Contractual:

$6,110

DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that in 2010 when the foam was purchased it was found
not to be compatible with the equipment that the Department uses, for whatever reason
the manufacturer declined taking the foam back and it has sat in containers outside of
the Grand Street Firehouse for the past ten to twelve years. Village Manager Healy
advised that the containers are starting to deteriorate and with the completion of the
renovations, it is time to dispose of it. Village Manager Healy stated that we tried to get
the County to accept this, but they ultimately said no, and we now need to have a
company take it from us.
Trustee Simon asked if the foam is considered hazardous when it is new or is it the aging
process that is the problem.

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 28

Village Manager Healy stated that it has always been considered hazardous because of
the type of chemicals in it.
10. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS: None
11. REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT QUARTERLY REPORTS:
Justice Court
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/e0b592f4fa4dade32a006113cc7976b966709a03.pdf
Engineering Department
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/bf9580314c5ddcd4ab2f707f370bdeff834e8b9e.pdf
Public Works Department
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/427ea1a0d56b4ae6309b9f5cd19e7100ad65dcee.pdf
Parking Enforcement
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/c13b91245d5c9cea565c20bdaa38ced2cdb9ddf0.pdf
Treasurer’s Report
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/c65c70e3c092418c96a26893b91e7bf49db57f4f.pdf
Manager’s Report
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/4cf5ca8c09b950b7f9d3c9d9a36c868b10454aaf.pdf
Finance Report
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/cc9621476befec5362f6d535022a2dfc138bd46f.pdf
Clerk’s Report
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202312/5a0666b6458ecf248e78d0bfb7768e390a4d9b6c.pdf
12.

.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 29

Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
December 4, 2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Organizational Meeting held on
December 4, 2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on December 6,
2023, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
13.

REPORTS
Trustee Nicholson advised that she attended the recent Welcome Wagon
Cookie Exchange and acknowledged the Croton/Cortlandt Food Pantry and
the Croton Caring Committee for all their hard work serving our neighbors.
Trustee Simon advised that he attended the Planning Board meeting last
night, attended a Naloxone Training session at the Croton Library on
December 14th, participated in a press conference regarding new Legislation
that would allow solar energy in some of our park’s parking lots, attended
the Westchester Municipal Officials monthly meeting on December 14th
where they briefed us on NYCOM’s agenda for the coming year, he and
Trustee Nicholson attended a meeting with the Marketing Working Group of
our Business Group last Friday, attended the Pearl Harbor ceremony on
December 7th, American Legion holiday party on December 9th, Police
holiday toy drive on December 10th, the dedication of our time capsule on
December 15th,, and the firefighters parade on December 16th.
Trustee
Simon advised that Holtec has indicated that there is going to be an eightyear delay in the decommissioning process due to the Save the Hudson
Legislation and issued a check to the Village from the Rotary Club as part of
their contribution to help defray the costs of the ADA accessible swing at
Senasqua Park.
Trustee Murtaugh advised that he attended his first Zoning Board of Appeals
meeting last week where they issued a few Zoning Variances, ten days ago
a suspect was apprehended for burglaries in the Village and directed
residents to the Village’s website where they can sign up for a “surveillance

.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 30

camera registry” which could assist our Police Department if an incident
occurs in their neighborhood.
Trustee Politi advised that the library is holding a free book popup, attended
the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment meeting, and recommended
continuing discussions with regards to suggestions made by Sherry
Horowitz.
Mayor Pugh advised that the Conservation Advisory Council had a busy year
and thanked them for all that they have done. Mayor Pugh congratulated
Travis Knaggs on becoming an Eagle Scout, his project was a bridge for
hikers and walkers on the Croton Gorge Trail.
Resolution – Appointment to Police Advisory Committee.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Murtaugh the Board
of Trustees approved the following Mayoral appointments. Motion was
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Bryce Laemmel
Jim Miller
Jeff Slippen

Term expires December 2026
Term expires December 2024
Term Expires December 2025

Mayor Pugh appointed Deputy Mayor Simon as chair of the Waterfront
Advisory Council.
Trustee Simon stated that Ann Gallelli wrote the book on how to do this
properly, he has had some good training watching how Ann approached this
and looks forward to carrying on her tradition.
Village Manager Healy gave a recap of the recent storm event: the Village
had received notification on Thursday afternoon from the “Steven’s Flood
Advisory System” of a possible flood event for the following Monday, the
Village started monitoring the situation and on Friday the Village sent out an
email to all of our train station permit holders, as well as everyone on our
email subscriber list advising that flooding was expected and we strongly
encouraged people not to park in Sections H and I on Sunday night into
Monday, on Sunday morning when we realized the storm was not going to
improve we brought in DPW staff on overtime to cone off the parking lot,
we also had a solar message board active at the top of Croton Point Avenue
.

Village Board of Trustees
December 20, 2023
Page 31

indicating not to park in Sections H and I due to potential flooding,
unfortunately some people had parked in those sections anyway and while
some of those cars could have been left there from days prior, we had our
Police Department contact the owners of those cars parked along the
guardrail which is the area most susceptible to flooding to ensure that they
would be retrieving their cars before Monday morning, some people did park
in the lots that were closed and because we had a significant flood event
some vehicles sustained some damage. Village Manager Healy also advised
that we had a number of trees come down throughout the Village,
approximately thirty homes were without power and thanked our Police
Department and DPW staff for their efforts in advance of the storm as well
as during the storm event.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that it seems like the Village did a valiant effort in
notifying everyone and there is a limit to what you can do and thanked
Village Manager Healy for all his efforts.
Village Manager Healy advised that we are getting close to a draft
Telecommunications Law, Shoprite will be coming in for a renewal of their
Special Permit and we should have it on our next agenda, the Grand Street
Firehouse project has been completed, and thanked DPW General Foreman
Scott Marsh and his crew for all the hard work they did on this project.
There being no further business to come before the Board a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 9:55pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

.

