CROTON FIRE DEPARTMENT FIRE COUNCIL MEETING
Tuesday, April 30, 2024
Roll Call:
Chiefs:
Karpoff, Columbo
Wardens:
J. Streany, Feminella, Tucci, Russell, Carlino, Vlad, Delaney, Skiba, Kaplan
CFD Members: Pettit, Dunn, E. Conti,
Pledge of Allegiance
Moment of silence for deceased members
Special Order of Business: Election of replacement Fire Council Secretary
 Letter received from Fire Council Secretary John Munson, respectfully resigning his
position as Fire Council Secretary due to work and personal life commitments
 Motion to elect Kimberley Russell - Tucci, Kaplan - CARRIED
Approval of Minutes of the Previous Meeting:
 Discussion re: necessary edits not reported before tonight’s meeting
 Motion to table the approval of the March minutes until the May meeting, pending edits
discussed – Russell, Tucci - CARRIED
BILLS & COMMUNICATIONS:
 Excuses received: Sarcone, Powers, Caterino, Mayor B. Pugh, Deputy Mayor L. Simon,
Manager B. Healy - Motion to accept excuses: Vlad, Tucci – CARRIED
 Excuse received from P. Dinkler later on in the meeting and voted on separately –
Motion Delaney, Streany – CARRIED
 Letter from Fire Patrol: Babak (Bob) Ghezelayagh has been removed from the position
of Captain due to four consecutive unexcused absences from company meetings (two
months), per company bylaws. Company and Dept membership is unaffected by this
change. LT John Gheghan has become Acting Captain (informational only; action not
needed by Council)
 Ladder: PAF application for Charlotte Gilbert
o Motion to accept application – Skiba, Delaney – CARRIED
 Comment by 2081: Please forward all correspondence for future Council meetings to the
new Council Secretary. Apologies if there was anything left in the Chiefs’ Office that did
not make it to this meeting due to this change.

CHIEFS’ REPORTS:
2081 Chief Karpoff –
 Thanked members for coming out for calls and trainings
 Annual Compliance:













o Reminder: Each member must attend ONE session of Annual Compliance AND
ONE of First Aid/ CPR/ Stop the Bleed/ Narcan. If a member has not attended a
session yet, they must attend the last sessions, next week.
o Training will be at Harmon FH. All members must bring their turnout gear to
Annual Compliance training.
 CPR/ First Aid Session C – Monday, May 6th, 18:30 (6:30PM)
 Annual Compliance C – Thursday, May 9th, 18:30 (6:30PM)
Training on ESO Records Software in the works
Vehicle Extrication Training in the works for May (3-5 cars anticipated)
o Night of classroom instruction, followed by at least 2 hands on sessions (cribbing
etc, cutting). Possibly doing a live car burn with Millwood.
Annual Bailout Training – Original and Refresher in the works (refresher will hopefully
be in-house; Original likely contracted with AAA)
Updates to Driver Training Process and Paperwork – Progress
Annual Operating Budget and Capital Budget was approved by the Village
o Additional $97,000 for the expansion of LOSAP
o Electrical System Upgrades to GSFH to put elevator and HVAC on generator
o DPW to strip and rewax floors at GSFH and Harmon
o Replacement of aging rescue equipment, through capital budget, phase 1 of at
least 2
o Purchase of new turnout gear, through capital budget, phase 1 of several
o Purchase of a UTV and trailer, through capital budget
o Increases in many budget lines to cover inflation
Several grant applications in process
Overnight Standbys – Rotation Ended, Standbys still available
Safety Reminders:
o Traffic Control – no Explorers or PAFs doing traffic
o Highway Calls – no personal vehicles on highway; use IAR to communicate that
you are responding so that you don’t get left on the ramp; review proper
positioning of rigs (ex. Away from shoulder that we are operating on)
o Rail Yard Calls –
 dangerous environment with unknown challenges and moving hazards
 more knox boxes being added to their buildings
 Accountability – use tags
Acceptable Behavior and Respect for each other – maintain professional behavior and
tone at all times, both in person and online

Follow up discussion re: annual compliance requirements, and the timing thereof:
 Suggestion that the required annual compliance sessions be offered over a longer
timeframe next year, starting in January (Karpoff: already being discussed)
 Suggestion that annual compliance be offered quarterly (Karpoff: It essentially already is.
Members have to take it before June annually, but new members get more involved ‘new
member’ training later in the year as needed, which includes annual compliance content)
 Suggestion that trainings be offered on a schedule, with expanded offerings, throughout
the year



Suggestion that company officers work with their members to ensure that annual
compliance requirements are met

2082 / Asst Chief Columbo –
 Thank you for coming out for calls and trainings
 Echoing/expanding on 2081’s comments …
o PAF safety … PAFs shouldn’t be assisting with backing rigs up
o Rigs going to highway calls should have more than 1 person on them; please pick
up people at other firehouses who arrived after the rig left (check IAR)
o Accountability tags, knox IDs can be worked on without budget impact
 House Issues –
o WECO office done, bathroom done
o Grand St roof leak – not done yet
o Harmon:
 Fridge issue – working on it
 Gallagher remedied the Rescue roof leak
 Will follow up on status of garden hose for engine room
2083 / Asst Chief Caterino –
 No report
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Big Bucks Committee – (Streany)
 Reminder: Company Checks, $3000, due May 28 th
 Drawing at end of Summerfest, Sunday, June 2nd
 2083 will be the point person for the drawing itself
Parade Committee – (report given by 2081, o/b/o Hal Lockwood)
 Please contact 2081 asap if your rig wants to attend a parade
 Save the Dates (and which rigs have signed up so far):
o Montrose, June 1, 2024 – R18, E119
o Summerfest, June 2, 2024 – all rigs
o Yorktown, June 26, 2024 – T10
o Ossining, August 2, 2024 (*also the WCVFA Convention Parade) – R18, T10,
E120
 Reminder: companies are responsible for uniform hardware and hat badges. Order asap,
so you have what you need for the parades!
Explorers – (J. Delaney)
 Per Village Mgr Healy: we have to re-charter, per legal counsel




$1,465 check needed to recharter
o Motion to cut a check for the requested amount - Vlad, Feminella – CARRIED
Trainings will be once a month, meeting once a month. Schedule TBD

Membership Benefits – (T. Kaplan)
 Committee hasn’t met again since last meeting, and hasn’t received any return
correspondence from the village yet
 Hope to have an update for next Council meeting
 2081: reminder that members are already approved for free village parks ID
Related discussion re: department IDs
 Question asked about getting long overdue dept IDs
 Suggestion: we move to RFIDs, if we’re going to be moving forward with Dept IDs
Apparatus Committees –
 TL 44 – paperwork signed, progress
 M12 – progress
o see 4/23/24 update email from Karpoff for details
o anticipated late summer delivery
o Feminella confirmed that we will have a slip available
 E119 – (Streany) progress … list made for what they want to go look at
 E120 – (Delaney) progress … discussions ongoing
Fire Fair / Fire Prevention – (T. Kaplan)
 Committee will meet Tue May 14th
 Save the date: October 6, 2024
Annual Fund Drive – (report read by 2081 o/b/o T. Dinkler)
 Donations slowing down, as expected for this time of year
 Reminder mailing going out after Summerfest to avoid conflict with Big Bucks
LOSAP Committee – (report read by 2081 o/b/o T. Dinkler)
 The 2023 Points Report has been returned to the Village for final approval by the Board
 The Mayor must now sign off on the numbers and return the package to Penflex
 2023 is the final year of the original program, 2024 points count to the revised program
accruing $30.00 a month credit toward a maximum of 40 years of credit
 Current total numbers for participants are being published monthly to the Department
Web Site. Members wishing more detailed information may log into their ESO Accounts
for a breakdown of points earned.

Audit Committee – (Powers)
 No report
Council Meeting Zoom / AV Equipment Committee – (Kaplan, Karpoff)
 Meeting soon
 Zoom should be available for May meeting
By-Law Committee – (Powers)
 No report
UNFINISHED BUSINESS:
 Fire Council Budget for 2024 – tabled for next month; Treasurer not present
 OSHA “Emergency Responder” proposed standard
o Comment Period extended into May
o Draft CFD Comment written, revised, to be submitted soon
 Department Bylaws – need clarifying for: (tabled to next meeting)
o Member in good standing
o Life Members who aren’t active
o Exterior FFs and Fire Police
 Discussion re: a need for auditing the accuracy of membership files
o During a brief examination of member files, numerous people were identified
who ….
 Either: did not fulfill call quota for the period of 1 year or 2 years, but who
were not issued warnings or called before Council to appeal membership
termination
 1 Year: Rocco Capicotti, Timothy Farrell, Brad Kennedy, Samuel
Peloso, Matthew Stewart
 2 Year: Robbie Perez, Kendall McLachlan-Gajadhar, Ivan Ozaruk,
Rob Pappas
 And/or: did not complete annual compliance requirements
 And/or: have not provided proof of ICS 100, 700 completion
 And/or: should have been on ‘leave’ status instead of ‘Active’
o 2081: during the switchover to the new system, a separate spreadsheet was being
kept, which likely has more accurate information
o 2081: going forward, access to membership files should be limited to specific
people. We will perform a comprehensive audit of membership files for accuracy
in June.
o 2082: Wardens should be bringing any status changes within their companies to
the next Council meeting following the change, to ensure that status changes are
recorded in a timely manner
o Suggestion to establish some deadlines for the data entry process into the new
system, to ensure timely progress

o Related discussion re: members who are on our roster who don’t participate, the
resources allocated to them, and the importance of enforcing our bylaws re:
member expectations when they don’t meet them
NEW BUSINESS:
 New member introduction: Jim Pettit of Harmon Engine came to introduce himself to
Council. He is a former member, and has several family members who have been
involved with the Dept over the years. He still has his old badge from when he was
previously a member (badge 1040)
 E. Conti: asked about the process for getting new members in IAR; suggested having
more people capable of doing this
 Streany: asked about reminding members to adhere to SOGs. Karpoff will send out a
dept reminder to adhere to SOGs.
 Due to a change in NYS tax law for charities and non-profits, we need to establish 501c3
status for Fire Council (separate from COHFD’s). Discussion re: how to begin process.
o Motion for 2081 to send an email to membership to request assistance with
creating a 501c3 for Fire Council, using any in-house (member) expertise
available - Skiba, Tucci - CARRIED
Report of the Treasurer – (read by 2081, o/b/o Treasurer P. Dinkler)
Motion to adjourn – Vlad, Tucci – CARRIED.

Respectfully submitted,
Fire Council Recording Secretary
Kimberley Russell

