Planning Board Meeting Minutes
February 20th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 20th, 2024 to order at 8:04 p.m.

2.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Hannigan, Tom - 52 Upland Lane (67.8-2-1) Minor Site Plan Application & Associated
Approvals for New House

Homeowner Tom Hannigan was present in support of the application and expressed appreciation for the
level of engagement from the Planning Board. The applicant provided background information stating
that his family first came to Upland Lane in 2010, and spent 10 years restoring a home and surrounding
property. In 2021, the applicant sold the home and a five-acre plot, retaining seven acres where they
plan to build the home in question, a "glass box in the woods." The applicant worked with Joe Riina of
Site Design Consultants to find the best spot for their new home that caused minimal disruption to the
land.
The applicant has hired Steven Marino, Principal, Sr. Environmental Planner, Wetland Ecologist of Tim
Miller Associates, Inc. The challenge remains that a portion of this property is in the Town of Cortlandt,
and a portion in the Village of Croton. The applicant reports that the Town is math focused with a
formula as to how many trees will need to be replanted, and the applicant is trying to see how this will
apply to his project. There is currently very dense tree coverage with a lot of small trees. The applicant
presented a photo of a 1926 aerial view of the property that was not as developed, the applicant went on
to state that most of the proposed disturbance will occur in areas that were historically cleared.
Currently, there is a heavily wooded second growth forest with poor understory. There are
approximately 750-800 trees. The applicant is proposing to remove approximately 312 trees.
Sav A Tree was hired by the Town of Cortlandt, and their report stated that 37% of the trees are black
birch which is "Atypical," indicative of a second growth. Many the trees are non-native species. There
are only a few large trees with 15 trees being 24" or larger. Of the 312 trees recommended for removal,
269 trees are in the line of disturbance. Of the 312 trees, 61 are dead or in poor condition. The trees
proposed for cutting are either within three feet of the proposed driveway and necessary grading, ten
feet of the proposed septic system, or ten feet from the proposed residence.
The applicant showed a map which identified three locations on the property where he could add some
replacement trees, on the northern border of the property, on the border with the power lines and around
the new home, where he could add some evergreens. On the steep slopes, the plan would be for native
plants and mixed grass. Chairman Luntz asked about the evergreen screening and the applicant will
ask for more details from Steve Marino of Tim Miller Associates. Eva Thaddeus asked how many trees

1

he was planning to plant, and the applicant did not have an answer. The applicant is trying to work with
the Town of Cortlandt and fulfill their requirements, but it is difficult with this particular property.
The applicant stated that he is looking for guidance on how to move forward with the Town of Cortlandt.
Dan O'Connor suggested that there is an area around the house that they will probably landscape, so he
should start to put a landscape plan together and build from there. The Planning Board suggested that
the applicant present a plan to Town of Cortlandt and see what they come back with. Regarding the
replacement trees, Eva Thaddeus wondered if they could be donated to another site.
The applicant will need to submit a bond for the landscaping that will be done in the Croton on Hudson
portion of the project.

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Referral from Village Board to review Draft Local Law Introductory 3 of 2024, to repeal
Chapter 66, Adult Entertainment Use Businesses, of the Village Code, and add
regulations related to Adult Entertainment Use Businesses to Chapter 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code, and to update definitions related to same.

Chairman Luntz explained that the recommendation is to move the law out of the Village Code and into
the Zoning Code. You can not outlaw the existence of these establishments, but as in the Village Code,
the Zoning Code will only allow such an establishment in the Light Industrial District, by special permit.
Steve Krisky wanted to make sure that the code could not be used to eliminate certain progressive
activities in town and Len Simon said that they resolved this by revising the definition of adult
entertainment. It was noted that Village Attorney Linda Whitehead reviewed the language.
The Planning Board recommends the local law as written.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes February 6th, 2024

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 6th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with John Ghegan being absent.

5.

ENGINEER'S REPORT

-There are no new updates regarding the Design Center on Albany Post Road. Dan O'Connor will send
the property owner a letter advising him that he will need to come back to the Planning Board for
Amended Site Plan approval.
-Steve Krisky reported that the Bike and Pedestrian Committee was discussing the sidewalk near Maple
Commons. After looking at the approved plans, it shows that there was no safety island, only striping
when you cross Municipal Place. The light will have to be timed to give people time enough to cross the
street, but that could be years away. There is a slip turn or turn lane from Maple Street to Municipal
Place that could be dangerous for pedestrians crossing. Dan O'Connor said that it was set up for
pedestrians to use the crosswalk to go over to Van Wyck Plaza, walk down a bit, and then cross back
over Maple Street where there is another crosswalk. This section of Maple Street is a state road.
-Regarding 25 South Riverside Avenue, the contractor is currently removing fill from behind the existing
wall. There was an "as-built" change in the sewer line, so the Health Department wanted to reapprove a
new plan for the sanitary sewer system. The plan is with the Health Department right now, for the sewer
that was put in with one manhole added. They are waiting for test results and Health Department
approvals. Dan O'Connor will work on the easement with DPW and the Village Manager, and the Health

2

Department will want the easement filed. The developer submitted plans for the foundation, but we are
awaiting insurance information and payment before reviewing the foundation plans.
-There are no new updates regarding the Special Permit for ShopRite and the parking lot improvements.

6.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:25 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
**Minutes approved, as amended, March 5th , 2024, by a vote of 5 -0.**

3

