VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON
MINUTES OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS MEETING
THURSDAY, JULY 11th, 2024
PRESENT:

Christine Wagner, Chairperson
James Tuman
Daron Weber
Doug Olcott
Rocco Mastronardi

ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, Assistant Engineer P.E.
1.

CALL TO ORDER

Chairperson Wagner called the Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting to order on June 11th, 2024 at 8:04pm.

2.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Vara, Michael, Owner-34 Cleveland Drive-Located in RA-9 1-Family Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot
10. Request for a side yard variance and height variance from Village Zoning Code Section 23040A(1) for an existing detached garage and new dormer.

PRESENT: Michael Vara, Owner
Chairperson Wagner asked the applicant to introduce himself and provide a brief description as to why he
was before the Board. Mr. Vara introduced himself as the owner of the property and stated that he was
there to legalize the height of the pre-existing garage on his property. Mr. Vara further explained that the
alterations to the garage were made (with proper permits) in 2002 and the garage was issued a certificate
of occupancy but he later learned the side yard setback and height went against current zoning regulations
and therefore was requesting a height variance. Mr. Vara added that he amended his ZBA application to
include a variance request to include the construction of a new, additional dormer on the garage.
The Board asked if the requested variances reflected the new proposed dormer. Mr. Wegner, Assistant
Village Engineer, explained that the parameters of the variances being requested would not change as the
new dormer would not be increasing the original height of the garage or impacting the side yard setback.
Mr. Wegner reiterated that the only change would be “in the bulk” of the existing structure not in the size
or height therefore not changing the requests.
The Board asked Mr. Vara the reason for wanting to add another dormer. Mr. Vara responded that a typical
2 car garage would be 24’ft but the existing garage is 21’ft and explained that he would like to add the
dormer to create an office space above and with only 1 dormer he would not have the headroom to have
an office. Mr. Wegner then raised the point that Mr. Vara could possibly apply for the garage to be an
Accessory Dwelling Unit in the future and if so, he would have to come back to the Board for a variance
to allow an ADU. While there was some discussion as to what the variance request may be for a future
1

ADU however the Board noted and re-focused on the variance request that was presently before
them. Mr. Vara then stated that he did not feel he wanted an ADU at the present time because he believed
it would be too small and too tight to create a dwelling unit.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the public hearing. There being no comment from the public, the
hearing was closed.
The Board agreed that Mr. Vara’s situation was due to an administrative oversight from the engineering
department at the time of construction. It was noted that the height of the existing garage and new
proposed dormer would not negatively impact anyone’s view of the river. The Board also agreed that the
pictures submitted by the applicant were helpful and that the topography of the lot lessens the visual
impact of the garage. The Board further noted that the new, proposed dormer would not be higher than
the existing dormer and agreed that the proposed design and existing garage is attractive and would not
have a negative impact on the neighborhood. It was added that no neighbor opposition had been received.
The Board discussed and reviewed the 5 Factors:

1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby properties
will be produced by the granting of the variance.

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the requested
variance;

3. The requested variance is substantial but mitigated by the structure’s location and the
topography which lessens the visual impact;

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district;

5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Olcott made a motion to grant a side yard variance of 0.2’ft and a height variance
of 6’ft for an existing detached garage and new rear dormer. Seconded by Mr. Tuman. All in
favor. Roll Call: Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Mr.
Mastronardi, yes.

3. NEW BUSINESS

a) Hertlein, Wesley, Owner-44 Elmore Ave-Located in RA-5 1-Family Residential District and
designated on the Tax Maps of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.9 Block 9 Lot
2

25. Request for a front yard, side yard, and rear yard variance from Village Zoning Code
Section 230-33A for an existing primary structure (house) and attached garage.
PRESENT: Wes Hertlein
Mr. Hertlein introduced himself to the Board as the property owner and shared that he was seeking 3
variances to legalize the existing house and attached garage on his property. Mr. Hertlein explained that
he purchased the house in 2008 and was now selling the property. Mr. Hertlein stated he was not aware of
the setback issues when he purchased the house in 2008 and learned of the house and garage did not meet
zoning requirements when the buyers’ and their lawyer called the Village Engineering Department to
review the file. Mr. Hertlein shared that the survey the Board was looking at was from 2007 (prior to
purchase). Mr. Hertlein explained that the front yard variance request is for the house as the setback
should be 15'ft and is 15’ft from one corner but the other corner to the property line is 14.9’ft and
therefore is requesting a .1’ft front yard variance. Mr. Hertlein added that the side yard variance request
is a little more substantial as the setback should be 8’ft and the garage is 7.3ft and is asking for a .7ft side
yard for that. The applicant then stated that the tougher variance is the rear yard which on that lot the
zoning requirement is a setback of 25’ft with the house facing Elmore Ave it is impossible to have a rear
yard setback of 25’ft and a front yard setback of 15’ft unless one was to turn the house around or knock it
down but as it exists there is only a 4’ft setback from the rear property line. Mr. Hertlein discussed the
surrounding homes in the neighborhood noting that there are many homes with less than 25’ft rear yard
setbacks and garages that abut property lines so it is keeping with the neighborhood.
Mr. Hertlein stated that while he purchased the house with garage as is, he wanted to get the variances for
the buyers, who plan to do renovations so that they essentially do not need to knock down the house and
rebuild within the setback requirements. The Board asked Mr. Wegner, Assistant Village Engineer if the
garage was considered part of the house because it was connected with a breezeway (roof). Mr. Wegner
confirmed it was. The Board then noted the setback requirement would only be 5’ft for the garage if it
was not attached as it would be considered an accessory structure. Mr. Wegner added the garage was
built somewhere between 1952 and 1967 and if the garage had been constructed under the 1931 code that
still ruled in 1951, the setback requirements would have been less. The Board asked for clarification on
what had a certificate of occupancy. Mr. Wegner explained that the house received a certificate of
occupancy and the garage was built later (exact year unclear) without proper documentation so even if
granted a variance, the garage would still need to be legalized with a building permit and receive a
certificate of occupancy. The Board reviewed the requests, stating the front yard variance was for the
house and the side yards and rear yard variances would be for the garage noting the garage is more of the
issue.
Chairperson Wagner then opened the public hearing. With no one being heard, the public hearing was
closed. Chairperson Wagner then asked for comment and thoughts from the Board.
The Board acknowledged the neighbor letters of support that were submitted with the application and that
there was no neighbor/public opposition to the variance requests. Additionally, the Board noted that the
house and attached garage had existed as was on the property for 60 years and there had never been a
complaint during the applicants’ occupancy of the home. The Board further noted that the only reason as
to why the variance request for the existing garage would be considered substantial is because it was
attached to the main structure.
After discussion on the application, the Board reviewed the 5 Factors:
1. No undesirable change in the character of the neighborhood nor detriment to nearby
properties will be produced by the granting of the variance, in part as it appears the
property has remained the same for approximately 61 years.
3

2. The benefit sought by the applicant cannot be achieved by a method other than the
requested variance;

3. The requested variance is substantial in terms of the rear yard variance;

4. The proposed variance will not have an adverse effect or impact on the physical or
environmental conditions in the neighborhood or district;

5. The difficulty alleged by the applicant was not self-created.

MOTION: Mr. Tuman made a motion to grant that a front yard variance of 0.1’ft, a side yard variance of
0.7’ft and a rear yard variance of 20.5’ft for an existing structure (house) and attached garage. Seconded
by Mr. Weber. All in Favor. Mr. Tuman, yes, Mr. Weber, yes, Chairperson Wagner, yes, Mr. Olcott, yes,
Mr. Mastronardi, yes.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
All meeting minutes were approved with noted edits.
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes of April 11th, 2024. Seconded by Mr. Tuman.
All in favor. The motion was carried by a vote of 5-0.
Chairperson Wagner made a motion to approve the minutes of May 9th 2024
Seconded by Mr. Mastronardi. All in favor. The motion was carried by a vote of 4-0. (Mr. Olcott
abstained due to absence).
Chairperson Wager made a motion to approve the minutes of June 13th 2024
Seconded by Mr. Olcott. All in favor. The motion was carried by a vote of 3-0. (Mr. Weber and Mr.
Weber abstained, absent).
5. DISCUSSION
The Board decided to postpone the discussion on the Adoption of Zoning Board of Appeals Rules and
Procedures.
The Board discussed and agreed to move regularly scheduled Zoning Board of Appeals meetings to the 4th
Tuesday of every month at 7:00 p.m. as Thursdays were causing conflict for some Board members. It
was determined that the next meeting would be held on Tuesday, September 24, 2024 at 7:00pm.
6. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business before the Board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:32pm.

Respectfully Submitted by,
4

Stefanie Correale
Secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals

5

