Planning Board Meeting Minutes
August 6, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

0 ffl@mi

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Taryn Ramey, Asst. Village Attorney

\

ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of April 2nd, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.
a)

NEW BUSINESS
Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review a Special Permit Application from
Sprocket Power for an integrated energy system to be installed at Croton Auto Park at 1
Municipal Place (79. 12-3-2)

Maria Fields, CEO and Cofounder of Sprocket Power and Peter Fazio, Project Manager at Sprocket
Power, were present in support of the application. The Project originated from auto dealers needing to
electrify their fleets and the electric vehicle charger is required by the auto manufacturer, Stellantis, to be
authorized to sell electric vehicles. The special permit use is for the battery which is 280 kWh, above the
200-kWh threshold. The other components of the project require only a building permit. Maria Fields
reported that both Con Edison and NY State were in favor of the project. Maria Fields stated that the
project will provide clean energy and elevate the local grid. The system, called a Managed Microgrid
consists of several components including electric vehicle charging that is one fast charger and two wall
mount chargers, one new utility transformer and a step-down transformer, a solar canopy that is 20 x 24
feet, with 20 kW DC output, a battery energy storage system (BESS) and the associated electrical
combiner panel. The equipment will be surrounded by a 7-foot fence. The Planning Board questioned the
location of all the equipment as it is right on the corner of Municipal Place and South Riverside Avenue.
The Planning Board asked Maria Fields if there was another spot on the property where the system could
operate, maybe further back on the site. Maria Fields said that Con Ed will need to upgrade the service
to the car dealership due to the increase in power requirements, so Con Ed is saying where they will put
the transformer. Maria Fields noted that there is a similar project in Bedford with the equipment along a
commercial road and offered that a possibility would be to have some a community art project to improve
the aesthetics.
The aesthetics are a problem for the Planning Board. Maria Fields asked if more plantings would be of
interest to the Planning Board, and the Planning Board answered no. The Planning Board asked if the
size of the equipment could be reduced.
The Planning Board reviewed the following objectives and goals:

A: The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.

1

The battery system will need to meet the NYS fire code and national electric code. This project involves a
system with a large power supply. The Planning Board will ask the Croton on Hudson Fire Department to
review the plans during site plan approval.
B: The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in
conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The Village has a Comprehensive Plan (see attached) and zoning code that calls the area where this project
is located a Gateway District and the Planning Board believes that this project is in conflict with the
comprehensive plan and zoning code as the equipment is located in the front yard in front of the business
and is unsightly and not consistent with the purpose of the Gateway District as indicated in the zoning code
sections below. The Planning Board recommends that the BESS and other equipment be relocated out of
the front yard to another location on the property such as near the proposed solar canopy car port and level
3 charger.

230-20.1A: Croton-on-Hudson's commercial gateways are the major entry
points from surrounding municipalities and roads. The physical gateway
areas are comprised of the roads and surrounding properties a motorist or
pedestrian encounters when first entering the Village. These areas create a
sense of arrival and connection to the Village, and establish an image and
initial impression of the community.
230-20.1C: The purpose of the Gateway Overlay District is to establish
standards that upgrade the image and function of gateway areas, strengthen
the overall visual identity of the Village, and improve pedestrian linkages to
adjacent residential neighborhoods.
230-20.. 2A(2): Municipal Place Shopping Area, consisting of lots on the north
and south sides of Municipal Place between Route 9 and Maple Street, and
the commercially zoned portion of the block on the east side of Maple Street,
and the lots located between Route 9 and South Riverside Avenue from the
Village-owned parcel to the north to the intersection of Maple and South
Riverside to the south ... The Municipal Place Shopping Area is an important
entrance to the Village from Route 9. It connects to the Upper Village via
Maple Street and to the surrounding neighborhoods.
The zoning setbacks are met.

C: The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the
pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account the
location, and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or conducted in
connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The Planning Board noted a lot of electrical equipment adjacent to the sidewalk and will be looking for
clarification of the safety of this plan. Again, it is recommended that the BESS and other equipment be
relocated out of the front yard to another location on the property such as near the proposed solar canopy
car port and level 3 charger.

2

D: The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of walls
and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and buildings
and their appropriate development.

The area where the BESS and associated equipment is proposed is highly visible from the sidewalk and
South Riverside Ave. The location of the proposed BESS and associated equipment, including the sevenfoot-high chain link fence and in its current proposed location is not compatible with the Comprehensive
Plan and purpose of the Gateway District.
E: The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.

The preservation of ecological assets is not applicable to this application.

Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience:
John McKean of 25 Prospect Place was first to speak and said that the technical presentation was
insufficient and that he is very concerned. Riverside Ave is a State Road, "Does it meet the setback
requirements under state code and setback requirements of the Village?" John McKean asked. John
McKean stated that an electrical engineer needed to look at the project.
Gary Eisinger of 210 Cleveland Drive was next to speak and he is concerned about cars turning right onto
South Riverside Avenue and their ability to see pedestrians and that this project may hinder pedestrians.
The applicant stated that this project has been going on for 18 months, there is an interconnection process
with Con Ed, so this has been combed over and Con Ed decides the rules. In response to some questions,
the applicant stated that this is a three-phase system, the zoning setback is 1O feet and that is being met.
The applicant stated that moving the equipment to another location on the property would be more
expensive and said that this is a climate friendly project for the town. Chairman Luntz said that the project
seems efficient, the location that they have chosen for the equipment is not the best spot. The Planning
Board understood that the transformer may have to stay where Con Ed wanted to put it, but everything else
should move and if it did, the Planning Board would support the project. The Planning Board will make a
recommendation to the Village Board. In conclusion the Planning Board believes that is a positive project
that will provide a 20kWDC solar car port canopy system with a 280 kWh Battery Energy Storage System
and one level 3 and two level 2 Electrical Vehicle chargers. However, the Planning Board strongly
recommends that the BESS and other equipment be relocated out of the front yard to another location on
the property such as near the proposed solar canopy car port and level 3 charger.
b) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review a Special Permit Application from Ryan
Kao of CTRH LLC, to construct a three-story mixed-use building at 325 South Riverside Ave.
(79-13-1-60)
Architect JB Hernandez was present in support of the application. The proposal is for a three-story
mixed-use building with commercial space in the first floor (Save-Mor Pharmacy), commercial/office
space on the second floor with the potential for future addition of an additional residential unit) and two
apartments (1400 square-feet and 950 square feet) on the third floor. The proposal allows for 20 parking
spaces, one more than the required 19. Landscaping will be provided as shown of the plans. The
entrance to the building will be on Oneida Avenue. The footprint of the new building is approximately

3

50% larger than the existing one. The applicant plans to use stone panels and brick on the facade to fit
into the residential area . No one will work in the basement. A zoning variance will be required to meet
the setback requirements .
The Planning Board suggested a break in the landscaping for pedestrian access and the applicant was
amenable to this suggestion . The Planning Board also asked for clarification on the colors of the building
as they appeared different in different renderings on the plans. The Planning Board felt that the signage
was wrong, and that maybe a canopy could be added . The Planning Board suggested that the applicant
take some cues from Capriccios Pizza and Baked by Susan, and soften the architecture.
There was a discussion regarding the flow of traffic and the possibility of using the South Riverside
Avenue curb cut or possibly reconfiguring the parking lot so that there was a separate entrance and exit
on Oneida Avenue. The applicant will make some changes and present them to the Planning Board.
The Planning Board also requested a write up on the fact that the building is in a Gateway Overlay Zoning
District.
The Planning Board reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and found that under "C. Coastal
Assessment 1, where Yes is checked, it should be explained under the Remarks section that the entire
Village is in a coastal area.
The Planning Board reviewed the five factors for the Special Permit application, and their comments can
be found a memo to the Village Board.

A: The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The property is served by the Croton-on-Hudson Fire and Police Departments. Its location at the
intersection of South Riverside Avenue and Oneida Avenue provides sufficient accessibility to the proposed
structure. The proposed mixed-use building will have a fire sprinkler system installed as required by Village
Code. A fire hydrant is located directly across the street.

B: The compatibility of the location, size, and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in
conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The Planning Board suggests that the architecture should be softened and the signage redesigned to fit in
with the character of the neighborhood. The Planning Board suggested that the applicant look at the
Capriccios Pizza and Baked by Susan Bakery and take cues from their aesthetics.

C: The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the
pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account the
location, and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or conducted in
connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The Planning Board believes that there should be an adjustment relative to parking and access to parking .
The Planning Board discussed possibly having separate entrances and exits and suggested that the
applicant consider employee parking at another location to leave the proposed 15 parking spaces for the
commercial space for customers of the pharmacy. The Planning Board recommends that different optional
conceptual onsite parking and traffic flow configurations be provided for review such as, a one-way entrance
off
South
Riverside
Avenue
and
exit
onto
Oneida
Avenue,
etc.

4

The Planning Board recommends that pedestrian walkways from the sidewalk on South Riverside Avenue
to the proposed entrance be enhanced with special attention being given to the streetscape along South
Riverside Avenue and Oneida Avenue.
The applicant will also need to apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a front yard and side yard setback
variances.

D: The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of walls
and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and buildings
and their appropriate development.
With the existing proposal, some trees are being lost. This is something that will need to addressed during
site plan review. The Planning Board noted that all existing trees should be shown on the site plan as trees
along the property line with Capriccios Pizza are not shown on the site plan.

E: The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
As stated above, the Planning Board asks that all existing trees be shown on the site plan and will be paying
attention to any that will possibly need to be removed.
The Planning Board reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and found that under "C. Coastal
Assessment 1, where Yes is checked, it should be explained under the Remarks section that the entire
Village is in a coastal area.
The Planning Board reviewed the Environmental Assessment Form and notes that under #6 that the
proposed building may not be consistent with the predominant character of the existing built ... landscape.
Steve Krisky made a motion to accept the Village Board of Trustees acting as Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes, seconded by Geoff Haynes and the motion carried, 5-0
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience:
Erica Laudon of 124 Penfield Avenue and 68 Young Ave voiced concerns about parking on Young
Avenue and wants to make sure that there is a plan for employee parking. A question was raised if
employees could park across the street at the firehouse. Dan O'Connor will look into the parking permit
regulations on the neighboring streets and permitted employee parking at the Wayne Street Firehouse.
Patrons going into the pharmacy will have to follow street parking regulations if they do not park in the
parking lot.
John McKean of 25 Prospect Place says that the Village seniors often meet at the Wayne Street
Firehouse, so this may not be a good spot for employee parking. John McKean also questioned the
height of the building with mechanical equipment on the roof. It was reported that, by Village Code,
mechanicals are allowed to be on rooftops. John McKean also questioned an observation deck proposed
on the roof but this was not proposed or suggested by the applicant. Lastly, John McKean stated that the
application does not meet the setback requirements of the zoning code and that looking at non-compliant
applications is inappropriate.

5

Gary Eisinger of 210 Cleveland Drive asked if the three-foot parapet was shown on the rendering. The
plans were checked and the parapet was shown to be 30 inches, maybe a little shorter than the required
height.
Tony Granger, a Half Moon Bay resident requested that Planning Board member Geoff Haynes recuse
himself from decision making on this application due to a conflict of interest as he is on the Croton
Housing Network Board. Geoff Haynes responded that he is the treasurer of the Croton Housing
Network, and is very involved in the community. Geoff Haynes has been the Commodore of the Croton
Yacht Club and a hockey coach. Prior to this Planning Board meeting, Geoff Haynes spoke to the Village
Attorney to ask if she saw a conflict. The Village Attorney spoke to Village Manager Bryan Healy and
they determined that if any Croton Housing Network business came before the Planning Board, Geoff
Haynes would recuse himself. The applications before the Planning Board currently are not Croton
Housing Network applications. If a decision is made that Geoff Haynes should recuse himself, he will be
happy to do so.
c) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review a Special Permit Application from WPB
Development LC to construct a 100-unit residential building located at 1-3 Croton Point
Avenue and Parking Lot A (79.17-1-3,4,5)
Jim Wendling, of WPB Development, Rich Williams, P.E., of lnsite Engineering, Michale Bevivino of
Arketkcher, and Jan Johannessen of KSCJ Consultants were present in support of the application. Jim
Wendling described WPB Development as a fully integrated (they develop, build, and manage their
properties) Westchester based development firm.
Jim Wendling reported that their firm has a history in Croton as they did both the Arrowcrest and
Westwind developments. Regarding the proposed site at 1-3 Croton Point Avenue, Jim Wendling
believes that it is under-utilized, transit oriented and zoning compliant. At this time, the units are
proposed to be affordable condominiums, which is a state program that sets prices at 80% area medium
income and eligible households can go up to 100% area medium income. There are 100 units in the
building, 46 one-bedroom and 54 two-bedroom units. They expect high demand.
Rich Williams, P.E. of lnsite Engineering said that the site is on 1.76 acres which access from Croton
Point Avenue. Rich Williams said that there is a traffic light at the entrance to the property, there will be
outdoor parking and the lot descends in grade to in indoor parking. There is a trash room inside the
building and a small gravel area which the sewer pump station which connects to the sewer system on
Croton Point Avenue. Rich Williams says that there is a net decrease in impervious surface on the site,
they are providing storm water treatment, which is not currently done, so there should be a decrease in
runoff from the property. There are no steep slopes, no wetlands and the developers will be creating
additional green space. They have access to both sides of the building and will meet fire code for fire
access and the building will have sprinklers. There are zoning compliant and believe that they fit in to the
area. They also have a traffic consultant who will work with the Village's traffic consultant.
Michael Bevivino of Arketkcher was next to speak. Michael Bevivino lives in Ossining and spends a lot of
time in Croton. He reports that the project meets the transit-oriented developmenUlight industrial zoning
code requirements, the building is proposed to be five stories with one- and two-bedroom units, there are
robust indoor and exterior amenities including a co-working lounge, fitness center, bike room, community
room and roof deck. For the exterior of the building, they took inspiration from the train stations along the
Hudson River and chose a brick facade, with a big canopy in front of the front door and set the front of the
building down four stories to mitigate the visual impact. The back portion of the building is clad in metal
panels. Both facades were chosen to maximize the view, increase the natural light and mitigate sound

6

concerns. It is a fully electric building, solar ready with high efficiency HVAC. They also looked for any
opportunity to bring green space to a space that is 100% asphalt now, including a pocket park in the front
of the building.
Steve Krisky went on record to say that he did business with Bill Balter (WPB Development) twenty years
ago.
When asked about the height of the building, the applicant stated that it is approximately 10 feeU per
story with the ground floor being taller, so approximately 58 feet. The Village will determine the setbacks.
The building will be solar ready, and their business model is to do solar on all their buildings. When
asked about glare coming from solar panels, they said that they would look into it. It was noted that
Village Code requires that all solar panels have an antireflective coating to reduce glare.
The Croton Harmon Fire Department has a tower ladder. The Planning Board will refer this application to
the Croton Harmon Fire Dept for review. When asked about extra fire protection in the bike room for ebicycles, the applicant said that that was a good point to consider.
Regarding visibility from the nearest residential homes, the building will be tucked in, mostly blocked by
Route 9. There is a row of trees along the Route 9 exit ramp that will remain.
The water and waste water engineering report presented two different flows, a maximum daily flow, and
an average daily flow design. The average flow was about 8000 gallons per day and that is the number
that the waste water treatments were designed. Wastewater will gravity feed to an on-site sewer pump
station which connects into a sewer force main on Croton Point Avenue which pumps up to South
Riverside Avenue and then gravity flows to a county owned waste water treatment plant which has
excess capacity available for this project.
The applicants were asked if the Community Room in the building could be made accessible to all
community residents and the applicant stated that no, that is not how it was proposed, but they would
look into it.
The applicants were also asked if Croton residents could be given priority access to these units and the
applicant stated that if Westchester County is involved with the funding, they require a nine-county
outreach. Preferences are difficult to do. If it were possible, they would look at prioritizing Croton
residents.
Chairman Luntz asked for some clarification on the business model. The applicant explained that Croton
zoning code requires that a new development have 10% affordable units. When the RFP went out for this
project, 20% of the units were required to be affordable. As proposed, this development is to be a 100%
affordable condominium with units selling at prices based on 80% of the area median income (AMI) for
Westchester County to households with income levels up to 100% AMI. There are rules for reselling the
units. To purchase a unit, you must qualify for a mortgage. There would be a lottery system for the
applicants that would be televised. There would be HOAs and other fees as with other condominiums.
The development company would control three of the five board seats of the condominium. The HOA
rates would go up every year. When asked how many school-aged children they anticipated, the
applicant said that their consulting firm, KSCJ Consulting are working with the Village's consultants.
Regarding limits on how many people can live in each apartment, NY State has rules that we do not know
off the top of our heads. The Planning Board's recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees to pay

7

special attention to the SEQRA report, including the estimated number of school children and the traffic
study. The applicant has hired a noise consultant.
The Planning Board reviewed the five factors for the Special Permit application, and their comments can
be found a memo to the Village Board.
A: The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The Planning Board would refer the application to the Croton on Hudson Fire Department to review.
There were questions as to Groton's volunteer fire department's ability to keep the building and residents
safe due to the height of the building. The Planning Board would also like to hear about safety measures
for the potential storage of E-bikes in the bicycle storage area.

B: The compatibility of the location, size, and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in
conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The proposed five-story building is zoning compliant in the Transit-Oriented Development in Light
Industrial (LI) District in which it is located, by Special Permit.

C: The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the
pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account the
location, and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or conducted in
connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The Planning Board would like to see a more in-depth traffic study and would also like to hear how the
impact to commuter traffic would be mitigated during construction. The Planning Board is concerned
about the impact of the increase in traffic and questioned if 103 parking spots is sufficient for resident
parking for the proposed 100 residential units.

D: The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of
walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and
buildings and their appropriate development.
The project is not adjacent to a residential neighborhood. The Planning Board asked if the applicant
would consider this project on a smaller scale (fewer apartments and fewer than five stories). There is
concern about the Village's handling the increase in school children, increased traffic, and potentially
increased taxes for current residents to fund affordable development.
E: The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The preservation of ecological assets is not applicable to this project.

The Planning Board would also like to hear if there was a way to prioritize Croton families in the mix of
potential residents.
Overall, the Planning Board thinks that this is a good location and design for the apartment building, but
the project, as proposed is too large for the Village when you factor in the increased traffic, increased

8

number of school children, and concern that this particular project, all affordable, would not prioritize
Croton residents.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to accept the Village Board of Trustees acting as Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes, seconded by John Ghegan and the motion carried, 5-0
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience:
Ed Riley of Truesdale Drive was first to speak. Ed Riley stated that this proposal does not fit into the
Village of Groton's master plan. This proposal is ugly and it does not fit in. This will increase the size of
Croton by 1000-2000 people. There is a petition, signed by 12% of the voting population against this
development. Ed Riley would also like to have elections moved back to March and he would also like to
see a moratorium on large projects, over six units. Mr. Riley would like to rewrite or amend the Village's
master plan. Mr. Riley believes a 33-unit building would work at 1-3 Croton Point Ave., not this size.
Sara Cucinelli of Whelan Avenue spoke and says that she has managed over one billion dollars and has
advised some of the best investors in the history of the country and is able to identify red flags and the
red flag here is the fire department. Sara Cucinelli does not think that the Croton Harmon Fire
Department is large enough or trained enough or compensated enough to take on a building of this size
and believes that the Village would need a full-time fire department to protect this building.
Michael Kolk of 114 Elmore Ave has lived in village over 50 years, does not want a five-story building
anywhere in the Village. Mr. Kolk feels that the visuals for this project appear greater than five stories
and that 10 feet, floor to floor is excessive. Mr. Kolk says that this application has no compatibility
aesthetically in the Village.
Lisa Stenson Desamours is a 21-year resident of Croton. Lisa Stenson Desamours says that since this
building is supposed to be transit oriented and both Metro North and Amtrak are federally regulated
transportation providers and SEQRA has begun, the Village must fulfill a variety of diligence. Lisa
Stenson Desamours believes that the combination of this Lot A proposal and 1 Half Moon Bay proposal
will exacerbate an adverse impact exclusively on Half Moon Bay homeowners. These two developments
will be built on the two single lane roads to and from Half Moon Bay and asks how the Village make sure
that this does not cause worse congestion. She is concerned about the additional police, fire, trash,
recycling, and school bus traffic at this site and requests a comprehensive road infrastructure
enhancement plan that is not paid for by current Village residents. If the Village does go ahead with
these projects, Lisa Stenson Desamours believes that an engineer be retained at no cost to existing
Village homeowners. Also, Transit Oriented Development as of February, 2024 is defined as a mix of
commercial, residential, office and entertainment spaces around a transit system, so this proposal does
not meet those criteria. Also, for it to be considered transit-oriented development, they need to guarantee
that no transit parking spaces are lost and again, WBP does not met these criteria.
Brian McAlister 73 Truesdale spoke and his major concern is the traffic that this proposed development
will bring. This proposal allows for one car per household. He and his wife lived near a train station and
had two cars. Brian McAlister believes that the traffic study is wrong and that this development will impact
the train station parking lot and is wrong on all accounts.
Susan Skrelja 56 Truesdale Drive believes there is a conflict of interest with Mayor Brian Pugh. Susan
Skrelja requests an immediate moratorium on any new, large-scale developments, she would like there to
be a pause on new developments. Susan Skrelja said that Croton is one of two villages in the MidHudson Valley that has a pro-housing designation. The two proposed developments would increase the
Village's population by 11 %, and introduce 192 new students to our schools. Susan Skrelja cited a

9

statistic that 13% of school-aged children have disabilities and all these new students will cost the Village
and mean higher taxes for the current taxpayers. Currently, 80% of school revenue comes from Village
tax payers. 13% of our current student body, says Susan Skrelja, qualify for free lunch, so our community
is diverse. Aggressive urbanization must stop. These projects are too large. New developments should
be 90% market value so as not to burden the current taxpayers.
Stefanie Siegal grew up on Penfield Avenue and now lives at 165 Old Post Road North. In 2006,
Stefanie and her husband bought into a new condominium under a TCO and planned to stay for a few
years. It took them several years and they almost had to become the Board (of the condominium) to sell
their unit. Stefanie Siegal asks that the Planning Board researches this company's history to find out
about the transition from being building managed, to owner managed.
Gary Eisinger of 210 Cleveland says that what resonates for him is that it is too early for developers to
answer questions. Future residents will suffer from light pollution, and noise pollution. Where will
children play? Will this be a drain on the water supply? Gary Eisinger does not believe that the Village is
prepared to move forward on the application.
Colleen Beyrer of 19 Wells also says that the developer does not have enough answers. Colleen Beyrer
believes that five-stories is too much, the scale is too big and the Village is too far along in the process
not to have more information. Additionally, directly across the street from this site is another building that
is zoned for five stories and long until there is another building this size proposed. The potential for
another five-story building should be considered.
John McKean of Prospect Place had a revelation at this meeting and says that the Board wants to build a
five-story building with 100 units and pretend that they will only allow one and two-bedroom apartments
as they thought was the case in the building across from CVS. John McKean said that this five-story
building does not have enough water available in the street for a fire suppression system. John McKean
notes that there are no proposals for dry wells. The applicants do not know where the drains go. John
McKean asked if there was an easement.
Edwin Atkins of 95 Truesdale Drive spoke next and reported that he is new to Croton and has been
watching these developments. Edwin Atkins is focusing on the demographics that underlies some of the
tension as he hears about people such as empty nesters who want to stay in the Village but as this
proposal is for 100% affordable housing, you all but guarantee that no one from Croton can take
advantage of these projects, so hard to see this as something other than bait and switch. Edwin Atkins
says that Croton needs things, but these projects are not those things and they prevent problems being
solved.
Brian Cook of 52 Truesdale Drive spoke next and believes that something is clearly afoot as the first two
proposes were picked at for small issues such as turning lanes and that they were "ugly" and for this large
building there is no discussion about the smaller details or aesthetics.
Maria DiBella of 713 Half Moon Bay Drive spoke next and has lived in Croton since 1998 and has a
daughter going into first grade. She is taken aback that there is no study on the children and asks the
Board to consider the school bus and if it cannot go on to this property, they will be picked up on a main
road which is dangerous.
Alexander Skrelja of 56 Truesdale read a Facebook message exchange with Brian Pugh from June 3,
2021 when Alexander Skrelja asked the mayor if the development of the Katz property development, now

10

Maple Commons, was done to comply with the housing and urban development settlement with
Westchester County and the Brian Pugh said, by Alexander Skrelja's report that these is an acute need
for affordable housing in our community and the sale of the property would provide the Village with
revenue. Alexander Skrelja noted that the sale to anyone would provide the Village with revenue and that
a building with 80 percent market rate and 20 percent affordable housing would have a higher tax rate for
the Village. Alexander Skrelja believes that this development was pushed through during the COVID
pandemic and questions Brian Pugh's motivation and connection to Senator P. Harkham. Alexander
Skrelja read other messages from Brian Pugh where, by report, in March 2022, Brian Pugh said that the
property that is now Maple Commons is a step forward with regard to providing affordable housing but not
a model that he thought would be repeated in the near future. Alexander Skrelja again questioned Brian
Pugh's intentions.
Chairman Luntz explained to the audience that the charge of the Planning Board is very specific. The
Village Board of Trustees asked the Planning Board to look at this special permit application and give
recommendations on very specific criteria. The Planning Board can weigh in on some things and it is up
to the Village Board of Trustees if they will issue the special permit or not. If the special permit is issued,
the application will come back to the Planning Board for site plan approval. The Planning Board cannot
vote NO on this application, only give a recommendation .

d)

Referral from Village Board to review Draft Local Law Introductory 10 of 2024 recommending
that the Zoning regulations addressing the reservation of parkland be revised to provide
clear and concise language on their applicability

The Planning Board noted that this local law appears to be changing language of an existing law and
asked to see a copy of the "red lined" law. Dan O'Connor said that for subdivisions, a new lot is being
established, so there will be more people, and there was a recreation fee (was $9,000, now maybe
$11,000 or $12,000), that you pay to go in to a trust for Village parks and recreation. Now that multifamily buildings may be coming in, the law needs to be expanded, so the main change here is that this
new law will establish a clear system where the Village Board will set a fee scale for larger developments,
depending on the number of bedrooms, for a park and recreation fee.
The Planning Board requested a copy of the "red lined" law and will table further discussion until the next
Planning Board meeting.

3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Sklar, Richard, Senior Helpers, 383 South Riverside Ave. (79.13-2-27) Sign Permit Approval
Planning Board approved your Sign Permit Application for Senior Helpers with the condition that the
projecting 3' x 3' sign be modified to remove the excess "white space" as indicated on the attached
sketch.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the sign permit application with the condition that the projecting
sign be modified to remove the excess "white space," seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried,

5-0.
b) Adopting Planning Board Rules and Procedures
The Planning Board tabled this discussion until the next meeting.

11

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes June 4th, 2024
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of June 4th , 2024, as amended,
seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 4-0, with Rob Luntz abstaining as he was absent on
June 4, 2024.

5.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 12:14 a.m. on Wednesday, August 7th , 2024

***Minutes approved, as amended, at the August 20th , 2024 Planning Board meeting, with a motion
by Steve Krisky, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and passed by a vote of 5- 0. ***

12

