Planning Board Meeting Minutes
December 17th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Daniel Pozen, Village Attorney
ABSENT: Nora Nichols, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of December 17, 2024 to order at 8:01 p.m.
2.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Silva, Pedro, Pedra Rustica Garden Supply, Inc., - 1360 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-12)
Amended Site Plan for Changes to Site Layout at Garden Center

Pedro Silva and attorney Bob Corke were present in support of the application. The applicant obtained a
building permit in 2020 for a new commercial building. In September 2021, New York State Department
of Transportation issued a Stop Work Order to halt construction activity occurring the New York State
Right of Way in front of the applicant's property, thereby halting progress on the building permit. The
applicant states that he is here to get the issue resolved and would like the Village to help him to make
this situation move along. Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board cannot grant permission for
him to use the state's property, and suggested that the applicant go back to DOT to see about possibly
leasing some of their land.
The applicant thought that maybe the Village Manager could help him with communication with Albany.
There is currently a fence and a wall on the property that he can move, but the problem is the entrance
to the property, which would require usage of the NY State right of way, and if he cannot use a section of
state property, he will have to shut down his business. Geoff Haynes stated that the applicant was on
the right track to have his attorney present, and asked attorney Bob Corke if he had any questions. The
attorney said that at this time, the state is not willing to sell or lease the land. Attorney Bob Corke stated
that the applicant could possibly go back to the state with a modified request and asked if the applicant
came up with a new proposal, would the Village write a letter in support of a revised plan.
Chairman said that there are a multitude of other issues regarding this property, including banners and
signage that do not meet Village Code requirements, as well as lighting that is too bright and scatters
light. Steve Krisky believes that the current lighting at the applicant's property is dangerous as it is
blinding, and thought that if the applicant addressed some of these other issues, he may have a better
chance of getting what he is looking for overall.
Village Engineer Dan O'Connor reported that currently, the applicant has a temporary certificate of
occupancy that is due to expire soon,(Temporary Certificate of Occupancy expires on 12/31/24) and a
condition on the temporary certificate of occupancy was for the applicant to return to the Planning Board
with an amended site plan, which is why they are here tonight. Geoff Haynes stated that it would
probably help their case with the DOT if they removed anything that is still in the DOT right of way. The

1

Planning Board noted that the canopy on the property that was approved on the site plan could be a
place to display the slabs of marble that were previously on or near the NY State right of way.
The Planning Board suggested that the applicant update their current survey to show the current
canopies, and the existing fence, and reiterated that the applicant would need to work with the NYS DOT
and come to some type of agreement that would allow the applicant access to the piece of land in the
DOT right of way.

3.

DISCUSSION
a) Discussion among the Planning Board regarding Rules and Procedures

The Planning Board adopted rules and procedures in August, 2024. Chairman Luntz made some
revisions to the rules and procedures, and his revisions were sent to the Planning Board members for
comment. The revisions included the order in which the guidelines were presented, listing guidelines for
comments at public hearings first, and editing the title of the next section for clarity to be "Guidelines for
Public Comment Related to Agenda Items Not Subject to a Public Hearing." Public comments not
directly related to agenda items will not be heard by the Planning Board.
Geoff Haynes wanted clarification as to when the public comments should be heard, and it was stated
that public comments would be heard on each agenda item after the applicant's presentation, as
opposed to at the beginning or end of a meeting.
John Ghegan made a motion to adopt the Planning Board Rules and Procedures, as modified, on
December 17th , 2024, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 - 0.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes November 5th, 2024
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of November 5th, 2024, as
amended, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.
5. ENGINEER'S REPORT
Regarding 25 South Riverside Avenue, the wall that is currently visible will remain and be faced with
modular concrete units. The entire thing will then be covered in stone. The building is structural steel
framing that is made off site and transported to the building site.
Regarding the roadwork around on Mt. Airy Road, Con Ed is done with gas line work, and will be required
to mill and "re-top" the road. DPW will work with Con Ed regarding scheduling. Regarding the roadwork
on Route 9A, the state will repave 9A.
Regarding the project at 1380 Albany State Road, Dan O'Connor reported that the plans are currently
being reviewed by a third party and it is anticipated that construction will begin in 2026. The proposed
building will be market rate, except for the required 10% of the units that will be affordable. They are also
waiting for state approval for the septic system.

6. ADJOURNMENT
Steve Krisky made a motion to adjourn the Planning Board meeting of December 17th , 2024, seconded by
John Ghegan, carried by a vote of 5 - 0, and the meeting adjourned at 8:52 p.m.
**Minutes approved, as amended, on 1/21/25 with a motion by Steve Krisky, seconded by Geoff
Haynes, and carried, 3- 0, with John Ghegan and Eva Thaddeus being absent.**
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton, Secretary to the Planning Board

2

Planning Board Rules and Procedures
I.

REGULAR MEETINGS: The Planning Board generally conducts Regular Meetings on the
first and third Tuesday of each month at 8:00 p.m. in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room.
Any deviation to this schedule will be announced in advance.

II.

QUORUMS: A quorum of the Board must be physically present to conduct business. A
quorum of the five-member Planning Board is three, regardless of vacancies.

III.

AGENDAS: The Engineering office will prepare agendas ahead of time at the direction of
the Village Engineer.
a) Any two members of the Planning Board may, by motion at a regular meeting, place an
item on the agenda for a subsequent meeting.

IV.

VOTING: Each Planning Board Member has one vote. You must be present at the meeting
in order to vote. A majority of the totally authorized voting power (3 or more) is necessary to
pass a matter. A vote upon any matter must be taken by ayes and nays, and the names of the
members present and their votes must be entered in the minutes.

V.

GENERAL RULES OF PROCEDURE:
a) The Chairperson presides at a meeting. In the Chairperson's absence, he/she will
ask another member to step in as Acting Chairperson.
b) Every motion must be seconded before being put to a vote; all motions must be
recorded in their entirety in the Planning Board's minutes.
c) Each member shall report to the entire Planning Board any pertinent information from
boards, committees, and commissions to which they have been assigned as liaison during
a regular meeting.

VI.

GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT AT PUBLIC HEARINGS:
a) Speakers, other than applicants, must limit their remarks to five (5) minutes. At the
discretion of the Chairperson, speakers may be offered the option to speak for
longer.
b) Speakers must come to the front of the room and speak into a microphone.
c) Speakers must be recognized by the presiding officer.
d) Speakers must give their name, address, and identity of their organization, if
applicable.
e) Speakers may not yield any remaining time they may have to another speaker.
f) Board members may, with the permission of the Chairperson or presiding officer,
interrupt a speaker during their remarks, but only for the purpose of clarification or
information.
g) Speakers must observe the commonly accepted rules of courtesy, decorum, dignity,
and good taste.
h) Interested parties or their representatives may address the Board by written
communication. For public hearings, as well as other agenda items, written
communications submitted in advance are considered at the hearings and provided
as backup material. Written communication shall be submitted by 12 noon on the
day prior to the meeting for inclusion in the backup material of the meeting.

VII.

GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT RELATED TO AGENDA ITEMS NOT
SUBJECT TO A PUBLIC HEARING:
a) The Planning Board, at the discretion of the Chairperson, has traditionally allowed
comments from the public related to agenda items. Public comment, not directly
related to agenda items, is not permitted.
b) Speakers, other than applicants, must limit their remarks to three minutes. At the
discretion of the Chairperson, speakers may be offered the option to speak for longer.
c) Speakers must come to the front of the room and speak into a microphone.
d) Speakers must be recognized by the presiding officer.
e) Speakers must give their name, address, and identity of their organization, if
applicable.
f) Speakers may not yield any remaining time they may have to another speaker.
g) Board members may, with the permission of the Chairperson or presiding officer,
interrupt a speaker during their remarks, but only for the purpose of clarification or
information.
h) Speakers must observe the commonly accepted rules of courtesy, decorum, dignity,
and good taste.
i) Applicants will not have a time limit to speak.
j) All remarks must be addressed to the Board as a body and not to specific members
thereof or the audience.
k) Interested parties or their representatives may address the Board by written
communication. Written communication shall be submitted by 12 noon on the day
prior to the meeting for inclusion in the backup material of the meeting.

VIII.

MINUTES:
a) The Planning Board Secretary is responsible for taking the minutes of the Board.
Minutes must consist of a record or summary of all motions, proposals, resolutions, and
any other matter formally voted upon and the vote thereon.
b) Minutes must include the following
1. Name of Board.
2. Date, place and time of meeting.
3. Notation of the presence or absence of Board members and time of arrival or
departure if different from time of call to order and adjournment.
4. Name and title of other Village officials and employees participating in meetings.
5. A summary of communications presented to the Board.
6. Record of reports made by Board or other Village Personnel.
7. Time of adjournment and signature of secretary who took the minutes.
c) The Secretary is responsible for creating a draft of the minutes within the timeframe
provided for under the New York State Open Meetings Law. The Planning Board
approves the minutes at the next board meeting. Amendments to the minutes require
approval of the Planning Board by a majority vote.

IX.

GUIDELINES FOR USE OF RECORDING EQUIPMENT:
a) All Planning Board meetings are webcast and televised to the extent possible. All
members of the public and all public officials are allowed to tape or video record public

meetings. Recording should be done in a manner that does not interfere with the
meeting. If the recording is determined to be intrusive and interferes with the meeting,
the chairperson may direct that the recording be stopped or undertaken in a different
manner. The Chairperson, or presiding officer, may determine whether the recording is
being done in an intrusive manner, taking into consideration, but not limited to, the
brightness of lights, distance from the deliberations of the Board, size of the equipment,
and the ability of the public to participate in the meeting.

X.

ADJOURNMENT: Meetings shall be adjourned by motion.

XI.

AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE: The Planning Board may amend
the foregoing procedures by a majority vote.

*** Planning Board Rules and Procedures approved, as amended, on August 21, 2024, with a
motion by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5-0. ***

***Revised Planning Board Rules and Procedures approved on December 171\ 2024, with a motion
by John Ghegan, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried by a vote of 5 - 0. ***
Dated: August 21, 2024,
REVISED: December 17,2024

