WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, August 12, 2025 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT  Len Simon, Chairperson
         Stuart Greenbaum
         Steve Krisky
         Cara Politi
         Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
              Bryan Healy, Village Manager

1) CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Simon called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of August 12th, 2025 to order at 4:35 p.m.

2) REFERRALS

a) Referral from the Village Board of Trustees for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) Consistency Review Referral from the Planning Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) Consistency Review for Tree Removal Permit for Quaker Bridge Replacement Project

Angelo Sgobbo, of Westchester County, Esther Rivas of Westchester County, and Matt Hunt, of Creighton Manning were present in support of the application via Zoom. The project will incorporate best management practices for erosion and sediment control which will protect the Croton River. Fifty-six trees are proposed to be removed in the Village to allow the area to be used as a staging and laydown area for the new truss bridge. Tree removal will start in November due to a protected bat species. A total of 79 replacement trees are proposed in the Village.

At the end of the project, in October 2026, 35 trees (2-inch caliper) will be planted on site to replace the 56 trees that were removed. The tree spacing was established by the landscape architect. It was discussed that the Planning Board requested some larger trees also be planted. The County consultant reviewed a tree growth chart showing the yearly tree growth expected for the different species to be planted.

It was discussed that the remaining 44 trees would be given to the Village to plant elsewhere in the Village. The number and value of the replacement trees was calculated using the method specified in the Village's new tree law.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and suggested changes that are noted on the attached memo. Stuart Greenbaum made a motion to accept the Coastal Assessment Form, as amended, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and carried, 5 – 0.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policy as noted in the memo attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of consistency.

MOTION: Steve Krisky made a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and the motion carried, 5 – 0.

b) Referral from Village Board of Trustees for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) Consistency Review for AT&T Lease Agreement & Special Permit to co-locate a wireless facility at 1 Van Wyck Street

Village Manager Bryan Healy completed both the Coastal Assessment Form and the Short Environmental Assessment Form for this application. The Village is leasing a portion of the roof at the Municipal Building at 1 Van Wyck Street as part of a plan to improve cell phone service in the Village. AT&T are also going to replace the generator and pay the Village a monthly fee to rent the antenna space.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and had no changes. Steve Krisky made a motion to accept the SEAF, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and carried, 4 – 0, with Cara Politi leaving the meeting early.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and had no changes. Leo Wiegman made a motion to accept the CAF, seconded by Stuart Greenbaum, and the motion carried, 4 – 0, with Cara Politi leaving early.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and identified the applicable policy as noted in the memo attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of consistency.

MOTION: Steve Krisky made a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Stuart Greenbaum, and the motion carried, 4 – 0, with Cara Politi leaving early.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Leo Wiegman made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of May 5, 2025, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 – 0, with Cara Politi leaving early.

4. ADJOURNMENT:

There being no further business, Stuart Greenbaum made a motion for adjournment, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and the meeting adjourned at 5:40 p.m.

Respectfully submitted, Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

***Minutes accepted on Tuesday, September 16th, 2025, with a motion by Stuart Greenbaum, seconded by Leo Wiegman (participating via speakerphone) and carried by a vote of 3 – 0, with Steve Krisky and Cara Politi being absent***

---

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman: LEN SIMON
Members: STUART GREENBAUM, STEVE KRISKY, CARA POLITI, LEO WIEGMAN
Village Engineer: DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary: KAREN STAPLETON

TO:    Chairman Luntz and Planning Board Members

FROM:  Chairman Simon, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:    Referral from Planning Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
       Consistency review for a Tree Removal Permit for the Quaker Bridge Replacement
       Project

DATE:  August 13, 2025

On August 12, 2025, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above. Based on the Committee's review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form that was completed by the applicant and had the following changes:

1) Section C, number 4 "a 6" should be marked "Yes," stating that the project is located in a flood prone area

2) Section C, number 4 "c," should be marked "Yes," indicating that the project site is presently used by the community/neighborhood as an open space or recreation area

3) Section C, number 4 "d," should be marked "Yes," stating that the present site offers or includes scenic views or vistas known to be important to the community

4) Section C, number 4 "p," should be marked "Yes," indicating that best management practices will be utilized to control storm water runoff into coastal waters.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that the following policies are relevant:

POLICY 7A: The quality of the Croton River and Bay Significant Coastal Fish and Wildlife Habitat and Havestraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be protected and improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and other public uses and values. Its resources shall be protected from the threat of pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.

POLICY 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat and the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the significant fish and wildlife habitats.

POLICY 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat or Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted within the area of influence of the habitat unless best available technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.

POLICY 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations. Construction activity in the Croton River and Hudson River spawning areas shall be timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely affected.

POLICY 7G: Construction activity of any kind must not cause significant degradation of water quality or impact identified significant fish and wildlife habitats.

POLICY 7H: Habitat-related policies identified in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed Conservation Action Plan will be considered in actions proposed for these areas.

POLICY 9A: Ensure continued recreational use and public access to the rivers through Village owned land adjacent to the railroad parking lot, at Croton Point Park, at Senasqua and Croton Landing Parks, along the Croton River, and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts should be made to increase opportunities for public access and enjoyment in these areas.

POLICY 13: The construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures shall be undertaken only if they have a reasonable probability of controlling erosion for at least thirty years as demonstrated in design and construction standards and/or assured maintenance or replacement programs.

POLICY 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will beno measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities or development, or at other locations.

POLICY 17A: Efforts to control erosion along the rivers and on the steep slopes inland shall be of a non-structural nature, whereever possible, to minimize the visual impact of structural measures.

POLICY 18: To safeguard the vital economic, social, and environmental interests of the State and of its citizens, proposed major actions in the coastal area must give full consideration to those interests, and to the safeguards which the State has established to protect valuable coastal resource areas.

POLICY 19: Protect, maintain, and increase the level and types of access to public water-related recreation resources and facilities.

POLICY 19A: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.

POLICY 19B: Increase public access to areas that offer physical and visual connection to the Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.

POLICY 23: Protect, enhance, and restore structures, districts, areas or sites that are of significance in the history, architecture, archaelogy or culture of the State, its communities, or the Nation.

POLICY 25: Protect, restore or engance natural and man-made resources which are not identified as being of statewide significance, but which contribute to the overall scenic quality of the coastal area.

POLICY 25A: Establish and protect identified public viewsheds of the Hudson River, including but not limited to the public views of the Hudson River from the western shoreline.

POLICY 33: Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.

POLICY 33A: The flow of stormwater discharge shall be controlled to limit the flow of pollutants from street and parking areas, etc. directly into the rivers and water bodies.

POLICY 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by preventing damage from erosion or siltation, minimizing disturbance, preserving natural habitats and protecting against flood and pollution.

The committee reviewed the 11 LWRP Section IV Proposed Land Uses and Projects and determined that the following projects are relevant:

POLICY 2: Address drainage systems that lead to erosion on steep slopes – The intent of this project is to control stormwater runoff discharges and other pollutants from entering Croton Bay. Protecting the eclogical health of Croton Bay and River is a priority for the Village

The project will incorporate best management practices for erosion and sediment control which will protect the Croton River. Fifty-six trees are proposed to be removed in the Village to allow the area to be used as a staging and laydown area for the new truss bridge. Tree removal will start in November due to a protected bat species. A total of 79 replacement trees are proposed in the Village.

At the end of the project, in October 2026, 35 trees (2-inch caliper) will be planted on site to replace the 56 trees that were removed. The tree spacing was established by the landscape architect. It was discussed that the Planning Board requested some larger trees also be planted. The County consultant reviewed a tree growth chart showing the yearly tree growth expected for the different species to be planted.

It was descussed that the remaining 44 trees would be given to the Village to plant elsewhere in the Village. The number and value of the replacement trees was calculated using the method specified in the Village's new tree law.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.

---

Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman: LEN SIMON
Members: STUART GREENBAUM, STEVE KRISKY, CARA POLITI, LEO WIEGMAN
Village Engineer: DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary: KAREN STAPLETON

TO:    Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM:  Chairman Simon, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:    Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
       Consistency review for AT&T Lease Agreement & Special Permit to co-locate a
       wireless facility at 1 Van Wyck Street.

DATE:  August 13, 2025

On August 12, 2025, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above. Based on the Committee's review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were no changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that none were applicable.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.
