Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Monday, December 18, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Special Counsel, Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Giovanni

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi – via zoom
Trustee Slippen

1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
2. Presentation of the Key to the Village to Janet Monahan and Ian Murtaugh in
recognition of their service to the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
3. Audit Presentation for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year.
Village Manager Healy explained that our auditor from O'Connor Davies had a
dental emergency and was unable to attend tonight, so he and Village Treasurer
Tucker will give a condensed presentation. Village Manager Healy further offered
that the full audit presentation will be rescheduled for a work session in January.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Information:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202412/bf0019d854d397ab947250e234e2b8e5a0d66c71.pdf
PKF O’Connor Davies Report:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202412/58a0c9ed07ed9326067cab5c7c6ee6a1736d32e6.pdf
Trustee Simon stated that this appears to be a clean audit, he is pleased to see that
everything is in good shape, and the numbers are going in the right direction and looks
forward to the presentation by our auditors in January.
4. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 24252702-24252986. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund

$198,855.83
$19,486.48
$3,456.74

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 2

Capital Fund
Trust Fund
Debt Fund

$197,875.61
-

5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none
6. PUBLIC COMMENT – AGENDA ITEMS
Richard Olver, 42 Whelan Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that our community
has become unaffordable, and we are in a multi-generational housing crisis in this
country because we stopped building reasonably priced housing, and we need to
help our community so that it can be a home for everyone and not just the
wealthy. Mr. Olver stated that he has gone over all the documentation, he has
reviewed all the steps that have been taken and he is impressed that no stone has
been left unturned and applauds the Board for the direction they are going.
Catherine Borgia, 102 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that during her time
as a member of the County Board of Legislators, the Board came to realize that
the high cost of housing is harming all of us in Westchester County, and part of
that is because we are severely under-built, Westchester County’s Housing Needs
Assessment showed that people are burdened by the cost of housing and she
believes Lot A is an ideal location because it is within walking distance to shopping
and public transportation.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he does not
support the 1 Croton Point Avenue project, it is wrong for Croton, he is concerned
that there will not be enough parking for tenants, does not believe in the estimated
enrollment of children into the schools, it is going to be a drain on our resources,
the building is too high and he is concerned that traffic in this area is going to get
worse.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the sale of Lot
A should be stopped and the Special Permit should be denied because he believes
it is based on faulty data, diagrams presented to the public misrepresented the
size and scale of this proposal, views will be destroyed and he believes the
information that was given to the public on what the community would get from
rezoning this property was misleading, he is concerned that the projected tax
revenues are not accurate, and that the analysis on water, sewer, fire, noise,
traffic, schools and other considerations cannot be relied upon and asked that the

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 3

contract be terminated and that a new consultant be hired that will provide
accurate information to the Village.
Matthew Schuerman, 53 Old Post Road North, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
not in favor of all development, but he is in favor of this development, the
proposed development is within walking distance to the train station and the
Village stands to gain 2.3 million dollars for a property that the Village is not using
as well as property taxes in perpetuity, this project will bring more people who will
patronize our Village businesses and a portion of that sales tax will also come back
to the Village. Mr. Schuerman encouraged the Board to look at the big picture
when considering future developments, but he does believe that this project has a
lot of upside and little downside.
Cristina Alvarez Arnold, 51 Old Post Road N, Croton on Hudson, stated that we are
facing a shortage of housing, and that gap is widening and housing is one of the
key elements to reducing intergenerational poverty and supports the 1 Croton
Point Avenue project.
E-mail from Ethan Samuel Lewis, 38 Glengary Lane, Croton-on-Hudson, dated
December 17, 2024, stating that he is in favor of the 1 Croton Point Avenue
Special Permit, this development will benefit the Village coffers, its urban fabric
and current residents, the train station parking lot will be available for those
tenants that need additional parking spaces, the project is a win-win for the Village
and we are fortunate to have an opportunity to provide new housing.
7. CONSENT AGENDA:
Trustee Nicholson asked for clarification on the sunsetting of the Business
Development Committee.
Village Manager Healy explained that the Business Development Committee was a
committee that originally came out of the Comprehensive Plan Committee in 1999,
it has not been very active in the past five years, and a lot of its work has been
taken up by the Croton Business Council as well as our new Business and
Community Liaison position. Village Manager Hearly stated that the Village is still
very much committed to working on business and economic development and we
will be doing that through the Croton Business Council and our Liaison.
Trustee Simon stated that our last Chair of the Business Development Committee,
Matthew Rubenstein, is very much in support of this, he has become one of the

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 4

more active members of our regular business meetings and continues to make
many contributions to the business community.
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Letter from Kimberley Russell, Fire Council Secretary, regarding the results
of the annual Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department Chiefs Election
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202412/d9280a71fcae6c53ebfe08bf7bd596d82ba26107.pdf
2. Notice of New York State Liquor License Application for the Grand Kitchen &
Bar LLC located at 140 Grand Street.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202412/f59646155fdfa6769dcb09317743abc4a2ad1e9f.pdf
3. 2024 Year-End Report from the Police Advisory Committee
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202412/c0b98b0a7ed93d3bf60fa1aab0fa5511e8b4deb6.pdf
4. 2025 Trustee Liaison Appointments
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202412/cf8f5fdd5eb643a491dea0742de3753d78954ebc.pdf
b.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #253-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2024 has been drafted to amend Chapter
135, Garbage, Rubbish, and Littering, of the Village Code, and
WHEREAS the proposed local law includes revisions to update definitions in the Village
Code and set the times when garbage containers may be placed curbside, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees wishes to schedule a public hearing to consider
Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2024,

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 5

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules
a Public Hearing on Wednesday, January 8, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 16 of 2024.
Resolution #254-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Business Development Committee (BDC) is the successor of the Village
Comprehensive Plan Committee, which was first appointed in 1999, and
WHEREAS the BDC has been charged with working on initiatives within the Village to
foster economic development, and
WHEREAS a number of these initiatives have been put into place, such as the reformation
of the Croton Business Council and the appointment of a new Business and Community
Liaison in the Village Manager’s office, and
WHEREAS the Croton Business Council and the liaison position are well-suited to carry on
the work of the BDC in the future,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby sunsets the
Business Development Committee with thanks to all the members of the community who
have served on this committee and its predecessor committee over the past 25 years.
Resolution #255-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson plans to carry out a cybersecurity review, to
check for potential weaknesses in the Village’s computer systems, and
WHEREAS a quote in the amount of $4,800 has been provided by WSG Consulting, Inc.,
and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2024-2025 General Fund
budget,

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 6

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $4,800 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
account:
A1650.4000 – Central Communications – Contractual: $4,800
Resolution #256-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Section 2019-a of the Uniform Justice Court Act requires that Village Justices
annually provide their court records and dockets to be audited, and
WHEREAS O’Connor Davies, LLP, of Harrison, New York, conducted an independent audit
of the Justice Court of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for the fiscal year ending May 31,
2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has received a copy of the audit report,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that in accordance with Section 2019-a of the
Uniform Justice Court Act, the Village Board of Trustees acknowledges that the required
audit was conducted, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Clerk is hereby authorized to forward a copy
of the annual report and a copy of this resolution to the New York State Office of Court
Administration.
Resolution #257-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson plans to send a Village-wide mailing in the
new year related to code enforcement, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2024-2025 General Fund
budget,

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 7

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $6,000 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
accounts:
A1230.4000 – Manager – Contractual:

$4,800

A1650.4410 – Central Communications – Postage: $1,200
Resolution #258-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the on-site audit has been completed for the 2023/2024 Fiscal Year and so the
following transfers are required as detailed below; and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED The Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following budget transfers to the 2023/2024 adopted budget as follows:
General Fund:
Increase Expense
A9010.8000-NYS ERS Undistributed
A9015.8000-NYS PRS-Undistributed
Increase Revenue
A1000.2401-Interest & Earnings
Water Fund:
Increase Expense:
F9010.8000-NYS ERS-Undistributed
Decrease Expense:
F8397.2000-WTR Capital Projects

$17,462
$26,537
$43,999

$ 5,008
$ 5,008

Sewer Fund:
Increase Expense:
G9010.8000-NYS ERS-Undistributed
Decrease Expense:
G8997.2000-Home-Community Serv-Equipment
c.

APPROAL OF MINUTES:

$

194

$

194

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 8

Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on December 2, 2024,
was made by Trustee Slippen. The motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Organization Meeting held on December 2,
2024, was made by Trustee Slippen. The motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
8. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #259-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has owned a parcel located on the north side
of Croton Point Avenue at its intersection with Veterans Plaza, also known as Tax Map
Parcel 79.17-1-5 (“Lot A”) since the 1960s, and
WHEREAS Lot A was utilized as overflow parking for the Croton-Harmon Train Station for
many years and since the COVID-19 pandemic reduced the demand for commuter
parking, and additional parking spaces were added with the relocation of the Department
of Public Works from the Train Station, the Village Board of Trustees (“Village Board”)
has determined Lot A is not needed for municipal purposes and issued a Request for
Proposals (“RFP”) for the development of Lot A, and
WHEREAS on April 24, 2024, the Village Board adopted Resolution 86-2024 to move
forward with WBP Development LLC (“the Applicant”) of Chappaqua, New York, as the
proposed purchaser and developer of Lot A, and
WHEREAS the Applicant has also entered into a contract for the purchase of the adjacent
parcel owned by Croton Point Realty Inc. located at 1 Croton Point Avenue and also
known as Tax Map Parcel 79.17-1-4 (“the CPR Parcel”), and
WHEREAS as the Applicant will be purchasing the CPR Parcel, the Village Board has
indicated it will also include an additional adjacent Village owned parcel currently leased
to Croton Point Realty Inc. for use in conjunction with the CPR Parcel, which additional
parcel is known as Tax Map Parcel 79.17-1-3 (“the Additional Village Parcel”) (Lot A, the
CPR Parcel and the Additional Village Parcel are collectively referred to as “the Property”),
and

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 9

WHEREAS the Property is located in the LI Zoning District and within 1,500 feet of the
Croton-Harmon Train Station, allowing for a variety of light industrial and multi-family
residential uses, and
WHEREAS the Proposed Action includes the sale of Lot A and the Additional Village Parcel
by the Village and the redevelopment of the Property with a 5-story, 100-unit, affordable
multifamily building with amenity space and 105 on-site parking spaces in a combination
of surface and below-building parking areas, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a special permit application for the proposed
five-story, one hundred (100) unit residential building on the Property from the
Applicant, and
WHEREAS the Applicant has submitted Part 1 of a Full Environmental Assessment Form
(“Full FEAF”) with supplemental studies and a Coastal Assessment Form, and
WHEREAS on July 17, 2024, the Village Board declared its intent to be the Lead Agency
for State Environmental Quality Act (“SEQRA”) purposes in connection with the Proposed
Action and directed Village staff to circulate its intent to all interested and involved
agencies and
WHEREAS on August 21, 2024, the Village Board referred the special permit application
and associated documents and the Coastal Assessment Form to the Waterfront Advisory
Committee for a recommendation of consistency with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program (“LWRP”), and
WHEREAS the Village Board retained the consulting firm AKRF Inc. of White Plains, New
York (“AKRF”) to assist in the SEQRA, LWRP and special permit reviews, and
WHEREAS the Village Board as Lead Agency has reviewed the entire record, including the
Full EAF Part 1 and Supplemental Studies and additional information together with the
Memoranda provided by AKRF, as well as comments received from the Planning Board,
the Waterfront Advisory Committee, the Westchester County Planning Board, other
involved agencies, and the public comments, and
WHEREAS at its work session meetings on September 25, 2024, October 16, 2024, and
November 6, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the Full EAF Part 2 and verbally answered
the questions set forth therein based upon the entire record, and determined that no
potential impacts were identified as moderate to large, and therefore no additional
analysis was required in a Part 3, and directed the preparation of the Part 2 and Part 3
forms and a negative declaration under SEQRA for adoption, and

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 10

WHEREAS at its work session on December 4, 2024, the Village Board also reviewed the
Full EAF Part 2 and 3 as well as the proposed attachment to the Negative Declaration and
the Reasons Supporting the Determination, and
WHEREAS in connection with the Proposed Action, the Village Board is required to make a
determination of consistency with the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has duly referred this matter to the Village Waterfront
Advisory Committee which has made and provided in writing to the Village Board a
recommendation of consistency with the LWRP policy standards and conditions. and
WHEREAS at its meeting on October 16, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the
recommendations of the Waterfront Advisory Committee in relation to the applicability
and consistency of each of the policies and sub-policies thereunder set forth in the LWRP
and reviewed all the policies as set forth in the LWRP, and
WHEREAS the Village Board desires to memorialize its discussion and findings with
respect to its determination of consistency as set forth at the October 16, 2024, meeting
in written form,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
That based upon the entire record on the Proposed Action and the above, the Village
Board of Trustees hereby adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance
including the Attachment to and Forming a Part of the Negative Declaration attached
hereto, and adopts a Negative Declaration under SEQRA determining that the Proposed
Action will not result in any potential adverse environmental impacts and that therefore
an Environmental Impact Statement
will not be required in connection with this
Proposed Action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows that the Village Board makes the following findings
regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed
Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 1A - Encourage integrated development of Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and accessory uses of Metro-North train station, while
facilitating public access to the bay area and recreational use.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable to the Proposed Action. The Board
found the action is consistent with this policy as the proposed development will be a
transit-oriented development appropriately located adjacent to the Metro-North train
station. The Village Board also found that the Proposed Action is an appropriate use of

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 11

Lot A as the parking is no longer needed or utilized at that location given the reduced
parking demand and the provision of additional parking spaces with the relocation of the
DPW facilities.
Policy 5 - Encourage the location of development in areas where public services and
facilities essential to such development are adequate.
Policy 5A - When feasible, development within the Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and sewer facilities or in close proximity to areas
where distribution lines currently exist.
The Village Board found that these policies are applicable and that the Proposed Action is
consistent with the policies as it proposes development in an area where public services
and facilities are adequate. Utility connections are available and mass transit (rail and
bus) are within walking distance. Existing water and sewer distribution facilities and
capacity are available, and the Applicant will make any upgrades as may be necessary.
Policy 6 - Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable and that the Proposed Action and
the procedures followed is consistent with the policy.
Policy 7E - Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer overflows
shall be effectively managed so as to prevent oil, grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and impact to the significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable to the Proposed Action. The Board
found the action is consistent with this policy as the proposed development will provide
for treatment of stormwater and stormwater management where none is provided today
for the existing parking lot, resulting in an improvement over existing conditions.
Policy 11- Buildings and other structures will be sited in the coastal area so as to
minimize damage to property and the endangering of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable to the Proposed Action. The Board
found the action is consistent with this policy as the proposed development is located
outside of a flood zone and will not result in any risks related to flooding and erosion. As
noted above, on-site stormwater management practices are proposed.

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 12

Policy 12 - Activities or development in the coastal area will be undertaken so as to
minimize damage to natural resources and property from flooding and erosion by
protecting natural protective features including beaches, dunes, barrier islands and
bluffs.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable to the Proposed Action. The Board
found the action is consistent with this policy as the Property consists of a parking lot
with a commercial building and the Proposed Action will not result in any damage to
natural resources. No natural protective features are located on or near the Property.
Policy 18 - To safeguard the vital economic, social, and environmental interests of the
State and of its citizens, proposed major actions in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to the safeguards which the State has established to
protect valuable coastal resource areas.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable to the Proposed Action. The Board
found the action is consistent with this policy as the Property consists of a parking lot
with a commercial building which is not in the vicinity of any valuable coastal resources.
Policy 33 - Best Management Practices will be used to ensure the control of stormwater
runoff and combined sewer overflows draining into coastal waters.
Policy 33A - The flow of stormwater discharge shall be controlled to limit the flow of
pollutants from street and parking areas, etc. directly into the rivers and water bodies.
The Village Board found that these policies are applicable and that the Proposed Action is
consistent with the policies as Best Management Practices will be used to capture, treat
and release stormwater from the Property.
Policy 41 - Land use or development in the coastal area will not cause national or State
air quality standards to be violated.
The Village Board found that this policy is applicable to the Proposed Action and that the
action is consistent with this policy as no federal or State air quality standards will be
violated.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above were
reviewed and found not to be applicable; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows: Based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action complies with the policy
standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP.

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 13

Resolution #260-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has owned a parcel located on the north side
of Croton Point Avenue at its intersection with Veterans Plaza, also known as Tax Map
Parcel 79.17-1-5 (“Lot A”) since the 1960s, and
WHEREAS on April 24, 2024, the Village Board adopted Resolution 86-2024 to move
forward with WBP Development LLC (“the Applicant”) of Chappaqua, New York, as the
proposed purchaser and developer of Lot A, and
WHEREAS the Applicant has also entered into a contract for the purchase of the adjacent
parcel owned by Croton Point Realty Inc. located at 1 Croton Point Avenue and also
known as Tax Map Parcel 79.17-1-4 (“the CPR Parcel”), and
WHEREAS as the Applicant will be purchasing the CPR Parcel, the Village Board has
indicated it will also include an additional adjacent Village owned parcel currently leased
to Croton Point Realty Inc. for use in conjunction with the CPR Parcel, which additional
parcel is known as Tax Map Parcel 79.17-1-3 (“the Additional Village Parcel”) (Lot A, the
CPR Parcel and the Additional Village Parcel are collectively referred to as “the Property”),
and
WHEREAS the Property is located in the LI Zoning District, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a special permit application from the Applicant
for a transit-oriented development consisting of multifamily residential building of five (5)
stories with cellar level for parking below grade, containing 100 residential units
consisting of approximately 46 one-bedroom and 54 two-bedroom units and providing
105 parking spaces in a combination of surface and below-building parking, with
amenities within the building including a community room, fitness center, coworking
lounge, bike storage room, and a rooftop deck and envisioning sustainable building
design features including full electrification, solar readiness, high efficiency HVAC
equipment (cold climate air source heat pumps) and appliances (Energy Star Multifamily
New Construction Program), Level 2 EV charging stations (1 per 20 parking spaces) and
low-flow water fixtures (the “Project”), and
WHEREAS transit-oriented development consisting of multifamily residential buildings as
proposed are permitted as a special permit use on the Property as the Property fronts on

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 14

Croton Point Avenue on the west side of Route 9 and within 1,500 feet of the CrotonHarmon Train Station, and
WHEREAS the Project is fully zoning compliant with the dimensional requirements for
transit-oriented multifamily residential buildings within the LI Zoning District, and
WHEREAS on July 17, 2024, the Village Board referred the special permit application and
associated documents to the Planning Board for review and recommendation in
accordance with Village Code, and
WHEREAS on August 21, 2024 the Planning Board issued a memo to the Village Board in
which it discussed the five goals and objectives set forth in §230-58 of the Village Code,
and concluded that “the Planning Board thinks that this is a good location and design for
the apartment building,” but expressed concerns with the number of units based largely
on concerns regarding traffic, parking, fiscal impacts and school children as the studies
had not yet been provided, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board recommended that additional studies, including on
potential impacts related to traffic and parking, noise (effects of road and rail sources on
future residents), projected school children, and fiscal analysis be provided, and that
the application be reviewed by the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board memo further noted that the Request for Proposals issued
by the Village Board for Lot A (the “RFP”) required the Applicant provide some form of
public benefit or public amenity which remained to be discussed, and
WHEREAS after receipt of the Planning Board memo the Village Board requested and has
received significant additional information including a detailed traffic study and parking
demand analysis, fiscal impact analysis, public school impact analysis, and a noise study,
and the Applicant has met with the Fire Department, and
WHEREAS the Village’s Planning Consultant AKRF, Inc. (“AKRF”) reviewed the various
studies and both AKRF and the Village Board requested additional information or analysis,
all of which have been provided and reviewed, and
WHEREAS in addition to the studies and analyses requested by the Planning Board, the
Village Board also received and reviewed a visual impact analysis and other studies as
part of its SEQRA review, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was by the Village Board on September 18, 2024, and
continued to and closed on October 9, 2024, and

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 15

WHEREAS the Village Board has heard additional public comments at several meetings
and received written public comments on the application and has taken all public
comments into consideration, and
WHEREAS on December 18, 2024, the Village Board adopted a Negative Declaration
under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (“SEQRA”) for the Proposed
Action/Project, and
WHEREAS, on December 18, 2024, the Village Board determined that the Proposed
Action/Project was consistent with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP).
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board has considered the following objectives and goals set forth in §230-58
of the Village Code, which are also addressed in the SEQRA Negative Declaration, and
makes the following findings with respect thereto:
A. The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The Village Manager has discussed the Project with the Police Chief, and he has
indicated the police have no concerns regarding the Project. A meeting was
held with the Applicant, Village officials and the Fire Chief at which fire access
was reviewed, and the Fire Chief made a request for an additional hydrant and
certain other modifications which were agreed to by the Applicant and with
these modifications accessibility of the structure for fire and police protection
will be satisfied.
B. The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with
the orderly development of the zoning district in which it is located and with
that of adjacent properties in conformity with the zoning district applicable to
such properties.
The Project is in a location which meets the requirements of the Zoning Code
for a transit-oriented multifamily development. The Village Board has reviewed
visual impacts and is satisfied that the size and character of the building is
appropriate and in conformity with the zoning district, although the Applicant
shall work with the Planning Board to finalize the architectural and aesthetic
design of the Project.
C. The safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the
neighborhood and of the pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the
proposed use, taking into particular account the location and size of such use,

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 16

the nature and intensity of operations involved in or conducted in connection
therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The Village Board and its consultants have reviewed extensive traffic studies
and supplemental information and parking demand studies and has determined
there will be no impact on the safety, convenience and congruity with the
normal traffic of the neighborhood. Access to the site for vehicles and school
buses has been reviewed and modified to address any concerns, although the
Applicant shall work with the Planning Board to finalize the details on access
and will also coordinate with the New York State Department of Transportation
(“NYSDOT”) on certain signal timing adjustments recommended through the
traffic study.
D. The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature
and height of walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the
site with adjacent land and buildings and their appropriate development.
The Village Board has reviewed visual impacts and potential impacts of the
location and height of the building and is satisfied that the height and location
are compatible with adjacent land and buildings. Final landscaping plans will be
reviewed and approved by the Planning Board as part of site plan approval. The
Applicant shall work with the Planning Board to finalize the architectural and
aesthetic design of the Project.
E. The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent
lands.
There are currently no ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent
lands to be preserved. The Project will improve the environmental condition of
the Property.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board issues a special permit for the Project
subject to the following conditions:
1. The applicants obtain site plan approval from the Planning Board in accordance
with Article XI of Chapter 230 of the Village Code.
2. As part of the site plan approval process the layout of the proposed water and
sewer systems will be finalized with input from the Village Engineer. As noted in
the Negative Declaration, there are two possible options to provide adequate
fire flow to the Property.

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 17

3. The site plan approval shall be conditioned upon a requirement that the
Building Department will be provided with documented sound transmission
ratings of the proposed windows and façade materials, as well as composite
attenuation calculations to be completed by the Applicant’s architect, to be
reviewed and approved prior to the issuance of a building permit to provide
assurance that the appropriate level of noise attenuation documented in the
Negative Declaration will be met.
4. The Applicant in conjunction with site plan approval shall coordinate with
NYSDOT on adjusting the timing for certain traffic signals on Croton Point
Avenue as identified in the Applicant’s Traffic Impact Study and the Negative
Declaration, and a copy of the Traffic Impact Study shall be provided to
NYSDOT.
5. The Applicant shall modify the site plans to make the revisions requested by the
Fire Department as set forth in the memo from the Village Manager to the
Village Board dated November 6, 2024.
6. The site plan approval shall be conditioned upon the Building Department being
provided with a Soil Management Plan (“SMP”) and specifications for the
proposed vapor barrier for review and approval, with input from the Village’s
consultants prior to issuance of a building permit. As noted in the Negative
Declaration, with the above measures included as part of the Project’s
construction, no impacts related to the creation of hazards to human health are
anticipated.
7. The Applicant and the Village Board shall review and agree upon a public
amenity to be provided as required by the RFP.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon read the following statement in support of the Special Permit for Lot A and
his reasons why he feels the proposed project should proceed to its next steps in the
regulatory process:
1. This Is a Great Place to Build Housing
This is an underused publicly owned lot that served its purpose in its day. But now
the day has changed. We have a responsibility to ensure that this vacant lot is put
to good use in the future. And what a place it will be to live: Croton Point Park to

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 18

your right, the Train Station straight ahead - and to your left the restaurants,
shops and stores of the South Riverside business district.
2. I Believe in Transit Oriented Development
I have studied it, I have experienced it, I have seen it work in other communities
around the country and here in Westchester. It is one of the leading policies that
we have to increase our sustainability in the future. TOD is a good thing. This
project is one of the best – and most obvious – examples of transit-oriented
development I have ever seen.
3. We’ve Taken our Time and Done Our Homework
We promised we were not in a hurry on this project, and we kept our word.
Whether you measure it from the time we began examining the zoning in 2021, or
developed the Request for Proposals in 2023, or selected the developer in April of
this year, we have been deliberative, we have gone step-by-step and as Ian
Murtaugh implored us to do – we have done our homework!
4. AKRF
We have been assisted from the start in our efforts by one of the most capable
planning and engineering firms around – AKRF. They were paid for by the
developer, but they reported to answered to only this Board. They are smart, they
are honest. They are fact based. Which, by the way, is all we ever asked them to
be – the skilled analysts giving us the best information on complicated issues that
they could discern. AKRF has done well by Croton when it comes to this project.
5. The Task Force
All throughout this process – even before the RFP was issued – we have been
guided by a hard-working citizens Task Force on Lot A. Their mission was to
determine how the Village should go about repurposing Lot A – they helped draft
the RFP and then made critical recommendations after we received proposals. The
Task Force was headed by former Mayor Bob Elliott and included those with
expertise in business, labor, housing, schools and architecture. They did a great
service for us all.
6. A Unique Project
Should this project get the funding it seeks form AHOP – the Assistance for Home
Ownership Program – it will be a unique project for Croton and our whole region –
affordable condominiums for middle class families, those earning around $150,000
per year. They do not make enough for a $700,000 mortgage for a single-family
home in Croton, but through this project they can get their slice of the American
dream.
7. WBP
I think we did well in choosing WBP to develop this site. They have been
professional and, as they have said previously in this room, they are open to

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 19

proposals to improve this project, particularly on the design side that would satisfy
many who have critiqued the current rendering of how the building would look. We
should take them up on that offer.
8. Labor
In our RFP the Lot A Task Force had the wisdom to require that union jobs be part
of the construction of this building. I like that. It is unique for smaller residential
projects, but I am very glad union jobs will be part of this project when it reaches
the construction stage. Croton should be proud that the Lot A project will have
union jobs.
9. The Planning Board
I have been one of the Board Liaisons to the Planning Board for over four years.
During that time, I have observed one common occurrence – working with
developers, the Planning Board always improves a project. They have outstanding
leadership in Chair Rob Luntz, and hard-working members who know what they
are doing. Just like we have been in no hurry, I know the Planning Board will
likewise take their time to get the Site Plan right for this project, working carefully
with the developer, WBP. I look forward to that process – I look forward even
more to the result.
10.Revenue to the Village
That is never the only reason to do a project, but it is a factor which should not
be swept under the rug. Why does a Village need more revenue: – to pay a
professional police force and make sure they have the equipment they need, to
ensure that the Fire Department has the equipment it needs, to make certain we
have a Department of Public Works next to none, that we have first class parks,
and recreation programs for our kids and seniors and everyone in between, and
adequate funding for our schools. You need revenue for all of this, and the needs
grow annually. Raising everyone’s taxes is one way to get that revenue but I do
not like that way. Responsibly developing unneeded public property is another
way. Whether it is the purchase price for the land or the property tax that will be
paid – and let’s be clear - most of this project land has not paid property taxes in
50 years or more – those dollars will mean a great deal to the maintenance and
improvement of this Village.
Those are the 10 reasons why I favor this Special Permit. This project is good. It is
not perfect, but it can be made better. The Special Permit is the essential next step
in making that happen – in making this project better. That is why I am pleased
to vote “Aye” when the question is called.
Trustee Nicholson stated that this area of the Village is unique in that it is close to
transportation and was the reason it was looked at as an opportunity for Transit-Oriented

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 20

Development. Trustee Nicholson stated that these two particular parcels are located in
the Light Industrial Zone, and they are going to be developed in a way that is unlike
other areas in the Village, the development will potentially be a five-story building
because that is what is appropriate in the zoning for this area and emphasized that in
other areas of the Village this would not be the case. Trustee Nicholson stated that the
Board has been working towards reaping the benefits of this re-zoning and we are
fortunate that when we put the RFP out, and WPB answered the call, they also had an
agreement for the purchase of the lot next door which gives us the opportunity for
synergistic development. Trustee Nicholson emphasized the importance to continue to
work with the Planning Board to make sure that this particular combined parcel will be a
true jewel to our community, and she has confidence in our development team that they
will work with the Planning Board and design team to make sure this is a livable
development. Trustee Nicholson stated that this is an empty parking lot which is going to
revitalize this part of Croton and help our businesses.
Trustee Slippen stated that while she has been following the project she has not been
entrenched with the decision-making process these past several months. Trustee Slippen
stated that she worked on the Town of Cortlandt’s Master Plan, and she is very aware of
Croton’s Comprehensive Master Plan and understands what the zoning is in this area,
she has observed an empty parking lot for years and believes that the location and the
time for this project is spot on and a great opportunity for Croton. Trustee Slippen stated
that the Planning Board’s memo and the Lot A Task Force may have caused some
confusion with respect to the scope and size of the project, and it is important that we
learn from this process as we move forward with other developments. Trustee Slippen
stated that the taxation piece is super-complicated, and we need to figure out a way to
communicate that information to our constituents, we have gotten a lot of feedback on
the design and believes that the Planning Board will be able to make recommendations to
what the public amenity piece will look like as well.
Trustee Politi stated that although people have expressed concerns about parking,
because this is a Transit-Oriented Development, she does not believe all of the 100
parking spaces will be taken up. Trustee Politi added that if you look at the school impact
from the Maple Commons development, she also does not believe that the schools are
going to be overburdened with this project. Trustee Politi emphasized that, even though
this project is going before the Planning Board for review, the Village Board will continue
to communicate with the public and she is happy that we are taking this action today.
Mayor Pugh stated that in 2014 when he ran for a seat on the Village Board he shared
that he would be a proud advocate for affordable housing for our community, he further
stated that our greatest challenge is making sure that Croton-on-Hudson is a place that

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 21

middle class families can afford to live in and to achieve that goal it requires a housing
stock that addresses the needs of people from diverse backgrounds and in different
stages of life, but sadly today, our housing stock is not doing that, the medium Village
resident earning an income of $150,000 could not afford to live in our community if they
had to buy the typical house here today, and hundreds of residents spend half their
income or more on housing which is a burden that reduces what they can spend on local
businesses and even worse, their ability to save and build for a better future for
themselves and their families. Mayor Pugh stated that the approval of the Special Permit
for Lot A brings us one step closer in addressing this problem and fulfilling our
commitments as a Pro-Housing Community, and to allow the status quo of rising rents
and few opportunities for people to realize the American dream of home-ownership
would be undermining that commitment, there are a lot of benefits to this project; more
customers for our local businesses, broadening our tax base and reducing the tax burden
on current tax-payers, creating jobs and homes for those that need them, and while
there has been concerns raised about the size of this project, downsizing the project
downsizes these benefits to our community, residents have raised concerns with respect
to traffic, public safety, water, sewer and infrastructure, and the adequacies of public
facilities including our schools, but over the last five months during our SEQRA Review,
we have looked at those topics closely and we have found the proposal compatible in all
respect and therefore he supports issuing the Special Permit and moving this application
to our Planning Board for a robust Site Plan review process.
Resolution #261-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is legally required to follow the federally
mandated minimum wage for its employees which is currently set at $7.25 per hour, and
WHEREAS New York State has adopted a minimum wage rate schedule for various parts
of the state, and
WHEREAS although the Village is exempt from these schedules, it recognizes the need to
set a higher minimum rate standard than the federal guidelines, and
WHEREAS the state minimum wage is scheduled to increase on January 1, 2025, to
$16.50 per hour for New York City and the counties of Nassau, Suffolk, and Westchester,
and to $15.50 per hour for the rest of the state; and

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 22

WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has decided that it would follow the schedule set
for the remainder of New York State, and
WHEREAS this minimum wage policy as adopted would apply to all seasonal part-time
employees of the Village, including, but not limited to, camp counselors, lifeguards, gate
attendants, and laborers,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to implement a
minimum wage of $15.50 per hour as of January 1, 2025, for all seasonal part-time
employees of the Village.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh explained that the Village is only bound by the Federal Minimum Wage which
remains at $7.25 an hour, New York State adopted a Statewide Minimum Wage, and he
is happy that we are dittoing that policy and voluntarily complying with our State
Minimum Wage. Mayor Pugh stated that a lot of these jobs are held by our local youth
that work in the Recreation Department, and he is proud that we are doing this.
Resolution #262-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been awarded funding through a grant
contract (Contract Number DEC01-C02671GM-3350000) with the New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation through the Municipal Zero-Emission Vehicle
Infrastructure grant program, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson will utilize this funding to install electric
vehicle charging stations and upgrade supporting infrastructure at the Croton-Harmon
train station parking lot, and
WHEREAS the term of the contract extends from October 1, 2021, to September 30,
2025, with a total funding amount of $149,266.78,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to execute the grant contract with the New York State Department of
Environmental Conservation.
Resolution #263-2024

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 23

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton Council on the Arts (CCoA) hosted the annual Hudson River Arts &
Crafts Festival on September 2, 2024, at Senasqua Park, and
WHEREAS DPW personnel were required to support the event, resulting in overtime
costs, and
WHEREAS CCoA has submitted payment for the overtime costs associated with
supporting this event,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following budget amendment to the 2024-2025 General Fund budget as follows:
GENERAL REVENUE
Increase
A5110.1710

Public Works Charges

$2,696.44

GENERAL EXPENSE
Increase
A7110.1200

Parks – Personnel Services Overtime

$2,696.44

Resolution #264-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson owns the staircase that connects Farrington
Road to Brook Street, having purchased the property in 1930, and
WHEREAS the steps have been found to be in disrepair and must be maintained, and
WHEREAS Site Design Consultants of Yorktown Heights, New York, has provided a
proposal in the amount of $29,700 to prepare construction documents for the design and
bidding of this project, and
WHEREAS Frank Balbi, Superintendent of
acceptance of this proposal, and

Public

Works,

has

recommended

the

WHEREAS funding for this expense was included in the 2024-2025 Capital Fund budget,

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 24

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Manager to accept the proposal from Site Design Consultants of Yorktown Heights, New
York, in the amount of $29,700.
9. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, suggested that we do
something to celebrate the election of our new President, does not support the
Gotwald Circle project, cobblestones would have been a better choice, asked how
much the clock cost, parking of commercial vehicles continues to be a problem in
his neighborhood, bikes and mopeds do not belong on roadways and asked that
the dog ordinance be enforced.
John Bainlardi of WDB Development thanked the Board for choosing them to be a
part of this exciting project, WBD is looking forward to working with the Planning
Board so that we produce the best development that we can have and one that we
can all be proud of.
Phyllis Morrow, 61 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
disappointed that Emily Giovanni will be leaving Croton, she is distressed that the
Business Council is being dissolved, concerned that the Village may lose a lot of
funding in 2025 that they are counting on, does not believe that the Lot A
development is appropriate for housing because of all the issues that have been
brought up, she also believes that the Village should not be spending $6,000 on a
clock but rather be used to fix up the community room
10.REPORTS:
Trustee Slippen wished Emily well and thanked her for her service to Croton, the
tree lighting held on December 5th was amazing and thanked the Recreation
Department for knocking it out of the park, thanked DPW for a great job picking up
leaves, it is a great service and she is grateful that the Village does this, the
Village looks beautiful and thanked everyone for making Croton shine.
Trustee Nicholson thanked Emily for her service, she will be missed and wished her
well, advised that the Recreation Department is working on securing spaces for our
summer camp programs since the schools will not be available, the Conservation
Advisory Council is looking for an Arborist, if anyone is interested to please reach
out to the Village, the repair café will be held in February, thanked the Police
Advisory Committee for a tremendous year of success in getting to know our Police
Department, and reminded everyone that the Police Survey will be coming out in

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 25

January and to be on the look-out for it, thanked all the residents who came out
over the past several months to address their concerns regarding development in
Croton, the Board takes everyone’s comments seriously, but reminded everyone
that we have a unique opportunity to develop a Transit-Oriented Development at 1
Croton Point Avenue.
Trustee Simon stated that we were very fortunate to have Emily for the last couple
of years, she will be missed and wished her well on her new endeavor, the County
wrapped up their Budget last week, there are some wonderful provisions that will
directly impact Croton; over 20 million dollars for the replacement of the Quaker
Bridge, 15 million dollars to renovate the outdoor pool at Croton Point Park,
$5,000 for the Lorraine Hansberry Coalition, $10,000 for the Croton Caring Food
Basket Program, and $50,000 for the Westchester Children’s Museum to begin a
pop-up program in Northern Westchester, attended the Municipals Officials
meeting last Thursday where we had the opportunity to wish County Executive
George Latimer well and to thank him for all he has done for Westchester as he
moves into his new position as Congressman for the southern portion of
Westchester County, attended a zoom meeting on December 2nd sponsored by the
MTA on the new congestion pricing program, participated in a press conference on
December 5th led by Senator Harckham and Assemblywoman Levenberg regarding
the 800 million dollars in the State’s Transportation Budget, he and Mayor Pugh
attended a “Change 2024” reception at the Ossining Public Library sponsored by
the Croton Council of the Arts, attended the holiday tree and Menorah lighting, and
attended the Planning Board meeting where they discussed an issue regarding the
Garden Center and Design Store storing materials in violation of their Site Plan
approvals.
Mayor Pugh congratulated Emily Giovanni on her new position, we thank her for
her service to Croton and wish her all the best.
On motion by Trustee Nicholson and seconded by Trustee Slippen the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approved the following Mayoral
appointments. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Halle Clarke
Karen Pecora

Conservation Advisory
Council
Recreation Advisory
Committee

Term ending December 2026
Term ending December 2027

Village Board of Trustees
December 18, 2024
Page 26

Mayor Pugh thanked members of the Board, staff and residents of Croton who
have done so much to make Croton shine and wished everyone a Merry Christmas,
Happy Chanukah, and a happy New Year.
Village Manager Healy advised that updated information regarding the Gotwald
Circle project is on the Village’s website as well as the Village’s Facebook Page.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village hired a new Code enforcement
Officer who will start this coming Monday.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and
approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:48pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

