MEETING SUMMARY

Croton IDEA Advisory 6/06
6 June 2025 / 2:45 – 4:15 PM / Municipal Building
Juneteenth​
The committee went over details for the upcoming Juneteenth commemoration at Vassallo
Park, including set-up, publicity, coordination of volunteers, performers, and the Ran & Gui
food truck.
Outdoor inclusion & accessibility
●​ Working with Recreation Dept. staff, the committee has enhanced the Village’s
descriptions of parks, playgrounds, fields, and trails with considerations for disability
and neurodivergence. (See Village website.) We discussed creating physical materials
with the new information and continued content development.
●​ The Dobbs Park Renovation Advisory was submitted to the Village and shared with
the Recreation Advisory Committee (RAC). The IDEA chair will follow up at the RAC’s
June 9 meeting. The RAC and Village have been very receptive to input from IDEA
and other Croton residents.
●​ There was a lively discussion about who has access to Croton’s parks.
●​ A sign with lower-level drop-off instructions was suggested for Silverlake.
●​ Also suggested: the village provide occasional access services via golf cart, etc.
Croton Welcomes Everyone
Work continues on COH WE with drafts for website language submitted to the Village at the end
of May. Copies were shared with committee members. The drafts await the Village lawyer’s review
and the Village's approval.
Town calendar and banners
Committee members and other volunteers (thank you) reviewed the Village’s 2018 BOT
Diversity Calendar, offering updates for consideration. Eventually, the calendar will provide
the basis for a new banner program. In addition, a new subcommittee was formed to
further develop dates and “how to acknowledge” guidelines.
The Arrivals Screening
The filmmaker and venue organizer are coordinating dates for the screening of this
exceptional short film.
Pride flag-raising ceremony debriefing​
The committee shared observations. Overall, the event was a great success with 130+ attendees,
positive feedback, and moving speakers. The Summerfest date and PA system contributed greatly.
Goals for next year include more promotion and broadening the event.
Summerfest booths debriefing​
Committee members agreed that the Blue Path dogs and bean bag set up were hugely popular.
We received dozens of thankful visitors. Changes for next year centered on a change of space,
away from loud programs at the firehouse.

