Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, September 10, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Slippen

1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:45pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 26001833-26002145. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 Vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the
time of the vote).
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$553,361.54
$33,024.26
$56,648.64
$341,730.85
$15,894.00

3. Presentation of Key to the Village, to Village Engineer Daniel O'Connor in
recognition of his many years of service to Croton-on-Hudson
4. PUBLIC HEARINGS
Motion to open a Public Hearing on the 2025 Complete Streets Grant
Application for Westchester County was made by Trustee Simon. Motion
was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee
Politi was not present at the time of the vote)
Comments:
Village Manager Healy advised that a letter of support was received from the
New York State Department of Transportation.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 2

Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the
time of the vote).
Resolution 210-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote).
WHEREAS, to increase non-motorized accessibility available for use by its residents,
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is looking to install sidewalk infrastructure along the
east side of South Riverside Avenue between Municipal Place and Maple Street, and
on the north side of Municipal Place between Maple Street and South Riverside
Avenue, to promote walkability, reduce car reliance, enhance connectivity to the
various businesses and amenities in the area, and foster healthier mobility options;
and
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is seeking funding under the
“Westchester County Department of Planning Complete Streets Municipal Assistance
Program”; and
WHEREAS, the cost estimate for the construction of the project is $643,170, and the
cost estimate for the design and engineering is $64,317, for a total project cost of
$707,487; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson hereby authorizes the Village Manager to take all necessary action to
submit an application for $385,902 for the Westchester County Department of
Planning Complete Streets Municipal Assistance Program, for financing the
construction and design of this sidewalk infrastructure initiative, and, upon the
funding of said amount, commits to provide the match of $321,585, 50% of the
estimated cost of construction; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
hereby affirms its commitment to work cooperatively with the County and other
municipalities within the area of the proposed project.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that safety and connectivity is part of the Bicycle and Pedestrian
Master Plan and thanked the members of the Committee for all their hard work and

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 3

looks forward to working with Westchester County to try get these funds and bring
these improvements to the Village.
Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2025
to amend Chapter 208, Trees, of the Village Code to clarify provisions
related to the Tree Preservation Fund, was made by Trustee Simon. Motion
was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee
Politi was not present at the time of the vote)
Comments:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked what the fees are for,
and emphasized that the Building Inspector should be called if a tree is on the
boundary and could be a problem for a neighbor.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that the fees that are referenced in the Code
(208-24) is for the Tree Removal Permit and those fees would go into a “Tree
Preservation Fund” up to an annual amount of $5,000 and then anything in
excess of the $5,000 would be credited to the General Fund.
Resolution 211-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees recently adopted Local
Law 10 of 2025 to replace Chapter 208, Trees, of the Village Code; and
WHEREAS, as part of this new legislation, a Tree Preservation Fund was established;
and
WHEREAS, the Village Board provided additional guidance at the work session held
on July 23, 2025, regarding the implementation of this fund; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2025 has been drafted to reflect these
conversations; and

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 4

WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on September 10, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2025 to amend Chapter 208, Trees, to reflect
clarifications to the Tree Preservation Fund, which upon adoption becomes Local Law
No. 15 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Nicholson stated that Westchester County will be responsible for replacing
trees they remove in conjunction with the Quaker Bridge project.
5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS - AGENDA ITEMS
The following people spoke in support of amending the IHRA (International
Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) definition of antisemitism. To hear the
comments in their entirety you may click on the following.
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1082 (section 00.18.37)
Nora Regis Odland, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the Board to adopt the
clarifying language with respect to the approved IHRA (International Holocaust
Remembrance Alliance) definition of antisemitism, she additionally stated that
she is excited about the potential new sidewalks.
Andrew Courtney, Mountain Trail, Croton on Hudson stated that he is
concerned that the approved IHRA (International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance) definition of antisemitism may cause more harm.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned
for the safety of individuals because of their political affiliations, thanked Dan
O’Connor for his many years of Service, he has been a credit to our Village and
a fine Professional Engineer during many difficult times. Mr. Riley stated that
he believes the Village’s Sign Ordinance is unconstitutional and referred to the
letter the Village received from the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights
Division, U.S. Department of Justice, objects to re-naming Village streets for
those that have served Croton, we should find other ways to memorialize
them, does not believe the Village should be creating a special fund to relieve
neighbors who cannot pay their rent.

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 5

Orit Daly, Mount Airy Road South, Croton on Hudson, thanked the Board for
accepting and passing the IHRA (International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance) definition of antisemitism, we should not be concerning ourselves with
legislating issues more than two continents away and addressed her personal
incidents and experiences she has had with antisemitism.
Benjamin Faber, Croton on Hudson, stated that he does not support the
adopted IHRA (International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) definition of
antisemitism, and believes that anti-Israel sentiment is not the same as
antisemitism.
Cheryl Wong, Longview Road, Croton on Hudson, read a statement from
Heather Bishop where she states she does not support the current IHRA
(International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) definition of antisemitism,
and supports the addendum.
Mr. Jamal, Albany Post Road, Croton on Hudson, spoke about his struggles as
a Muslim attending Croton schools and asked the Board to reconsider the IHRA
(International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) definition of antisemitism.
Elisa Silvergrade, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the Board
to adopt the amended IHRA (International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance)
definition of antisemitism that states that speaking out against Israel is not
antisemitic.
Mr. Jamal, Albany Post Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that she feels
threatened with the current IRHA (International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance) definition of antisemitism and encouraged the Board to adopt the
revised definition.
Sherry Horowitz, Maple Street, Croton on Hudson, concerned that the IHRA
(International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) definition of antisemitism
shuts down dialogue and encourages the Board to adopt the revised definition.
Danny Ferguson, Alexander Lane, Croton on Hudson, read a letter written by
Cheryl Wong supporting the updated IHRA (International Holocaust
Remembrance Alliance) definition of antisemitism.
Unidentified speaker encouraged the Board to support the updated IHRA
(International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) definition of antisemitism
because it is not antisemitic and wants peace for everyone.

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 6

7. CONSENT AGENDA:
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board
approved the Consent Agenda. Motion was approved with a 5-0 Vote.
Trustee Nicholson made a motion to remove item #8 (under Correspondence)
for further discussion. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and approved
with a 5-0 vote.
Trustee Politi thanked everyone for speaking this evening, she believes that
the current adoption of the IHRA (International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance) definition of antisemitism has divided us and adding this additional
language will make Croton a safer place.
Trustee Nicholson stated that she voted against the IHRA (International
Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) definition of antisemitism because Croton
already has a statement against discrimination, and does not believe another
statement is going to heal us.
Trustee Simon, Trustee Slippen and Mayor Pugh thanked everyone for coming
out this evening to speak on the IHRA (International Holocaust Remembrance
Alliance) definition of antisemitism. Trustee Simon, Trustee Slippen and Mayor
Pugh stated that they support the current definition and are not inclined to
change it at this time, but agreed to have a discussion at a future Work
Session.
The Board thanked the IDEA Committee for their signage recommendations
for Silver Lake Accessibility and looks forward to these being addressed during
staff orientation next year.
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Email from Geraldine Disalvo of AAA Northeast announcing the Village's
Gold Award in the 2025 Community Traffic Safety Award Program and
School Crossing Guard Lawrence Tramaglini as receiving the Traffic
Safety Hero Award.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/4280e845635799a4818bed3edcc19a08a77f19b7.pdf
2. Email from John Delaney, Fire Council Secretary, regarding membership
changes in the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 7

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/fae995f926a0c7911e078b5bc7e9d5fc73bb7c90.pdf
3. Memo from the Croton IDEA Advisory Committee regarding signage
recommendation for Silver Lake Accessibility.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/909c1cb9d24aa13da4b4ced7c3929373308be55d.pdf
4. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy requesting approval for Croton
Caring to hold a mahjong fundraiser at the Municipal Building.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/9cc8ccb8afd1f78ff27a993f545a408e86ad72a4.pdf
5. Letter from Harmeet K. Dhillon, Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights
Division, U.S. Department of Justice, regarding enforcement of a
municipal ordinance on signage
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/7ee287ab272898e6f09a35294caf831e1c0e2539.pdf
6. Letter from NYS Department of State requesting a consistency review
for bridge cleaning, washing, and deck sealing, including the US-9
bridges in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/6842fe7d7305925f55d8fe3dc1753c551de26ee7.pdf
7. Letter from Richard Wetherbee, President of Croton Little League,
donating five automatic external defibrillators (AEDs) to the Village for
use at the playing field.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/35d5d738964d35f0561668f4d8d5150029230008.pdf
8. Letter from various Croton-on-Hudson and Croton-Harmon School
District residents regarding the recent adoption of the IHRA definition of
antisemitism.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/afe697a3c82bc4c3409533c17feeca50b7b11362.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 8

b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #212-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to adopt a Naming Policy to regulate and govern
the naming of Village facilities and streets; and
WHEREAS, a draft policy was reviewed by the Village Board of Trustees during work
sessions held in June and August 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
the Naming Policy for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as attached hereto; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such policy shall be deemed in effect immediately.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that we currently have two streets in the Village with
honorary names.
Resolution #213-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village would like to adopt a Gift and Donation Policy to regulate and
govern the acceptance of donations by the Village; and
WHEREAS, these donations would include small-scale public enhancements such as
benches, trees, planters and other items subject to the approval of the Village
Manager; and
WHEREAS, a draft policy was reviewed by the Village Board of Trustees during a work
session held in August 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
the Gift and Donation Policy for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as attached hereto;
and

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 9

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such policy shall be deemed in effect immediately.
Resolution #214-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Municipal Home Rule Law of New York State governs the processes
whereby the Village adopts local legislation; and
WHEREAS, Section 20 of the Municipal Home Rule Law allows for proposed local laws
to be delivered to board members electronically under certain conditions; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson meets these conditions and the Village
Board wishes to continue to receive local laws in electronic format,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the electronic delivery of local laws in portable document format (PDF).
Resolution #215-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village maintains a motorboat at the Senasqua Boat Basin which the
harbormaster uses during the season; and
WHEREAS, the boat motor has recently stopped working and must be replaced; and
WHEREAS, the full cost of this replacement was not included in the 2025-2026
General Fund budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
make the following budget transfer in the 2025-2026 General Fund budget:
GENERAL FUND EXPENSES
Increase:
A7180.4700 Special Rec Facilities - Equip. Repairs $5,490
Decrease:

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 10

A1990.4000 Contingency – Contractual - $5,490
Resolution #216-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village budgets for annual debt payments through an annual schedule
received from its financial advisor; and
WHEREAS, the schedule received for the 2025-2026 fiscal year did not account for a
higher bond anticipation note (BAN) payment needed for a police vehicle; and
WHEREAS, the additional payment needed amounts to $9,000,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
make the following budget transfer in the 2025-2026 General Fund budget:
GENERAL FUND EXPENSES
Increase:
A9730.6000

BAN – Principal

$9,000

Contingency - Contractual

$9,000

Decrease:
A1990.4000
Resolution #217-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village purchased a recycling dump truck as part of the 2024-2025
capital budget; and
WHEREAS, the Village has received $162,150 in grant funds from the NYS Dept. of
Environmental Conservation and the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York
(DASNY) towards this purchase; and
WHEREAS, the capital account requires an additional $3,964.25 to fully fund the
purchase,

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 11

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
make the following budget transfer from the General Fund unallocated fund balance:
CAPITAL FUND REVENUES
Increase:
H1000.5031.25486

General Fund Transfer – Large Truck

$3,964.25

Resolution #218-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on- Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0- vote.
WHEREAS, the Government Accounting Standards Board establishes a number of
generally accepted accounting principles which state and local governments must
adhere to; and
WHEREAS one such standard, GASB 34, includes a requirement that local
governments periodically conduct an inventory of physical assets, and
WHEREAS the Village Treasurer has received a proposal from Kroll LLC of Morristown,
New Jersey, for consulting services related to GASB 34 for the compiling of a fixed
asset accounting ledger for a total cost of $2,200,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to accept the proposal from Kroll LLC in the amount
of $2,200 for the aforementioned consulting services for the fiscal year ending May
31, 2025.
Resolution #219-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on- Hudson,
New York, with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, New Cingular Wireless PCS has submitted a building permit application
for their wireless facility to be co-located at the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal
Building; and
WHEREAS, Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer, desires assistance with review of these
specialized plans, in accordance with Section 86-7(E) of the Village Code; and

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 12

WHEREAS, LaBella Associates, D.P.C., of White Plains, New York, has submitted a
proposal and agreement for their on-call building code review services for this
project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the agreement with LaBella Associates,
D.P.C., for services related to the review of the building permit application for New
Cingular Wireless PCS; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the applicant is directed to deposit an initial escrow
amount of $3,000 with the Village to fund these services.
c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on August 20,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on August 27,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
8. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #220-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, flooding issues along Brook Street have existed for many years in the
Village; and
WHEREAS, in 2023, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 142-2023 to
accept a proposal from D&B Engineers to conduct an updated drainage study along
the Brook Street drainage basin; and
WHEREAS, the study has been completed and a preferred alternate has been selected
to improve drainage along Brook Street and Terrace Place; and
WHEREAS, the Village has applied for funding for this project from Westchester
County; and

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 13

WHEREAS, the Village has completed Part 1 of a Short Environmental Assessment
Form (EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF),
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
-The Village Board hereby determines that the Proposed Action is an Unlisted
Action.
-The Village Board hereby declares itself to be the Lead Agency for SEQRA
purposes in connection with the Proposed Action.
-The Village Board hereby issues the EAF and CAF which it has before it in
connection with the Proposed Action.
-The Village Board hereby refers the Draft Law, the EAF and the CAF to the
Village Waterfront Advisory Committee for a recommendation back to the
Village Board in accordance with Village Law.
-The Village Board hereby directs Village staff to make any other circulations
and notifications regarding the Proposed Action as may be required by law.
Resolution #221-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the purchase of a command vehicle for use by Croton EMS was included
in the 2025-2026 capital plan; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson solicited sealed bids for this purchase
under Bid No. 13-2025; and
WHEREAS, one bid was submitted by the deadline of August 21, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the lowest responsible bid received was from Signal 5 Fire Apparatus, of
Ronkonkoma, New York, in the amount of $45,000; and
WHEREAS, DPW has inspected the vehicle and found it to be in satisfactory condition,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
award Bid No. 13-2025 to Signal 5 Fire Apparatus, of Ronkonkoma, New York, in the
amount of $45,000; and

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 14

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for this project has been allocated in capital
account H4540.2010.23447.
Resolution #222-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been working with Arevon (formerly
known as Sol Systems) on the installation of solar canopies at the Croton-Harmon
Train Station parking lot; and
WHEREAS, on February 17, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees approved a lease
agreement with Sol Systems for this project; and
WHEREAS, Arevon has provided an amendment to the existing lease agreement to
address temporary easements related to construction, extend the operating period
of the project to November 30, 2050, and decommissioning of the project and to
finalize the incentive amounts received for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute an amendment to the lease agreement with SCS Van Wyck 012823 Croton
on Hudson, LLC, to address temporary easements related to construction and
decommission of the project, extend the operating period of the project to November
30, 2050, and to finalize the incentive amount received for the project, subject to the
final approval of the Village Attorney.
Resolution #223-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village’s Slow Down Croton campaign first began in 2017; and
WHEREAS, Tom Smith, a Village resident and former member of the Advisory Board
for the Visual Environment, designed the name and logo for the campaign; and
WHEREAS, an agreement has been drafted to reflect future use of the campaign,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the agreement with Tom Smith.

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 15

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Slippen stated that she is grateful to Tom for producing this concept and that
he has allowed the Village to use it and would like to see it continued and be
prominently displayed.
Trustee Simon stated that this is the third iteration and thanked Tom for the
generosity of his time and creativity.
Resolution #224-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village and Westchester County own adjoining properties along Grand
Street, namely the Village Well Fields and Croton Gorge Park; and
WHEREAS, on August 20, 2025, the Village Board approved Resolution 208-2025 to
authorize the Village Manager to execute a license agreement in order to run electrical
service lines to the caretaker’s cottage in the park; and
WHEREAS, Westchester County has now provided the permanent easement
documentation for this area,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the easement agreement with Westchester County for the purpose of running
a new electrical service to the caretaker’s cottage at Croton Gorge Park.
Resolution #225-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer, is retiring from the Village on
September 26, 2025; and
WHEREAS, in recognition of his unique institutional knowledge and taking into
consideration the needs of the Engineering Department, the Village Board of Trustees
would like to retain Mr. O’Connor as a consultant; and

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 16

WHEREAS, a consulting agreement has been drafted by the Village’s labor counsel
for the period beginning October 1, 2025, through May 31, 2026,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the consulting agreement with Daniel
O’Connor, P.E.
9. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Karl Dibble, River Rock Supply Corporation asked the Village to release his
Bond; it is a hardship for his family for the Village to continue to hold onto his
money, he also submitted a Freedom of Information Request for emails and
paperwork related to the Bond and asked why pages were missing and why
some information was redacted.
Village Attorney Joshua Subin advised that a Notice of Claim has been filed
against the Village and asked the Board not to comment this evening. Mr.
Subin stated that he has consistently been in contact with the attorney, and
will be happy to speak with both Mr. Dribble and his attorney. Mr. Subin stated
that he has also addressed the Freedom of Information Request with the
attorney.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed abortion issues,
attended one of the IDEA Committee meetings and was surprised that they
could not understand why we celebrate various holidays.
10. REPORTS:
Statement from Village Attorney Subin
The Unites States Supreme Court has inscribed upon it the words “Equal
Justice Under Law” and “Justice, The Guardian of Liberty.” When you dedicate
your life to a profession, you should take those words seriously, and I try my
best to do so. Herein, the Village has baselessly been accused of politically
targeting a person. As Village Attorney I want to make something very clear,
we were not instructed to politically target anyone, by anyone. No Board of
Trustees member asked us to do so. And if asked, we would not do it.
Furthermore, it was conveyed to the individual in question, through counsel,
that a flag would not have been deemed a violation by the Village. So, I wonder
how was the content of the banner being targeted in any way? Needless to

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 17

say, this board of trustees is made up of volunteers. This is not their day job.
They dedicate their time to serving their community. They spend selfless nights
working to make sure services are provided to you and your neighbors. And I
believe they should be entitled to your respect and basic appreciation,
regardless of any pollical or policy disagreement. Now, many of you know,
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has withdrawn the violation herein. And I
want to make it clear that this matter was not addressed on the merits. It
never made its way to Court. And, I am not trying to litigate the merits of this
matter in the Court of public opinion.
However, I want to say, this violation was routine. Village code enforcement
identified 17 non-compliant locations. Our code enforcement team reached out
and tried to work with each property owner to seek voluntary compliance,
successfully resolving the same.

Village staff have been falsely accused of

engaging in a politically motivated enforcement action. I have worked with
Village staff both here and in many other villages. These are some of the most
dedicated people you can meet. If you remember from a few years ago, during
COVID, these are the same people we deemed essential. They pick up your
garbage and they make sure your house is not a death trap. They do not
deserve abusive derisive messages of hate and threats of violence! These
threats should be, and are under investigation by law enforcement. Regarding
the US Department of Justice correspondence, in my opinion, it should not
have been written without having first obtained relevant facts. Furthermore,
threats of civil action against local governments was also, in my opinion,
uncalled for. Our village government is not able to contend with continuous
anonymous abuse of staff, threats to personnel and a federal intervention
regarding a minor citation for a non-safety related provision of the Village
Code. Given these circumstances, the Village must prioritize the safety of its
personnel and the conservation of taxpayer resources. Therefore, we be
working with the Village Manager to make related code amendments, so that
we can uphold the spirit of fair and consistent code enforcement, with an
enduring belief in equal justice under law!

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 18

Trustee Slippen stated that the Library Board is pleased that the Village is
taking over the Information Kiosk, the Arts and Humanities Committee
continues to talk about expanding their Artist Banner program, a Drum Circle
at Senasqua Park will be held next Tuesday at 6pm, a meeting about Kaplan
Pond will be held on Monday at 7:00pm at Village Hall, attended the School
District’s ribbon cutting at Spencer Field, congratulated Gabrielle Stok on
becoming a National Merit finalist. Trustee Slippen stated that the letter
regarding the IHRA (International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance) definition
of antisemitism was a late entry on this evening’s agenda, and would like to
better understand of the rules about sending out revised agendas. Trustee
Slippen stated that she does not know how many people in the community
were aware that the letter was going to be on the agenda and it is important
that we make sure everyone in the community is aware when something as
important as this is placed on the agenda. Trustee Slippen stated that she is
saddened by all the violence taking place in our country.
Trustee Politi stated that the IDEA committee will be having a screening of the
Arrivals on November 8th at the Unitarian Church, and she is saddened that
some people in the Village took away her safety and we need to do a better
job of supporting each other.
Trustee Nicholson advised that the Recreation Advisory Committee met this
past Monday and talked about their successes over the summer, the Lorriane
Hansberry Committee will be holding a two-day celebration at the Croton
Library on October 4th and 5th. Trustee Nicholson stated that serving as a
Village Trustee is an honor and a privilege, and would not have imagined that
a local Code Enforcement decision could end up on the President’s desk, and
while she will not comment on the merits of this case, she believes that the
American justice system should be allowed to function as it was intended with
each side making its arguments in a court of law, social media amplified the
story and within days this dispute was on the radar of the Department of
Justice and public officials and staff were receiving death threats, we are simply
trying to do our jobs and this climate makes her question whether or not she
should be continuing in public service, but she also recognizes that this
atmosphere is exactly what some hoped for, to silence officials, weaken trust
in the rule of law and make communities afraid to enforce their own codes,
sadly this is where we are in 2025 but we all need to do better.
Trustee Simon advised that prior to the meeting the Board was at Spencer
Field for a ribbon cutting ceremony for Spencer Field, thanked the Lions Club

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 19

for hosting the BBQ at Senasqua on August 21st, this past Sunday he attended
the Sustainability Committee meeting where they talked about expansion of
our composting program, a renewable diesel program, the possibility of
installing solar panels in the DPW parking lot, and possible non-Federal funding
that may be available in 2026, on Monday morning he and Trustee Politi met
with our Association of Businesses in Croton, he, along with the Mayor, Police
Chief Nikitopoulos and Matthew Schuerman met with Channel 12 to talk about
our rapid flashing beacon and new sidewalks, Governor Hochul announced a
new round of New York Forward grants, and on September 21st the HEART
Committee will be honoring Cornelia Cotton from 3-4 at Village Hall.
Village Attorney Subin addressed a question related to waivers and affordable
housing (Section 230-48c of the Village Code) as follows: Waivers for creation
of additional fair and affordable housing. If a site plan or subdivision applicant
wishes to voluntarily provide more AFFH units than are required by
Subsection B,
the Village Board shall have the authority, but not the
obligation, to waive such zoning and other land use regulations as it deems
appropriate to allow additional dwelling unit(s) to be constructed, beyond the
number which would otherwise be permitted under the Village's Zoning Code
and other land use regulations if all of their requirements were adhered to. In
order to qualify to be considered for this waiver, an applicant must
demonstrate that, without the waiver, the inclusion of the additional AFFH
unit(s) would impose a financial burden that would prevent the applicant from
realizing a reasonable economic return on its development.
Mayor Pugh expressed his appreciation for all Village staff; it is really absurd
that a routine matter resulted in death threats against our staff and Federal
intervention.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board of
Trustees approved the Mayor’s appointment of Sherry Horowitz and Valerie
Leis as co-chairs of the Arts and Humanities Council. Motion was approved
with a 5-0 vote.
Mayor Pugh stated that Ken Sargeant was instrumental in creating the Croton
Arts Council, he has made a lasting imprint on Croton and believes he has
many more contributions to make in the future, advised that the Conservation
Advisory Council met last night and gave an update on the fantastic work that
the Garen Club is doing at Gotwald Circle, as well as the progress of the Trails
Committee; and thanked the Croton Yacht Club for a great Hudson River Day.

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 20

Village Manager Healy gave an overview of how Village government functions:
I wanted to take this opportunity to briefly share how the Village Government
in Croton-on-Hudson functions on a day-to-day basis. The Village operates
under the council-manager form of government, in which the elected Board of
Trustees hires a professional manager to conduct the day-to-day operations of
the Village. This form of government was adopted by referendum in the Village
in 1971, and is the most popular form of government in the United States in
communities with populations of 5,000 or more. Since 1971, the Village has
had five managers, serving an average tenure of almost 11 years.
The Village Manager is a non-partisan, appointed position. The Manager is
responsible, among other duties, for administering local projects, preparing
the annual budget, the recruitment, retention and dismissal of most
employees, and labor negotiations with the two unions representing
employees. The Manager is required to keep the Village Board advised on the
fiscal affairs of the Village as well as on future needs, whether that be
infrastructure, equipment or staffing. The Manager is also authorized to declare
a state of emergency in the Village when conditions warrant and issue
emergency orders, as necessary.
The Village Manager is the chief executive officer of the Village and the Mayor
is the chief elected officer of the Village. The Village Manager and Mayor work
together closely to set board meeting and work session agendas and ensure
that the policy decisions made by the Village Board are implemented by the
administrative staff.
The Mayor presides at all Village Board meetings and work sessions and is
typically the spokesperson for the Village. The Mayor works with the Village
Board to set the community’s goals and make policy decisions. The Mayor is
also responsible for appointing residents to the various boards, committees
and councils of the Village with the consent of the Village Board.
Members of the Village Board jointly approve the annual budget for the Village
and local laws prepared at their direction. The Village Board can conduct public
hearings to hear from residents on proposed legislation, special permit uses,
and other topics permitted under state and local law. The Mayor assigns
individual Trustees, as board members are known, to serve as liaisons to
various committees and community groups, where they also focus on
community goals, projects, and long-range planning.

Village Board of Trustees
September 10, 2025
Page 21

Mayor Pugh stated that he is grateful for the Manager’s Service to the
community and to all the Managers in the past.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote. The meeting was adjourned at 10:30pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

