Planning Board Meeting Minutes
February 6th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 6th, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING

a) Fuller, Sean - 130 Grand Street (79.05-1-57) Change of Use and Amended Site Plan
Applications for Proposed Cafe/Theatre
Steve Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion
carried, 5 - 0.
Applicant Sean Fuller was present in support of the application. The applicant got a new survey for the
property and had floor plans drawn up by an architect which include the staircase, secondary egress,
and performance space. The bathrooms have moved, as shown on the plans. The applicant just
received the plans from the architect today, so there may be some changes as to the layout of the
seating once the applicant can go over the plans thoroughly. Geoff Haynes mentioned that at 49 seats,
you hit the threshold for a place of assembly. The applicant stated that they are designing the space
with a second egress, so that it would pass code if the occupancy was over 50.
When asked about the proposed hours of operation, the applicant stated that the plan was to have takeout service for lunch, catering to the local high school and maybe middle school. There will possibly be
brunch available on Saturdays and Sundays, otherwise, the venue will open at 4:30 p.m . with dinner
service offered three-five days a week to start off. Chairman Luntz commented that there was a
substantial kitchen.
Regarding the balcony space, it was going to be a work area, but it may also be a viewing area where
patrons can watch performances. The balcony has a "catwalk" where workers will set up lights and this
is also the area where the sound engineer will operate.
There are eight parking spots located behind the venue, the Planning Board would have to waive the
additional parking that is required. The applicant mentioned that he has noticed that the public parking
behind Asbury Church is not utilized in the evenings.
The applicant met with the owner of the building that shares the area behind the venue and they
discussed creating a two-tiered dumpster enclosure with spaces for general waste, recycling, a grease
trap, and a compost bin. There was discussion about possibly creating a walkway behind the building
from the church parking lot.

1

The applicant was advised that he should go back to his architect to tweak the plans and start to develop
a site plan for the Planning Board to review that showed exactly what the intentions are for the dumpster
area. Chairman Luntz clarified that the applicant's vision was clear, but it had to be clear on the plans.
John Ghegan asked that the plans be updated to include the date.
Being that it was a public hearing, Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience. Ned Rust of
Morningside Drive spoke and stated that he knew the applicant to be a thoughtful person and thought
that the proposed venue would be great for the community.
Paul Leis, Croton resident and the applicant's real estate agent spoke and said that after studying the
applicant's plan and spending time in the upper Village, he thinks the idea is a good one. Paul Leis
noted that Croton prides itself on the Arts and there are limited venues like this one. Paul Leis also
noted that there are restaurants in the Village with no parking at all.
The public Hearing remains open.

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Ostenfeld, Andrew, Croton Harmon Music Academy- 368 S. Riverside Avenue (79.13-171) Change of Use to Expand Music School to empty, adjacent storefront (Formerly
Westchester Balloon Company)

Andrew Ostenfeld and Helen Trieu Ostenfeld were present in support of the application. The applicants
have been running the Croton Harmon Music Academy for over six years and are hoping to expand into
the empty adjacent storefront. They have been working with the landlord who owns both their current
space and the proposed space next door. The renovation will be modest. The expansion will allow them
to add three new classrooms.
The entrance to the music academy will remain in its current location. There is a music school employee
who sits at the existing entrance who checks students in and out of the space. The door to the former
balloon store may be used as an exit. There are no changes proposed to the exterior of the building.
There is a rear exit in the existing Music Academy.
There is a bathroom in the rear of the new space. The applicants have an idea to cut a new opening in
the wall to create a door from the main hallway of the music academy to allow for access to the new
bathroom without having to go through a classroom. There is an existing bathroom that will remain. The
applicants are trying to create as much space as possible. The irregular shaped rooms are good for
music.
Chairman Luntz read the resolution, with conditions.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the resolution to approve for The Croton Harmon Music
Academy, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0.
b) Referral from Village Board to review Draft Local Law Introductory 1 of 2024 to amend
Section 230, Zoning, of the village Code to provide for the administration and regulation
of geothermal energy systems
The Planning Board reviewed a referral from the Village Board to review Draft Local Law Introductory 1 of
2024 to amend Section 230, Zoning, of the village code to provide for the administration and regulation of
geothermal energy systems.

2

The Planning Board suggested some changes in the wording, as follows:
A. Legislative intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to allow and encourage non-solar
renewable energy systems that harness geothermal energy within residential and business districts
according to certain safeguards and conditions.
The Planning Board suggests: Legislative intent and purpose. The purpose of this section is to allow and
encourage non-solar renewable energy systems that harness geothermal energy within the Village.
B. Geothermal Energy System - An energy system that uses heat or power from the earth's core for
heating, cooling, or generating other types of energy.
The Planning Board suggests: Geothermal Energy System - An energy system that uses heat or power
from under the ground for heating, cooling, or generating other types of energy.
D. All borings and loops shall be set back at least 10 feet from the foundation of any structure.
The Planning Board suggests: All borings and loops shall be set back at least 10 feet from the foundation
of any structure, unless approved otherwise by the Village Engineer. This would allow for some
reduction to some foundation like slab foundation for sheds.

4.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Hannigan, Tom - 52 Upland Lane (67.8-2-1) Minor Site Plan Application & Associated
Approvals for New House

Homeowner Tom Hannigan and Engineer Joe Riina were present in support of the application. Joe
Riina thanked the Planning Board members for attending the recent site visit. Joe Riina reported that an
additional turnoff was added to the driveway, based on feedback from Dan O'Connor. Mr. Riina stated
that Dan O'Connor reviewed the SWPPP and identified a few things that needed to be cleaned up,
which the applicants did, hence the revised SWPPP which was sent in today, more language changes,
no changes to the technical part of the SWPPP. Mr. Riina also submitted an analysis addressing the 16
points regarding the steep slopes.
Regarding tree removal and replacement, the applicants are having a back and forth with the Town of
Cortlandt. The Town is requesting that they present their best attempt to restore as many trees as
possible. If they can not replace as many trees as the Town is looking for, they will have to pay some
money into a tree fund. There is not much area for planting new trees, maybe some on the slopes and
some down the side of the driveway. There will be plantings on both the Town and Village sections of
the property. As per the town's report, there are a total of 246 trees that need to come down, 79 in the
Village of Croton.
The applicant stated that they are trying to create a fully sustainable project and the site may have too
many trees. Varying numbers as to what makes a fully sustainable forest, but this site has about 120
trees per acre. The applicant plans to put in proper drainage, so tree reduction may help. Eva
Thaddeus said that tree reduction would look different, more thinning out the lot. It was suggested that
the applicant get their own tree person, a forester or arborist who could give some guidance as to how to
replant responsibly. The applicant stated that they retained the services of Tim Miller Associates of Cold
Spring, NY who offers land planning and environmental services. The Planning Board is open to hearing
recommendations from Tim Miller Associates. Eva Thaddeus said that putting a driveway through this
piece of existing forest introduces the potential for invasive plants to grow, so planting native shrubs and
small trees along the edge of the driveway would help reduce the likelihood of the invasive plants taking
hold.

3

Engineer Joe Riina, PE submitted a Steep Slope Evaluation on how the applicants plan to meet the
Village of Croton on Hudson's review standards for Section 195-4 review standards for the steep slope
permit which Chairman Luntz read excerpts from and is included in these minutes.
The applicants are still in discussion with the Town of Cortland regarding the installation of a sprinkler
system. The applicants do not believe that they are required by the fire code to install a sprinkler
system. The Village does not have a local code that requires a sprinkler system.

5.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes January 16, 2024

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of January 16th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

6.

ENGINEER'S REPORT

Regarding the parking lot at ShopRite, there are no new updates.
Regarding 25 SRA, there was 25 SRA - They had some issues with a load of wood , now they have new,
timber lagging for the retaining wall. They are working on the wall and working on health dept approval
approvals. The developers are excavating now. The current fencing is temporary, but there will be
permanent fencing on the retaining wall. The Engineering Department received a building permit
application for the foundation. The old retaining wall will come down.
Dan O'Connor will find out more about the pocket park for Maple Commons. The Wells Avenue resident
whose property is closest to the site has applied for a building permit. The lottery for the apartment units
will start soon, the developer is waiting for approval from the state for the marketing plan . The developer
is also waiting for electrical equipment and Con Ed .
Regarding the design center on Albany Post Road, Dan O'Connor will speak to the owner and get him
back to the Planning Board .

7. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:12 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
*Minutes approved, as amended on February 20, 2024 by a vote of 4-0 with John Ghegan being absent*

4

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board held a meeting on a Change of Use application on Tuesday,
February 06, 2024 for Helen Trieu and Andrew Ostenfeld, hereafter known as "the Applicants,"
said property owned by Warren Koch and Julie Huston and located at 368 South Riverside
Avenue. The property is in the C-2 Zoning District and the Harmon/South Riverside Gateway
Overlay Zone and is designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
79.13 Block 1 Lot 71; and
WHEREAS, the proposed Change of Use is from a Retail Use to a Professional Services Use for
a music school ("Croton Harmon Music Academy"); and is an expansion of the existing Music
Academy to the empty, adjacent storefront (formerly Westchester Balloon Company); and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has a general knowledge of parking in the Harmon Business
District; and
WHEREAS, under Section 230-35 of the Village Zoning Code the Planning Board is authorized to
waive the off-street parking requirements for properties on the west side of South Riverside
Avenue between Benedict Boulevard and Clinton Street; and
WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA), the
Planning Board has determined that this project is a Type II Action, which is not subject to review
under SEQRA; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Change of Use application as described in the
submitted documents (narrative and floor plan) dated February 2nd , 2024, be approved subject to
the following conditions:

1.

2.
3.

4.

That, there will be signage for customers on the premises and on the business
website informing customers about the availability of parking in the lot at the end of
Benedict Boulevard.
That, a building permit be submitted for the Change of Use and proposed
construction.
That, sound attenuation, in accordance with residential standards to the satisfaction of
the Village Engineer, shall be incorporated into the design plans for the building permit
to reduce sound levels transmitted to the above and adjacent residential units to
acceptable levels.
That, there is no externally audible music after 8:00 p.m.

In the event that this Change of Use is not implemented within three (3) years of this date, this
approval shall expire.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
Geoff Haynes
John Ghegan
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Steve Krisky, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5-0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, February 6th, 2024.

Sire Design Consulran,s

Civil Engineers • Land Planners

February 6, 2024

Village of Croton on Hudson
Engineering Department
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton On Hudson, NY 10520-2501
Attn: Mr. Daniel O'Connor, PE
Re:

Steep Slope Application
Sec 067.08-002-001
Albany Post Road/Upland Lane

Dear Mr. O'Connor:
Introduction
It is proposed to develop the site located at the end of Upland Lane in the Village of Croton on
Hudson and the Town of Cortlandt, NY. The proposed use of the development will be to
construct a single-family residence, driveway, and support infrastructure. The 3-bedroom home
will have an access driveway, disturbance of steep slopes as. defined by both the Town and the
Village will be required.
In the Village, .17 acres will be on slopes 15% to 30%, .17 acres will be on slopes greater than
30%. The limits of disturbance are shown on the Plans and shall be marked prior to the start of
construction.
Steep Slope Evaluation
Please find below our explanation of how we are meeting the Village of Croton on Hudson's
review standards for Section 195-4 Review Standards for our steep slope permit. Verbiage from
the provisions will be outlined followed by our response thereafter.

I. That the proposed activity and the manner in which it is to be accomplished are in
accordance with the purpose and findings set forth in§ 195-1 ofthis chapter.
In proposing this Steep Slope Site Plan, we believe we are aligned with the Village's goals to
"preserve, protect and conserve its steep slopes so as to maintain and protect the natural
terrain and its vegetative features, preserve wetlands, water bodies and watercourses, prevent
flooding, protect important scenic views and vistas, preserve areas of wildlife habitat,
provide safe building sites and protect adjoining property by preventing surface erosion,
creep and sudden slope failure."
The proposed project provides the owner with reasonable use of the property to develop a
single-family home. All stabilization methods are in conformance with the latest editions of
the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation "New York State Standards and
251-F Underhill Avenue • Yorktown Heights, New York 10598
SO Walnut Grove Road • Ridgefield, Connecticut 0S877

(91 41 962-4488

(203) 431 -9504

Fax CS 1 4) 962- 7386

Specifications For Erosion And Sediment Control". In addition, any disturbances to steep
slopes .as defined by the Village of Croton on Hudson adhere to Chapter 195 of the Village
Code. All proposed disturbances have been undertaken with consideration of the soils
limitations characteristics contained in the Identification Legend, USDA Natural Resources
Conservation Service mapping for Westchester County, NY.

2. That the proposed activity and the manner in which it is to be accomplished can be
completed without increasing the possibility of creep or sudden slope failure and will
minimize additional erosion to the maximum extent practicable.
The Plans have been developed to ensure slope stability during construction. The disturbance
has been limited to the minimum required to construct the project. Stabili7,ation measures
have been proposed to ensure that slope failure does not occur during construction. Any
graded slopes steeper than 3H: 1V will be stabilized with erosion blankets. All stabilization
measures are consistent with the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation "New
York State Standards And Specifications For Erosion And Sediment Control".

3. That the proposed activity and the manner in which it is to be accomplished will not
adversely affect the preservation and protection ofexisting wetlands, waier bodies,
watercourses, floodplains, or any endangered species offlora or fauna.
Any steep slope disturbance will not impact any wetlands, water bodies, watercourses, or
floodplains. No endangered species of flora or fauna were identified during the preparation of
the EAF.

4. That the proposed activity and the manner in which it is to be accomplished can be
completed in such a way so as not to adversely qffect existing, proposed or potential future
wells or sewage disposal systems.
The project area will be served by a drilled well and on-site septic system. There are no
existing wells or sewage disposal systems within close proximity to the disturbance, so there
is no expected impact. The proposed well and septic system are away from any major slope
disturbance.

5. That the proposed activity and the manner in which it is to be accomplished are consistent
with the principles and recommendation of the Village Comprehensive Plan adopted by the
Village Board.
The proposed slope disturbance is in conformance with the Village Comprehensive Plan and
Chapter 195 of the Village Code of Croton on Hudson. The site is zoned residential and the
proposed use is in conformance with requirements outlined in the code.

6. Lot layout shall be designed so that sanitary sewage disposal systems entirely avoid areas of
very steep slope and extremely steep slope and are in compliance with all standards and
regulations of the Westchester County Health Department.

...

The proposed residence will be serviced by an on-site septic system. The proposed design has
been approved by the Westchester County Health Department (see WCHD file# C2023-07).
The site of the proposed septic system will be built on a fairly flat area - avoiding areas of
very steep slopes.
7. The padding or terracing of building sites shall be evaluated on a site-by-site basis for
appropriateness. The mounding of septic tile field~ shall be minimized to the maximum extent
practicable.

The septic system design requires 1' to 3' of fill for the purpose of leveling the area. It will
not impact or create any steep slopes.
8. The alignment ofroads and driveways shall follow the natural topography, minimize
regrading and, in the case of roads, shall comply with design standards for maximum grades
set forth in the Village Code.
The proposed driveway was designed to best follow the natural topography of the site to
minimize re-grading to the greatest extent possible.
9. The natural elevations a·n d vegetative cover of ridgelines shall be protected.from disturbance
to the maximum extent possible.
It is proposed to have minimal tree removal maintaining much of the ridgeline vegetation.
JO. All regrading shall blend in with the natural contours and undulations of the land
The proposed grading ties into the natural topography of the property.
11. Cuts and fills shall be rounded off to eliminate sharp angles at the top, bottom and side of
regraded slopes.
The grading will be done to mini'mize sharp angles at the top, bottom, and side of regraded
slopes to provide smooth transitions bet.ween new and existing topography.
12. The angle of cut and fill slopes shall not exceed the natural angle of repose of the soil or roe
materials in the cut or fill, except where retaining walls or other structural stabilization is
used. Generally for soils, cul and fill slopes should he not steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (fifty-percent slope).
The maximum grade proposed is 2H:1V which is the typical angle of repose meeting the
recommendations of the town code along with considerations for ongoing maintenance of th
site. It may be possible that during construction boulders may be placed at the base of new
slopes to provide further stabilization.

13. Fill slopes shall avoid all slopes of two horizontal to one vertical (fifty-percent slope) or
steeper. The toe of the fill slope shall not be located within 12 feet horizontally of the top of
an existing or proposed cut slope.
The proposed grading will not exceed 2H: IV slope and will ble11,d naturally into the existing
topography so as to avoid this condition.
14. Tops and bottoms of cut andfill slopes shall be set back from existing and proposed property
lines a distance at least equal to the lesser of three feet plus 115 of the height ofthe cut or fill
or l0feet.
A small portion of the proposed grading along a portion of the driveway will be within 10' of
the easterly property line, but stabilized by a low retaining.
15. Tops and bottoms ofcut and fill slopes shall be set back from structures a distance that will
ensure the safety ofthe structure in the event of the collapse of the cut or fill slopes.
Generally, such distance will be considered to be six feet plus 1/5 the height of the cut or fill
but need not exceed 10 feet. Nevertheless, a structure may be built on a slope or at the toe of
a slope if it is designed to retain the slope and to withstand the forces exerted on it by the
retained slope.
Other than retaining walls, the only other part of the project impacted is the southwest comer
of the house where some filling is required by the foundation. However, the foundation will
bear on virgin ground or bedrock.
16. Measures for the control oferosion and sedimentation shall be undertaken in accordance
with the New York Standards and Specifications for Erosion and Sediment Control (Empire
State Chapter of the Soil and Water Conservation Society, .2005, most recent version
including applicable updates or its successors) or its equivalent satisfactory to the approving
authority.
The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared for the project requires that th
contactor follow the erosion control requirements of the NYSDEC general permit for
stormwater discharges from construction activity. The Erosion Control Plan utilizes a silt
fence and a stabilized construction entrance.

iina, PE
/cm/Enc./sdc 21-22

