WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, October 23, 2024 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

PRESENT Len Simon, Chairperson Ap
Stuart Greenbaum P ROWED
Steve Krisky

lan W. Murtaugh
Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E. Village Engineer
Bryan Healy, Village Manager

1) CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Simon called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of October 23, 2024 to order at 4:30
p.m.

2) REFERRALS

a) Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency review for Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2024 amending the Zoning
Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Chapter 230, to align the zoning
regulations with current planning and development needs, the EAF and CAF.

On October 23, 2024, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the
Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above. Based on the
Committee’s review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation
of consistency with the LWRP.

Dan O’Connor clarified that the changes proposed in Local Law Introductory 12 were just part of
housekeeping to update and modernize the zoning code. The board discussed the inclusion of the
definition of a “Boarder.” Currently, under Village code, you can have up to three boarders, but there are
no permits required, and no oversight. It was determined that the Village Board may want to look at the
language surrounding family members, such as adult children.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were no
changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.
The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that none were applicable.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

MOTION: Steve Krisky made a motion for a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Stuart
Greenbaum, and the motion carried, 5-0.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Len Simon made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of September 26th, 2024, as
amended, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 — 0, with Steve Krisky
abstaining as he was absent for the September meeting.

4. ADJOURNMENT:

There being no further business, lan Murtaugh made a motion for adjournment, seconded by Leo
Wiegman, carried 4 — 0, and the meeting adjourned at 4:59 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

**Minutes approved on March 5, 2025 with a motion by Steve Krisky, seconded by Stuart
Greenbaum, and carried by a vote of 5 -0**

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790


Chairman
LEN SIMON

Members
STUART GREENBAUM
STEVE KRISKY

Croton-on-Hudson IAN W. MURTAUGH
LEO WIEGMAN

Village of
Attorney

Waterfront Advisory Committee LINDA WHITEHEAD

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building Village Engineer
One Van Wyck Street DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.

Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501 Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO: Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM: Chairman Simon, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE: Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 12 of 2024 amending the Zoning Law of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Chapter 230, to align the zoning regulations with
current planning and development needs, the EAF and CAF.

DATE: October 30, 2024

On October 23, 2024, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with
the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above. Based
on the Committee’s review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a
recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.

Dan O’Connor clarified that the changes proposed in Local Law Introductory 12 were just part of
housekeeping to update and modernize the zoning code. The board discussed the inclusion of
the definition of a “Boarder.” Currently, under Village code, you can have up to three boarders in
the RB district, and one boarder in other residential districts, with no permits required, and no
oversight. It was determined that the Village Board may want to look at the language
surrounding family members, such as adult children.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were
no changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.
The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that none were applicable.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of
consistency.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov Fax: 914-271-3790
