Planning Board Meeting Minutes
August 15th, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Steve Krisky
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of August 15th, 2023 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) McCabe, William - 9 Hudson Street (79.09-01-63) Accessory Apartment Application
William McCabe, property owner, was present in support of the application to legalize an existing
accessory apartment. The applicant bought the house 16 years ago and was told it was a legal
"mother/daughter", but when he tried to rent it out, he was told that it was not a legal accessory
apartment. Chairman Luntz reviewed the criteria for an accessory apartment, and the applicant's home
meets all the criteria but one. Village Code states that the entrance to the accessory apartment should
not be visible from the street, and currently, it is. The applicant says that he will put up a small L-shaped
wall to screen the apartment door. The applicant stated that he has already purchased the material, hard
plastic fencing, to screen the entrance to the accessory apartment. There is room for six parking spaces
at the property.
The applicant stated that he currently has a family member living in the space that will be the accessory
apartment, and will rent it out when he can legally do so. Chairman Luntz asked the applicant about the
debris on the premises, and the applicant stated that it would be addressed.
Chairman Luntz read out conditions 1-5 of the resolution, and the Planning Board decided to add a sixth
condition stating that a screen would be installed in front of the accessory apartment door, seven- feet
high, to ensure that the entrance was not visible from the street. The applicant accepted the six
conditions of the resolution.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the accessory apartment application for 9 Hudson Street with
the additional provision that an enclosure be placed in front of the accessory apartment entrance,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 4-0.

b) Referral from Village Board for a recommendation on Local Law Introductory 17-2023 - A
Local Law to Amend and Update Provisions of Chapter 230 Zoning of the Code of the
Village of Croton on Hudson.
The Planning Board reviewed the above referenced referral from the Village Board. Chairman Luntz
stated that some of the language in the existing code was outdated, and the suggested new language is

1

more of what is used currently, most notably, the definition of the word "Family." For zoning laws, the
definition of family is important in terms of single-family, two-family and multiple-dwelling uses in the
various zoning districts allowing these uses. Additionally, the updated code is written to include nontraditional families and criteria for determining if there is more than one family living in a dwelling. This
would not apply to a boarding house where people are coming and going.
Other changes in the code are editorial updates, with no policy implications. Len Simon described it as a
"clean-up" of the code, adding that future roll outs will be coming in, little by little.
The Planning Board also reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form that was included with the
referral and had no changes.
Eva Thaddeus made motion to make a recommendation in favor of Local Law 17-2023 being adopted by
the Board of Trustees, second by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 4-0.

3) APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Draft Minutes August 1st, 2023
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of August 1st, 2023, as amended,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 -0.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:50 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
**Approved, as amended 9/19/23 by a vote of 4-0, with Steve Krisky abstaining**

2

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on August 15th, 2023, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from William McCabe for an accessory apartment permit on the property located
at 9 Hudson Street and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot 63; and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the
said accessory apartment; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, William McCabe is the owner and primary occupant of the single-family dwelling in which the
accessory apartment is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment has a separate entrance, as is required; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment of 535 +/- square feet and is less than the required maximum 750
square feet or one third of the floor area whichever is less and more than the minimum of 400 square feet.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
William McCabe for the accessory apartment as shown on the floor plans prepared for this application,
submitted August 4th, 2023, and subject to Section 230-41 (C) of the Village Code and the following
conditions:

1.

2.
3.
4.
5.

6.

That, the Planning Board approval for an accessory apartment shall become null and void
within 90 days of any of the following events: a) change of property ownership; b) death of
the property owner(s); or c) change in residence of the owner. The Planning Board may
grant a ninety-day extension past the expiration for good cause, including that an application
has been filed to continue an accessory apartment use.
Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment use, then the owner shall apply to the Planning Board for renewal of the approval.
That, the current owner is to make any subsequent buyer aware of the requirement of
approval for the renewal of an existing accessory apartment.
That, the applicant applies for a building permit for the accessory apartment.
That, withing thirty days from the date of this resolution, the applicant provides proof that
screening has been installed to ensure that the door to the accessory apartment is not visible
from the street, as required by Village Code.
That the screening installed in front of the accessory apartment door be seven-feet high, to
ensure that the entrance is not visible.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, all in favor, by a vote of 4 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on August 15th, 2023.

