Planning Board Meeting Minutes
March 19th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of March 19th, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Louie, Kenway & Margaret - 115 Cleveland Drive (79.09-2-43) Accessory Apartment
Application

Homeowners Kenway & Margaret Louie were present in support of the application. They moved in to
their current home in 2019 with their children and mother-in-law. Their mother-in-law lives in the
basement, which they are legalizing as an accessory apartment. At 744 square feet, the space meets
the criteria for an accessory apartment.
It was confirmed that neighbor notification was sent to all neighbors within 100 feet of the property.
Chairman Luntz read out a copy of the resolution with conditions.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Accessory Apartment at 115 Cleveland Drive amending the
wordage on the resolution to reflect the recently updated maximum square footage of 800 square-feet
allowed for an accessory apartment, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.
b) Offer from Lindsay Audin, Chairman of Groton's Sustainability Committee, to have a
Clean Energy Communities Discussion
The Planning Board would like to extend an invitation to Lindsay Audin to attend the next Planning Board
Meeting on April 2nd , 2024 for a discussion on clean energy communities.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes March 5th, 2024

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of March 5th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

4.
•

ENGINEER'S REPORT

Steve Krisky asked about the billboard for Historic Hudson Valley that is on the side of Route 9A
North as you drive into Croton, at the Croton Point Avenue exit. Steve Krisky wondered if Historic
Hudson Valley could be asked to at least paint the sign as it is visibly rusting.

1

•
•

•

•

John Ghegan noted that he has been seeing multiple instances of hanging wires around the
Village.
Geoff Haynes asked for an update for the Matra project on Albany Post Road. Dan O'Connor
said that he would reach out to see if they received Health Department approval for the septic
system.
Regarding the retaining wall at 25 South Riverside Avenue, Dan O'Connor reported that the
application for the foundation was received. They are currently finishing up the excavation, and
will be able to dig down deeper once the foundation plan is approved. Revised plans were sent
to the Health Department, and they are waiting for approval.
Regarding Maple Commons, they are putting the sidewalk on Maple Street. DPW will do a mock
up of the clock to be placed on the property.

5.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:33 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

**Minutes approved April 2nd , 2024 by a vote of 5 - 0**

2

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on March 19th, 2024 the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from Kenway & Margaret Louie for an accessory apartment permit on the
property located at 115 Cleveland Drive and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 79.09 Block 2 Lot 43;
and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the
said accessory apartment; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, Kenway & Margaret Louie are the owners and primary occupants of the single-family dwelling
in which the accessory apartment is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment has a separate entrance not visible from the street, as is required;
and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment of 744 +/- square feet and is less than the required maximum 800
square feet or 40% of the floor area whichever is less and more than the minimum of 400 square feet.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
Kenway & Margaret Louie for the accessory apartment as shown on the floor plans prepared for this
application, submitted February 281h , 2024, and subject to Section 230-41 (C) of the Village Code and the
following conditions:

1. That, the Planning Board approval for an accessory apartment shall become null and void
within 90 days of any of the following events: a) change of property ownership; b) death of
the property owner(s); or c) change in residence of the owner. The Planning Board may
grant a ninety-day extension past the expiration for good cause, including that an application
has been filed to continue an accessory apartment use.
2. Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment use, then the owner shall apply to the Planning Board for renewal of the approval.
3. That, the current owner is to make any subsequent buyer aware of the requirement of
approval for the renewal of an existing accessory apartment.
4. That the required smoke and carbon monoxide alarms be installed in the accessory
apartment, and inspected by the Building Department within 30 days of this approval.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Geoffrey Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5-0.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on March 19th, 2024.

