Planning Board Meeting Minutes
October 15th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz (Absent)
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian W. Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Acting Chairman Geoff Haynes called the Planning Board meeting of October 15, 2024 to order at 7:59
p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Bourdon, Jesse, Croton Free Library - 171 Cleveland Drive (79.05-1-23) Amended Site
Plan for Three Book Bins
Library Director Jesse Bourdon was present in support of the application. The applicant reported that the
library receives many book donations, some which are kept by the library, some are sold at the book and
bake sale, and the majority, 85-90% of the books are recycled . Bay State Books have bins on the
property and they take all the books that the library does not keep and donates them to various
organizations. The bins are not for public use, as the library staff prefer to go through the donated books
first.
The applicant reported that the bins are on a concrete pad. The library contacts Bay State Books when
the bins are almost full, and that company comes to empty the bins, approximately every four - six
weeks. The applicant did say that if the bins were not there, the library would be unable to accept book
donations.
John Ghegan noted that the area around the donation bins is always clean .
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to call for a public hearing for Jesse Bourdon's Amended Site Plan
Application for the Croton Free Library, to approve the three book bins, seconded by John Ghegan, and
the motion carried, 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent.

3.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Fields, Maria, Sprocket Power - 1 Municipal Place (78. 12-3-2) Amended Site Plan Croton Auto Park for Battery Energy Storage System
Maria Fields and Peter Fazio were present in support of the application. Acting Chairperson Geoff
Haynes said since the public hearing at the last meeting, Village Engineer Dan O'Connor followed up on
some of the public comments as follows;

1

1) Dan O'Connor went to 60 Beekman Avenue, at nighttime, and confirmed that there is some
glare. The homeowners asked Dan O'Connor to come back when the leaves are off the trees.
Based on his observations, Dan O'Connor will reach out to Croton Auto Park and maybe invite
them to 60 Beekman Avenue to see the issue and then address it, possibly putting a shield
around some of the lights.
2) Regarding the neighbors' concerns about the battery, the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department
looked at all the documentation that was submitted by the applicant and felt that the
manufacturer had addressed the neighbors' concerns in the materials that were supplied. The
battery will be outdoors, and has a fire extinguishing system built in. The Croton-on-Hudson Fire
Department thought that the proposed location was good, in the middle of the parking lot,
surrounded by a fence.
Acting Chairperson Geoff Haynes mentioned that the Planning Board asked the applicant to have
the equipment moved from the original proposed site on South Riverside Avenue. John Ghegan
said that he drove around the site prior to coming to this meeting and noted that there were some
dumpsters near the northeast corner of the site that would impede a fire truck. John Ghegan also
noted that the glare from the proposed solar panels should not bother anyone. The applicant stated
that she spoke with the property owner who said that he would be happy to work with the Village to
troubleshoot issues from the neighbors, but he does need lighting for security purposes.
Acting Chairperson Geoff Haynes read the resolution.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Amended Site Plan application for a battery energy
storage system at Croton Auto Park, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with
Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent.

b) Fuller, Sean - 130 Grand Street (79.05-1-57) Amended Site Plan Approval for the
Addition of Dormers
Sean Fuller was present in support of the application. The applicant reported that they are not raising
height of building but adding two dormers, to have head clearance to accommodate the people coming
up to the mezzanine area of the building. The mezzanine will have seating for 25 people and the
addition of the dormers will ensure that they meet the ceiling height requirements. The dormer on the
west side of the building (next to Robbins' Pharmacy) will not be visible from the street or parking lot.
The dormer on the east side of the building will be visible when you walk down the driveway.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to call for a public hearing for Sean Fuller's Amended Site Plan
Application for the addition of dormers at 130 Grand Street (79.05-1-57), seconded by John Ghegan,
and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes October 1st, 2024

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of October 1st, 2024, as amended,
seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky
being absent.

5.

ENGINEER'S REPORT

Regarding 25 South Riverside Avenue, Dan O'Connor reported that the developers are working to finalize
the easement agreement for the relocation of sewer and stormwater, then that will be sent to the Health
Department for approval. The engineering office received plans for the steel framing, which will be
approved soon. Assistant Village Manager Ron Wegner has been at the site doing inspections. Dan

2

O'Connor reported that they are making headway, and getting the building out of the ground is the
hardest part.
Regarding 1360 Albany Post Road, Dan O'Connor stated that the Planning Board can expect an
application for amended site plan approval soon as the Department of Transportation would not grant
approval for the work that was proposed on the original site plan.
Regarding 1380 Albany Post Road, Dan O'Connor had no new updates, other than the developer had a
septic system designed and was still trying to connect to a private sewer.

6.

ADJOURNMENT

John Ghegan made a motion to adjourn the Planning Board meeting of October 15th , 2025, seconded by
Eva Thaddeus, carried by a vote of 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent, and the meeting
adjourned at 8:37 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended on Tuesday, November 5, 2024 with a motion by John Ghegan,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 - 0. ***

3

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed an application for the Modification of a Site Plan for
Maria Fields of Sprocket Power, hereafter known as "the Applicant." The subject property,
Croton Auto Park owned by Lou Giordano, is located at 1 Municipal Place in the C-2 General
Commercial/Municipal Place Gateway Overlay Zoning District, and designated on the Tax Map of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.12 Block 3 Lot 2, and
WHEREAS, this amended site plan application for the integrated energy system shows the battery
energy storage system and other non-utility equipment moved to a location near the proposed solar
canopy car port and electric vehicle charging station; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was open and closed on October 1, 2024, and
WHEREAS, the applicant worked with Con Edison to find a revised location for the placement of
their transformer, which is now located adjacent to the car port; and
WHEREAS, on September l l 1h, 2024, the Village Board (lead agency) issued a negative
declaration under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA);
WHEREAS, on September 11 th , 2024, the Village Board of Trustees issued a Special Permit to
Sprocket Power for the installation of an integrated energy system at Croton Auto Park, 1 Municipal
Place, pending site plan approval for the Tier 2 Battery Energy Storage System by the Planning
Board.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Site Plan Modification application as shown
on the drawings prepared by Loring, Consulting Engineers, including Sheet E-002, "Electrical Site
Plan," and Sheet E-401, "Site Electrical Service Power Part Plan, EV Charge Station Power Part
Plan," dated April 4th 2024 and last updated on April 25 1h, 2024, and "Site Plan," and "Site PlanDetailed Views," completed by Site Design Consultants, dated March 18, 2024, with final revision
on September 25, 2024 be approved.

In the event of a failure to implement this amended site plan within three years of this date, this
approval shall expire.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton on Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson (Absent)
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by John Ghegan, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 3 to 0,
with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, October 15th, 2024.

