Planning Board Meeting Minutes
March 4th, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Dan Pozin, Village Attorney
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of March 4th, 2025 to order at 8:00
p.m.

2. NEW BUSINESS
a) SGS Van Wyck 012823 Croton on Hudson, 4 Veterans Plaza (79.17-1-10 & 5.1)
Amended Site Plan to add a 40' x 10' storage container within the fenced-in
battery energy storage system area.
As the applicant is not present, the Planning Board will not call for a public hearing on this
amended site plan application. If the applicant comes to the next regularly scheduled Planning
Board meeting, the Planning Board will hear their presentation, and entertain the possibility of
calling for a public hearing.
b) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review Draft Local Law Introductory 2
of 2025, giving the Planning Board authority to issue special permits
Dan O'Connor confirmed that what is being proposed here is giving the Planning Board the
authority to issue all special permits. It was noted that there is a special permit application for
Save Mor Pharmacy currently being reviewed by the Village Board of Trustees, so it will have
to be determined if the application will remain there.
Geoff Haynes asked why this change of having the Planning Board review the special permits
was proposed, and Dan O'Connor said that some municipalities have the Planning Board issue
special permits, and other municipalities have the special permits issued at other levels.
Village attorney Dan Pozin agreed that it is evenly split amongst other municipalities as to
those who have the Planning Boards issue special permits, and those that have the Village
Boards issue special permits. Dan Pozin stated that the benefit to having the Planning Board
issue the special permit is that it gives the applicants one place to go if they also need site plan
approval, which is issued by the Planning Board. Dan Pozin also stated that having the
Planning Board issue the special permits will give the Planning Board a lot of information, for
1

example, for the larger projects where the environmental review is more complicated, it may be
beneficial for the Planning Board to review applications in two parts, one for the special permit,
and then site plan review, and for smaller projects, the reviews can be done at the same time,
potentially shortening the process. Either way, the review time will be shortened.
In the revised code, the Village Board of Trustees will determine what constitutes a special
permit, and the Planning Board would like to ask for a draft list of activities that will no longer
require a special permit, such as operating a preschool.
The Planning Board questioned the wording in section 230-57 of the local law which stated ''A//
conditions associated with a special permit must be addressed to be deemed a complete
application by the Building Department. The submission must include the following
documentation:" and went on to list six requirements. The Planning Board believes that the
word conditions is not the right word.
Overall, the Planning Board members recognize that taking on this extra responsibility will be
more work, but that it makes sense. The Planning Board would, however like the presentation
to be very clear, what the process was, and what it is to become, so they are requesting a "redlined" version of the local law and for the Village Attorney to review it. The Planning Board
wants clarification as to what support documents are mandatory to be submitted with an
application. The Planning Board notes that they may, at times, consult with the Village Board
of Trustees, as the Village Board is the legislative body.
The Planning Board will table this discussion until the next regularly scheduled meeting. There
will be a public hearing on Local Law 2 of 2025, giving the Planning Board authority to issue
special permits.
Gary Eisinger of 210 Cleveland Drive spoke of concerns that he has about politicization of
certain issues. Gary Eisinger likes the idea of moving smaller projects (special permits) to be
reviewed by the Planning Board, but would like the Planning Board to consider the impact of
larger projects that are politicized.
Michael Mamone of 19 Young Avenue spoke next and is concerned about charging stations at
1 Croton Point Avenue being counted as parking spaces and says that by law, a charging
station is not a parking space. Michael Mamone is also concerned about landscaping in front
of the proposed building at 1 Croton Point Avenue and worries that plantings may impair
driver's vision, causing safety concerns, and believes nothing above six inches should be
planted. Regarding the proposed storage container at 4 Veterans Plaza, within the fenced-in
battery energy storage system area, Michael Mamone would like to know what is going to be in
the storage container.
c) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review Draft Local Law Introductory 3
of 2025 to amend Chapter 116, Environmental Review, of the Village Code to
update the list of additional Type II actions
The Village Board, and other Village agencies, have adopted their own list of Type II actions
under SEQRA (State Environmental Quality Review Act). Actions that are classified as Type II
are deemed to not have significant adverse environmental impact, meaning that no SEQRA
review is required.

2

Some of the adopted Type 11 actions were written directly into Section 116-1 of the Village Code
by the Village Board of Trustees. Other Type II actions that were adopted by other Village
agencies were placed in an attachment at the end of the code. The draft local law places all
Type II actions in the attachment to the Village Code and not directly in the Code and adds a
new Type 11 action.
In this local law, in the section entitled "Additional Type II Actions Adopted by Village Agencies,"
Number 15, stating "Adoption of local laws, resolutions and decisions, that have no significant
adverse impact on the environment and that are not Type I actions as defined under 6 NYCRR
617.4" was added, to clarify that these minor actions are Type II actions under SEQR. After
adoption of this additional Type II action (Number 15) by the Village Board of Trustees it will be
a Type II action on their list of Type II actions. A determination by the Village Attorney should
be made if this new Type II action should be also adopted by the other Village agencies
(Planning Board, Zoning Board of Appeals, Police Chief and Village Engineer). If so, these
other Village agencies will need to individually adopt this new Type II action.
The draft local law indicates that the list of Type II actions may be updated from time to time via
resolution by the Village Board of Trustees.

Consistent with the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act (Article 8
of the Environmental Conservation Law), and the regulations promulgated
pursuant to that statute (6 NYCRR Part 617, hereinafter "Part 617'7, the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson determines the actions listed in Attachment 1 of this
chapter to be additional Type II actions. This list may be updated from time to
time via resolution by the Village Board of Trustees.
Since the SEQR regulations [6NYCRR617.5(b)] allow each agency to adopt its own Type II list
the above paragraph may need to be amended to say,

Consistent with the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act (Article 8 of
the Environmental Conservation Law), and the regulations promulgated pursuant
to that statute (6 NYCRR Part 617, hereinafter "Part 617'7, the Village of Crotonon-Hudson determines the actions listed in Attachment 1 of this chapter to be
additional Type II actions. This list may be updated from time to time via resolution
by the Village Board of Trustees, the Planning Board and the Zoning Board of
Appeals or an amendment to the list by the Police Chief and Village Engineer.
Also, since each Village agency must adopt their own individual Type II list, the lists in the
Attachment should be individual lists for each Village agency (Village Board of Trustees,
Planning Board, Zoning Board of Appeals, Police Chief and Village Engineer) to clearly show
what Type II actions have been adopted by each Village agency.
The Planning Bard recommends that Local Law 3 of 2025, to amend Chapter 116,
Environmental Review, of the Village Code be adopted with the above taken into consideration.

3. OLD BUSINESS
a) WSP Development, LLC, - 1 Croton Point Avenue/"Lot A" (79.17-1-5,4 & 3) Application for Site Plan Approval for a five-story building with 100 dwelling units
and Subdivision Approval for Consolidation Subdivision
3

John Bainlardi of WBP Development, and Rich Williams from Insight Engineering were present
in support of the application. Chairman Luntz asked the applicants to focus on what is new and
different.
Rich Williams went over modifications to the site plan noting that they updated the front of the
building to show the alternative entrance plan, which is now the chosen entrance plan. This
plan also eliminates the easterly one-way entrance from Croton Point Avenue and provides a
one-way entrance into the site from the driveway also utilized by the MTA.
Rich Williams stated that the height of the bulkhead was reduced by 8 feet (from 71 feet to 63
feet and the footprint by 327 square feet from 1075 to 748 square-feet).
Rich Williams also confirmed an increase in the number of electric vehicle charging stations,
with 10% of the spaces (10 spaces) having level one charging stations and another 10% of the
spaces (another 10) having level two charging stations. The applicant also spoke of working
with a local artist to create a piece of art to be placed in front of the building, and noted that the
initial submission had a lot more sidewalk area, so the new improvement has more greenery,
and areas on the property that make sense to make green. The existing trees along the
eastern property line have been survey located and trees to be removed or kept have been
clarified. The applicant noted that the lighting photometric plan will be updated to include the
existing street lights.
Chairman Luntz said that, regarding the removal of trees, there is not a ton of opportunity for
replanting, but encouraged the applicants to pursue planting on the space between the off
ramp (from 9A) and the property, noting that they would require permission from the
department of transportation.
Geoff Haynes asked about delivery trucks entering the site and how to encourage them to use
the MTA access turn. John Bainlardi said that once the delivery drivers know the building, the
flow normally works itself out. John Bainlardi confirmed that there will be a mail room/ package
delivery room that will have security cameras.
Eva Thaddeus asked about the pedestrian flow in and out of the building, and Rich Williams
said that there will be a flush curb. Regarding school buses, two options were discussed,
whether having the school bus stop in the drive aisle, or on the island. The applicants will
speak again to the school officials before making a final decision.
There is a room on the first floor that may be a gym, or a lounge, the applicants must work it
out. Dan O'Connor stated that if the amenity room has a capacity for 50 or more people, then
they would need to have two exits. John Bainlardi said that they have a lot to work out. Steve
Krisky suggested that the applicants come up with a plan now to have a designated spot for
deliveries on the side of the building, to keep truck traffic away from the front of the building.
The lobby is at grade level and the apartments start ½ floor up. The elevators in the building
will be stretcher compliant and can fit furniture. The applicants tried to step back the fifth floor
of the building so that it does not appear so imposing from Croton Point Avenue. The lobby will
have lots of glazing, will have signage, and the lighting will be dark sky compliant, providing
necessary illumination that does not spill off the property.

4

Regarding the sewer on Croton Point Avenue, the applicants are preparing an application for
the Health Department. Regarding the water system, the applicants are working with the
Village to connect to the existing 10" water main on Wayne Street. Chairman Luntz asked the
applicants if they will need to finalize the water connection prior to finalizing the site plan and
the applicant said that without approval for sewer connection, they can not obtain a building
permit. John Bainlardi said that he will continue to work with the county and continue
discussions with the Village Engineer and Wayne Street homeowner regarding an easement.
Chairman Luntz asked about the reduction of the overall height of the building and elevator
bulkhead and John Bainlardi said that they are working with an elevator consultant, and may
be able to reduce the height of the bulkhead by eight feet. The Planning Board questioned the
size of the solar panels, as they looked large on the renderings. The applicants reported that
they will have to work out the exact angle of the solar panels, and John Bainlardi did not think
that the renderings were done to scale. Chairman Luntz asked for accuracy on the renderings,
including numbers on the drawings.
Eva Thaddeus asked if parking spaces would be assigned to the units, and John Ghegan
asked about rules for electric vehicle parking spaces, and the applicants said that they will
have to see what makes sense.
For the next meeting, Chairman Luntz asked the applicants to make some revisions to the
plans showing fixes on the elevations, and to bring materials for the building and more
information for the utility connections, so that the Planning Board could call for a public hearing.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes February 4th, 2025
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 4th, 2025, as
amended, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:14 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

**Motion to approve the minutes from 3/4/25, as amended, by Steve Krisky, seconded by
Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with John Ghegan being absent**

5

Chairman
ROBERTLUNTZ

Planning Board
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

TO:

Members
JOHN GHEGAN
GEOFFREY HAYNES
STEVEN KRISKY
EVA THADDEUS
Attorney
DANIEL POZIN
Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM: Chairman Luntz, Planning Board
RE:

Recommendation to Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 3 of 2025, to
amend Chapter 116, Environmental Review, of the Village Code, to update the list of
additional Type II actions

DATE:

March 6, 2025

At its regularly scheduled meeting on March 4th , 2025, the Planning Board reviewed the referral
from the Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 3 of 2025.
The Village Board, and other Village agencies, have adopted their own list of Type II actions
under SEQRA (State Environmental Quality Review Act). Actions that are classified as Type II
are deemed to not have significant adverse environmental impact, meaning that no SEQRA
review is required.
Some of the adopted Type II actions were written directly into Section 116-1 of the Village Code
by the Village Board of Trustees. Other Type II actions that were adopted by other Village
agencies were placed in an attachment at the end of the code. The draft local law places all
Type II actions in the attachment to the Village Code and not directly in the Code and adds a
new Type 11 action.
In this local law, in the section entitled "Additional Type II Actions Adopted by Village Agencies,"
Number 15, stating "Adoption of local laws, resolutions and decisions, that have no significant
adverse impact on the environment and that are not Type I actions as defined under 6 NYCRR
617.4"was added, to clarify that these minor actions are Type II actions under SEQR. After
adoption of this additional Type II action (Number 15) by the Village Board of Trustees it will be
a Type II action on their list of Type II actions. A determination by the Village Attorney should
be made if this new Type II action should be also adopted by the other Village agencies
(Planning Board, Zoning Board of Appeals, Police Chief and Village Engineer). If so, these
other Village agencies will need to individually adopt this new Type II action.
The draft local law indicates that the list of Type II actions may be updated from time to time via
resolution by the Village Board of Trustees.

Consistent with the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act (Article 8
of the Environmental Conservation Law), and the regulations promulgated
pursuant to that statute (6 NYCRR Part 617, hereinafter "Part 617'1, the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson determines the actions listed in Attachment 1 of this
chapter to be additional Type II actions. This list may be updated from time to
time via resolution by the Village Board of Trustees.

RE:

Recommendation to Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 3 of 2025, to
amend Chapter 116, Environmental Review, of the Village Code, to update the list of
additional Type II actions

Since the SEQR regulations [6NYCRR617.5(b)] allow each agency to adopt its own Type II list
the above paragraph may need to be amended to say,

Consistent with the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act (Article 8 of
the Environmental Conservation Law), and the regulations promulgated pursuant
to that statute (6 NYCRR Part 617, hereinafter "Part 617'1, the Village of Crotonon-Hudson determines the actions listed in Attachment 1 of this chapter to be
additional Type II actions. This list may be updated from time to time via resolution
by the Village Board of Trustees, the Planning Board and the Zoning Board of
Appeals or an amendment to the list by the Police Chief and Village Engineer.
Also, since each Village agency must adopt their own individual Type II list, the lists in the
Attachment should be individual lists for each Village agency (Village Board of Trustees,
Planning Board, Zoning Board of Appeals, Police Chief and Village Engineer) to clearly show
what Type II actions have been adopted by each Village agency.
The Planning Bard recommends that Local Law 3 of 2025, to amend Chapter 116,
Environmental Review, of the Village Code be adopted with the above taken into consideration.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

