Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, May 14, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua B. Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi

The following officials were absent:
Trustee Slippen
1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 24254896-24255474. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$449,075.99
$24,121.93
$6,223.22
$92,986.11
$5,037.00

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2025
to transfer the authority for the issuance of special permits to the
Planning Board was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Politi and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he assumes the
Village Board will retain the ultimate decisions on Planning and Zoning, but
he believes this action is being taken because it consumes so much of the
Village Board’s time.

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 2

There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.

Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2025
to make various updates to Chapter 125, Fire Prevention, and
Chapter 197, Streets and Sidewalks, of the Village Code was made by
Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved
with a 4-0.
Village Manager Healy gave an overview of the proposed Local Law; to view
Village Manager Healy’s memo, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202504/6afb91f97f51df2e11ef50be92801e6be617b3b5.pdf
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #94-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2025 has been drafted to make various
updates to Chapter 125, Fire Prevention, and Chapter 197, Streets and Sidewalks,
of the Village Code, and
WHEREAS the proposed local law includes revisions to the fire inspection process,
billing for sidewalk repairs and the placing of dumpsters/storage units in the rightof-way, and
WHEREAS the proposed local law is considered a Type II action under the State
Environmental Quality Review Act, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees opened and closed a public hearing on
Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2025 on May 14, 2025,

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 3

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 6 of 2025, amending Chapter 125, Fire
Prevention, and Chapter 197, Streets and Sidewalks, of the Village Code, which
upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 7 of 2025.
4. LWRP Consistency Review and EAF Part II Review for Local Law
Introductory No. 2 of 2025.
Village Attorney Subin addressed a question whether the Village Board will
retain the ultimate decisions on Planning and Zoning. Village Attorney Subin
stated that the Village Board could not delegate any of their legislative
authority without some type of Home Rule Legislation and the Village Board
will continue to have their normal authority over Planning and Zoning as well
as the authority to enact Local Laws.
Mayor Pugh stated that the theory behind Local Law #2 is the separation of
powers, the legislative entity writes the code and a separate independent
body interprets it in specific cases.
SHORT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FORM PART 2 – IMPACT ASSESSMENT

No, or
small
impact
may
occur

1.

Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan or zoning
Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics that caused the
establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing level of traffic or
affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking or walkway?

√

6.

√

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails to incorporate
reasonably available energy conservation or renewable energy opportunities?

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?
b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic, archaeological,
architectural or aesthetic resources?

√
√
√

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 4

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources (e.g., wetlands,
waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion, flooding or drainage
problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or human health?

√

LWRP Consistency Review
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore,
revitalize,
and
redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses
Existing planning and zoning documents
should be reviewed and amended where
necessary to ensure development within
the community is consistent with adopted
goals and policies
Redevelop and revitalize Village owned
land at the Metro North Train Station,
including Village garage and bay area.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro North Train
Station, while facilitating public access to
bay area and recreational use.
Every effort should be made by the
municipality to encourage the mutual
cooperation and exchange of information
between governmental agencies involved
in clean-up of the Croton landfill and
Metro-North lagoon in order to develop
commercial use of resources found in the
coastal area.
Require restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Develop the old sewage treatment plant
site at the intersection of Route 9A and
Municipal Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters
Expand restrictions on the use of power
boats on the Hudson River and Croton
River and
Bay by further enforcing the parameters
that regulate boat traffic such a speed,
turbidity, safety, and mooring and sludge
disposal. Such controls will further

1A

1B

1C

1D

1E
2
2A

Applicable
Yes/No
No

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 5

3

4

5

5A

5B

5C

6
6A

7

7A

increase the compatibility of power boat
use with other forms of recreation use
within the coastal zone area.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of major ports is not
applicable to
Croton.
The state coastal policy regarding the
strengthening of small harbors is not
applicable to
Croton.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate, except when such development
has special functional requirements or
other characteristics which necessitate its
location in other coastal areas.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
The extension of water and sewer
distribution lines beyond areas currently
served should be undertaken cautiously
and with prudent regard for Village water
resources and the preservation of
environmental values in undeveloped
areas.
Limit proposed development within those
portions of the coastal zone boundary
area, where traffic impacts such as site
distance and carrying capacity of the
roadways are restricted, particularly along
Route 9A, Albany Post Road and Route
129.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations.
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants
proposing
development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall be protected and improved for
conservation,
economic,
aesthetic,

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes
No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 6

7B

7C

7D

7E

7F

7G

8

9

recreational, and other public uses and
values. Its resources shall be protected
from the threat of pollution, misuse, and
mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitat and the
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be disposed of or allowed
to drain in, or on land within, the area of
influence in the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay significant fish and wildlife habitat or
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitat shall not be permitted within the
area of influence of the habitat unless best
available technology is used to prevent
adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay significant fish and wildlife
habitats and shore lands shall be included
in any programs for cleanup of any
adjacent toxic and hazardous waste sites.
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively channeled so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity shall be timed so that spawning of
anadromous fish species and shellfish will
not be adversely affected.
Such
activities
must
not
cause
degradation of water quality or impact
identified significant fish and wildlife
habitats
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous wastes and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain or
which cause significant sub lethal or lethal
effect on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new resources. Such efforts

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 7

9A

9B

10

11

11A

12

shall be made in a manner which ensures
the protection of renewable fish and
wildlife resources and considers other
activities dependent on them.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Villageowned land adjacent to the Metro-North
parking lot, at Croton Point Park and at
Senasqua Park, along the Croton River,
and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts
should be made to encourage recreational
use of the fish and wildlife resources found
in these areas by increasing the
opportunities for public access and
enjoyment
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment
of the wildlife in the designated significant
fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon
Society Sanctuaries, on other public or
private lands within the Village, where
wildlife habitats are located. Encourage
the recreational use of areas where such
resources are found, as well as the
protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new or improvement of
existing onshore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
state's seafood products, maintaining
adequate
stocks,
and
expanding
aquaculture facilities. Such efforts shall
be made in a manner which ensures the
protection of renewable fish and wildlife
resources and considers other activities
dependent on them.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion
Erosion and sediment control measures
shall be undertaken in order to safeguard
persons, protect property, prevent damage
to the environment, and promote the
public welfare by guiding, regulating and
controlling the design, construction, use
and maintenance of any development or
other activity which disturbs or breaks the
topsoil or results in earth movement.
Activities or Development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 8

12A

13

13A

14

15

16

16A

17

beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs.
Primary dunes will be protected from all
encroachments that could impair their
natural protective capacity
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier to
Croton Bay from activities or development
that would increase erosion of or flooding
of the Point
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at
least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or
assured maintenance or replacement
programs.
Any bulkheads along the Hudson must be
maintained in good condition and private
landowners should be required to restore
and maintain erosion control mechanisms
along their river frontage which are
designed for long term stability.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at
other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which
supply beach materials to land adjacent to
such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase
in erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
able to function, or existing development;
and only where the public benefits
outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for
increasing erosion and adverse effects on
natural protective features
Public funds shall be appropriated for the
yearly maintenance of Senasqua Park
until such time that is determined that
expenditure of funds outweighs the cost of
acquiring, constructing and maintaining a
similar public park on Croton's waterfront.
Whenever possible, use non-structural
measures to minimize damage to natural
resources and property from flooding and

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 9

17A

18

19

19A

19B

19C

19D

19E

20

erosion. Such measures shall include: (i)
the setback of buildings and structures; (ii)
the planting of vegetation and the
installation of sand fencing and draining;
(iii) the reshaping of bluffs; and (iv) the
flood-proofing of buildings or their
elevation above the base flood level.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes rising from areas
inland shall be of a non-structural nature,
wherever possible, in consideration of the
visual impact of structural measures. The
retention or planting of vegetative covers
will be preferred to structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the state
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to the
safeguards
which
the
state
has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas.
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities
so that these resources and facilities may
be fully utilized in accordance with
reasonably anticipated public recreation
needs and the protection of historic and
natural resources. In providing such
access, priority will be given to public
beaches, boating facilities, fishing areas
and waterfront parks.
Encourage the linkage of open space
along the Hudson and Croton Rivers in the
form of a trail or walkway system. Such
systems should be provided along
undeveloped and underutilized land as
well as along previously developed land.
Increase physical access to areas that
have specific value for their physical and
visual access to the Hudson River or
Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the expansion of public
transportation, when feasible, to areas
within the coastal zone area where water
dependent and water enhanced recreation
activities are located.
Increase access to Croton River and Bay
at the Village-owned land south of the
Village parking lots at the Croton-Harmon
Station.
Maintain the trail, which provides access
to the Croton River waterfront, in its
current undeveloped condition as a
pedestrian walkway.
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 10

21

21A

22

23

24

25

foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. Such
lands shall be retained in public
ownership.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast,
provided it is consistent with the
preservation and enhancement of other
coastal resources and takes into account
demand for such facilities. In facilitating
such activities, priority shall be given to
areas where access to the recreation
opportunities of the coast can be provided
by new or existing public transportation
services and to those areas where the use
of the shore is severely restricted by
existing development.
Boating activities should be encouraged
provided that they do not restrict other
recreational
opportunities
and
are
undertaken in a manner compatible with
existing water- dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the
shore will provide for water-related
recreation, as a multiple use, whenever
such recreational use is appropriate in
light reasonably anticipated demand for
such activities and the primary purpose of
the development
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, in areas of sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the state, its
communities or the nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of
statewide significance as identified on the
coastal area map. Impairment shall
include: (i) the irreversible modification of
geologic forms, the destruction or removal
of vegetation, the destruction, or removal
of structures, whenever the geologic
forms, vegetation or structures are
significant to the scenic quality of an
identified resource; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting or scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an identified
resource.
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified
as
being
of
statewide

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 11

25A

25B
25C

25D

26

27

28

28A

29

significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Protect local scenic resources by
preventing:
(i)
the
irreversible
modification of geologic forms, the
destruction or removal of vegetation or
wetlands, the destruction, or removal of
structures, whenever the geologic forms,
vegetation or structures are significant to
the scenic quality of an identified
resources; and (ii) the addition of
structures which because of siting scale
will reduce identified views or which
because of scale, form, or materials will
diminish the scenic quality of an
identified resource.
Secure the designation of the panoramic
views from Croton Point as a scenic area
of statewide significance.
Secure the designation of Routes 9 and
129 within the Croton boundaries as a
scenic road. Ensure developments on or
adjacent to Route 9 do not impair scenic
resources or views of or from the Hudson
and Croton Rivers
Establish and protect identified view-sheds
which provide visual access to the Hudson
River, including but not limited to the views
of the Hudson River from the western
shoreline of the Village, and from Prickly
Pear Hill, Lounsbury Hill, and River
Landing. In addition, protect view-sheds
to and of the Croton River and Gorge.
The state coastal policy regarding the
protection of agricultural lands is not
applicable to Croton
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
damage significant fish and wildlife and
their habitats, increase shoreline erosion
or flooding, or interfere with the production
of hydroelectric power.
Ice management practices must consider
short- and long-term impacts on the Croton
River and Bay and Haverstraw Bay
significant fish and wildlife habitats.
The state coastal policy regarding the
development of energy resources is not
applicable to Croton.

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 12

30

30A

30B

31

31A

32

33

33A

33B

34

WATER
AND
AIR
RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited
to,
toxic
and
hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to state and national water quality
standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose any
materials in coastal waters until such
materials have been tested by the state for
conformance with water quality standards.
Storage and disposal of all materials shall
be monitored by the state to assure there
will be no discharge or leaching of
materials into coastal waters.
State coastal area policies and purposes
of approved local waterfront revitalization
programs will be considered while
reviewing coastal water classifications and
while modifying water quality standards;
however, those waters already overburdened with contaminants will be
recognized as being a development
constraint.
Clean water is desired and NYSDEC
should continually monitor water quality in
the Hudson River and Croton Bay which
have already been overburdened with
pollutants.
Recommendations
for
mitigation and upgrading water quality
classifications cannot be determined
without continual monitoring and testing of
the waters.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used
to ensure the control of storm water runoff
and combined sewer overflows draining
into coastal waters.
Encourage new developments to retain
storm water runoff on site so as to not
increase flows within the existing system
or to improve existing storm water runoff
systems to that runoff from such
developments does not adversely impact
coastal waters
Improve existing Village storm water
discharge to control flow of pollutants from
street and parking areas, etc. directly in
the rivers.
Discharge of waste into coastal waters

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 13

34A
35

36

37

37A

37B

38

39

39A

from vessels will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply areas.
There shall be no discharge from moored
structures or marine vessels, due to shape
of cove and lack of tidal flushing.
Dredging and dredge spoil disposal in
coastal waters will be undertaken in a
manner that meets existing state dredging
permit
requirements,
and
protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic
resources, natural protective features,
important agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at lease minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these
spills occur.
Best Management Practices will be utilized
to minimize the non-point discharge of
excess nutrients, organics and eroded
soils into coastal waters.
Standards and specifications for the
control of non-point source discharge as
set forth in Westchester County's Best
Management Practice Manual or other
recognized reference shall be utilized
during development of any site.
Control of the development of hilltops, and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid wastes, particularly
hazardous wastes, within coastal areas
will be conducted in such a manner so as
to protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Require transporters, producers and
storers of hazardous material to inform the
public or allow public access to records
involving the transport, storage, treatment
and disposal of hazardous materials. This
is of particular concern with respect to rail
transport of such materials, storage of
identified materials on railroad property

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 14

39B

40

41
41A
42

43

43A

43B

44
44A

and uses in the waterfront area involved in
the treatment, storage and disposal of
such materials.
In accordance with Title III, Section 302,
Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to- Know of the 1986 Superfund
Reauthorization Act, the local emergency
planning committee and the Croton Fire
Department shall be notified if hazardous
substances exceed the established
threshold planning quantity
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to state water quality standards.
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or state air
quality standards to be violated
A NYSDEC point-source air monitoring
station should be established within the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the state reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of the acid rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
Encourage the use of shuttle bus service
to the train station, thereby decreasing
dependency on the automobile use and
reduce the generation of acid rain
precursors
Encourage the use of low sulphur fossil
fuels for rail vehicles and encourage the
development of a monitoring program to
assess rail vehicle engines emissions
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.

No

No

No
No
No

No

No

No

No
No

5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none.
6. PUBLIC COMMENT - AGENDA ITEMS

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 15

Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he supports the
Village receiving a commendation for its Accessory Dwelling Unit legislation,
but does not understand why the Village is not counting upgraded properties
or Accessory Dwelling Units in the Village’s target or goal for housing. Mr.
Riley also acknowledged local hero Sojourner Truth, who authored a powerful
book about her life as a slave in the Hudson Valley and encouraged everyone
to read her book and suggested that the Board name something in her
honor. Mr. Riely stated that the IDEA Committee has become very influential
in our community and their meetings need to be open to the public. Mr.
Riely stated that he is also outraged that a homeowner on Melrose Avenue is
being charged $12,000 for a Playground Fee.
Resolution Approving the Consent Agenda
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approved the Consent Agenda.
Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote.
Trustee Simon stated that he is pleased that the Village is being recognized
for all their hard work as detailed in the correspondence listed below.
Village Manager Healy addressed the comment regarding adding ADU’s and
single-family homes to our inventory. Village Manager Healy advised that all
our information is submitted to the Census Bureau and every housing unit is
counted for that purpose, the Village was also re-certified with the ProHousing Communities Program and as part of that re-certification they asked
for an update of all our housing units that included ADU’s, Accessory
Apartments, as well as Single Family homes and Multi-Family units.
Village Manager Healy addressed a comment with regards to Parkland Fees,
Village Manager Healy explained that even though the property on Melrose
Avenue was already sub-divided, the property owner was still required to pay
this fee since they are adding a new single-family home. Village Manager
Healy stated that under this revised law, the Board put in a sliding scale that
would reflect the type of development and the fee reflects the nature of this
development.
Trustee Simon stated that he was at the meeting when this was addressed
and the applicant stated that he understood this and fully supported it.
7. CONSENT AGENDA:

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 16

a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Membership Changes from the Croton Fire Department
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202505/80f673bf27b42657baac143c653f79884cc244af.pdf
2. Letter from the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department requesting the
acceptance of a donation of five laptops from State Farm Insurance and
the National Volunteer Fire Council.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202505/e00885f989ac7f9e27b0340934607175bcc9cd03.pdf
3. Email from Hannah DiLiberto of the New York Conference of Mayors
announcing the Village as the recipient of the Local Government
Achievement Award for the train station solar canopy project.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202505/ae60a8cdf597464a6dc56e4a25cdf94b3fad0060.pdf
4. Letter from Janet Giris of the Westchester Municipal Planning
Federation announcing the Village as the recipient of a Commendation for
its Accessory Dwelling Unit legislation.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202505/574bac701e16dff08521372528a13b06f4c5cc7d.pdf
5. Letter from Janet Giris of the Westchester Municipal Planning
Federation announcing Christine Wagner as the recipient of the Citizen
Planner Award for her work on the Village's Zoning Board of Appeals.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202505/634afdd08e4f2b734ef3b4e925b56ef145708088.pdf
6. Email from Marie Roche of Teatown Lake Reservation requesting use of
Silver Lake Park for a Trout Release on May 22, 2025.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202505/ce666559fce9be57c319344c01992ea5b8e32c19.pdf
7. Email from Essence Britt-Reid on the Proposed Harriet Tubman
Underground Railroad Byway.

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 17

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202505/41e122499bba6a9b178451658e3f638f743dd1cb.pdf
8. Email from Cristina Alvarez-Arnold of the IDEA Committee requesting
approval to fly the Juneteenth Flag at the Municipal Building.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202505/de8c5cea3a3f4393d7fd97cae530ca7b76ce2156.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #95-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program was
approved by referendum in 2003, and
WHEREAS Article 11-A of the New York State General Municipal Law requires that
the list of Fire Department members indicating those who earned a year of service
credit during the calendar year, those that did not earn a year of credit, and those
who waived participation must be certified under oath by the Fire Department, and
WHEREAS this list was approved by the Village Board at its meeting of March 26,
2025, and posted for 30 days, and
WHEREAS the Mayor must sign off on the final list to be submitted to the program
administrator, Penflex,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Mayor to execute the Sponsor Authorization Form for the Croton-onHudson Fire Department Length of Service Award Program for 2024.
Resolution #96-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village provides taxi companies the opportunity to rent the spaces at
the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot for the convenience of commuters and

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 18

WHEREAS the contract with Croton Harmon Car Service (dba J&S Taxi) is expiring,
on May 31, 2025; and
WHEREAS an updated agreement has been drafted for the period of June 1, 2025,
through May 31, 2027, and
WHEREAS the agreement provides for a rental fee of $150 per space per month,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the agreement with Croton Harmon Car Service (dba J&S Taxi) for the
period beginning June 1, 2025, through May 31, 2027.
Resolution #97-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003, and
WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village fees through Board
Resolutions, and
WHEREAS the Village would like to establish a separate vendor fee for the
upcoming Juneteenth event,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
amends the 2024-2025 Master Fee Schedule and 2025-2026 Master Fee Schedule
as follows:

Events Fees
Juneteenth

§122-4

All vendors

$25.00

Resolution #98-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 19

WHEREAS the Village would like to add Chapter 80, Bicycles and Scooters, and
amend Chapter 219, Unlicensed Motor-Driven Vehicles, of the Village Code to allow
for the operation of bicycles with electric assist, and electric scooters, and
WHEREAS the Village has been partnering with neighboring communities to launch
Project MOVER, an e-bikeshare program designed to enhance mobility and provide
environmentally friendly transportation alternatives, this year, and
WHEREAS the New York State Vehicle & Traffic Law requires municipalities to adopt
such a law before a system such as Project MOVER can operate, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 7 of 2025, which has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing to be held on June 11, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2025, to add Chapter 80,
Bicycles and Scooters, and amend Chapter 219, Unlicensed Motor-Driven Vehicles,
of the Village Code to allow for the operation of bicycles with electric assist and
electric scooters.
Resolution #99-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has received a special permit renewal application from
Verizon Wireless for a colocation of the personal wireless services facility located at
26 Veterans Plaza in the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, and
WHEREAS Chapter 206, Telecommunications Towers, of the Village Code requires
the Board of Trustees to renew the special permit at five-year intervals to
determine whether technology has changed, and
WHEREAS the initial special permit was issued in 2010, and was renewed in 2015
and 2020,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on June 11, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider the

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 20

special permit renewal application from Verizon Wireless for a colocation of the
personal wireless services facility located at 26 Veterans Plaza in the CrotonHarmon Train Station parking lot.
Resolution #100-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Recreation Department hires part-time personnel to teach various
programs and classes throughout the year, and
WHEREAS due to changing regulations from the federal government, individuals
that were previously paid as independent contractors are now being paid as parttime employees; and
WHEREAS the change in status requires a budget transfer within the Recreation
Department budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
make the following budget transfer in the 2024-2025 General Fund budget:

GENERAL FUND EXPENSES
Increase:
A7140.1100

Comm. Rec. – P/T Personnel

$3,000

Decrease:
A7140.4000

Comm. Rec. - Contractual

$3,000

Resolution #101-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has received $65,000 in grant funds from NYSERDA related to
energy efficiency projects, and
WHEREAS the Sustainability Committee has recommended that such funding be set
aside for additional electric vehicle chargers at the train station parking lot, and

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 21

WHEREAS the funds must be transferred from the General Fund to the Capital Fund
so they will be available in the next fiscal year,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
make the following budget transfer:

CAPITAL FUND REVENUES
Increase:
H1000.3097.25513

State Aid – EV Chargers

$65,000

GENERAL FUND REVENUES
Decrease:
A1000.3089

State Aid - Other

$65,000

c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of the Regular Meeting held
on April 23, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on May 7,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
8. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #102-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS on December 4, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees approved the
renewal of a special permit for the operation of a motor vehicle repair garage at
485 S. Riverside Avenue, and
WHEREAS this special permit is set to expire June 15, 2025, and must be renewed
in accordance with the Zoning Chapter of the Village Code, and
WHEREAS Marco Ordonez, the owner of M & J Auto Repair Corp., has submitted a
special permit renewal application with the appropriate fee, and
WHEREAS renewal of the special permit does not require an environmental review,

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 22

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers
the renewal of the special permit application for a motor vehicle repair garage to
the Village Planning Board for a recommendation back to the Village Board of
Trustees as required by law.
Resolution #103-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Village Law § 7-724 provides for the ability of a Village to adopt an
official map showing the streets, highways and parks theretofore laid out, and
WHEREAS revisions to the official map of the Village were last adopted on January
24, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village has received an offer of dedication for a portion of Jasper
Road,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby refers
the official map of the Village to the Planning Board for review and comment, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby schedules a
Public Hearing on June 11, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider the adoption of
the official map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, as revised.
Resolution #104-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, from time to time, receives permits
from the New York State Dept. of Transportation (NYSDOT), and
WHEREAS these permits are in conjunction with work affecting state highways that
run through the Village, and
WHEREAS the NYSDOT has provided an undertaking form for the benefit of the New
York State Dept. of Transportation, and

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 23

WHEREAS this agreement is generally required to perform permitted work within
and along the state’s right-of-way,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the NYSDOT Form PERM 1, Undertaking for the Benefit of the New York
State Dept. of Transportation.
Resolution #105-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Buchanan does not currently have a dog control officer,
and
WHEREAS the Village of Buchanan and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson (“the
Villages”) have a long history of working together, and
WHEREAS the Village of Buchanan has requested that the Village of Croton-onHudson provide dog control services for their community, and
WHEREAS an intermunicipal agreement has been drafted for a term of one year to
authorize the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to provide these services to the Village of
Buchanan, and
WHEREAS it is the desire of the Villages to enter into this Agreement pursuant to
the provisions of the General Municipal Law, and
WHEREAS in addition to the base cost of $1,200, the Village of Buchanan would be
responsible for any overtime incurred by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson for dog
control services in their community,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the dog control intermunicipal agreement
with the Village of Buchanan for the period of one year.
Resolution #106-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 24

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has received grant funding in the
amount of $425,000 from NYSERDA to fund sustainable energy projects in the
Village, and
WHEREAS the Village is exploring the feasibility of installing a solar canopy at the
DPW Garage, and
WHEREAS Sustainable Westchester has supplied an agreement to provide project
management services in the amount of $4,000, and
WHEREAS Lindsay Audin, the chair of the Village’s Sustainability Committee, will
assist Sustainable Westchester in managing the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the agreement with Sustainable
Westchester in the not-to-exceed amount of $4,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such expense shall be charged to account T94002.
Resolution #107-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is desirous of retaining a firm to assist
with locating grant opportunities for Village projects and completing the necessary
tasks to apply for such grants, and
WHEREAS the Village has received a proposal from Nelson Pope and Voorhis
(“NPV”) of Suffern, New York, to provide such services, and
WHEREAS NPV has also provided a proposal to conduct application reviews for the
Planning Board, and
WHEREAS the retaining of a planning consultant was one of the seven tasks
identified by the Engineering Department review plan undertaken by the Village,
and
WHEREAS all costs related to application reviews for the Planning Board will be
borne by the applicant,

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 25

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the agreement with Nelson Pope and
Voorhis of Suffern, New York.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that Nelson Pope and Voorhis has worked with a
number of communities in Westchester County and they have been particularly
successful in securing large grants from New York State, we were impressed with
their presentation and having their expertise will be beneficial to the Village.
Resolution #108-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson solicited sealed bids for the Harmon
Firehouse HVAC system under Bid No. 3-2025, and
WHEREAS on February 26, 2025, the Village Board awarded the bid to HVAC Now
Inc. in the amount of $150,000, and
WHEREAS it has since been determined that the size of the condensing units needs
to be increased from 14-ton to 16-ton, and
WHEREAS it has further been determined to use ceiling hung units instead of wallmounted units for the system, and
WHEREAS HVAC Now has submitted a change order in the amount of $32,000 for
this work,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute Change Order No. 1 with HVAC Now Inc. in the amount of $32,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this project has been allocated in capital
accounts H3410.2102.09190 and H4540.2102.23445.
Resolution #109-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 26

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has requested authorization for the
adjudication of traffic control signal indications, commonly known as a red-light
camera system, and
WHEREAS such a system would be limited to no more than three intersections in
the Village, and
WHEREAS Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg has introduced bill A8360 in the State
Assembly to authorize the adjudication of traffic control signal indications in the
Village, and
WHEREAS State Senator Peter Harckham has introduced companion bill S7791 in
the State Senate regarding same, and
WHEREAS the Village is required to formally submit a home rule request to the
legislature,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
requests authorization for the adjudication of traffic control signal indications,
commonly known as a red-light camera system, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this home rule request be sent to State
Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg and State Senator Peter Harckham.
Resolution #110-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has requested the ability to collect a 3%
occupancy tax on hotels and motels, including short-term rentals, and
WHEREAS Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg has introduced bill A8348 in the State
Assembly to authorize the imposition of a hotel/motel occupancy tax in the Village,
and
WHEREAS State Senator Peter Harckham has introduced companion bill S7790 in
the State Senate regarding same, and
WHEREAS the Village is required to formally submit a home rule request to the
legislature,

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 27

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
requests permission to collect a 3% occupancy tax on hotels and motels, including
short-term rentals, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this home rule request be sent to State
Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg and State Senator Peter Harckham.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy stated that many municipalities through New York State and
Westchester have received this authorization, and because it has been expanded to
short-term rentals it behooves Croton to get the authority to consider it. Village
Manager Healy advised that this law does not apply to regular residential rentals,
there is a clause in the law that if you are staying in a place for more than three
months, it would not apply.
Resolution 111-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village recently had to repave a portion of the RiverWalk at Croton
Landing, and
WHEREAS the repaving was necessary due to damage caused by tree roots uplifting
portions of the walkway and high tides from storm events undermining portions of
the walkway, and
WHEREAS funding for such work was not included in the 2024-2025 General Fund
Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the 2024-2025 General Fund Budget as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A7110.4000

GENERAL REVENUES

Parks – Contractual

$11,343.30

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 28

Increase
A1000.2401

Interest & Earnings

$11,343.30

Resolution #112-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees approved the execution of a Payment in Lieu of
Taxes (PILOT) Agreement (“Agreement”) with Maple Commons, and
WHEREAS the first payment under this Agreement was received in April 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village received the full payment and is responsible for paying out the
other taxing entities under the terms of the Agreement,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to amend
the 2024-2025 General Fund Budget as follows:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A1955.4000

Payments in Lieu of Taxes – Contractual

$19,954.79

Other Payments in Lieu of Taxes

$19,954.79

GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A1000.1081

9. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed his concerns
regarding sign pollution throughout the Village, commended the Village on
the beautiful job at Gotwald Circle, and addressed abortion issues, to hear
Mr. Riley’s comments in its entirety you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1048 (00.48.41).
10.REPORTS:

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 29

Trustee Politi emphasized that all committee meetings are noticed and open
to the public including the IDEA committee and stressed that everyone
should do their own research regarding comments made this evening on
abortion.
Trustee Nicholson advised that the Gouveia Sub-Committee Task Force met
and went over some architectural drawings, thanked the Conservation
Advisory Council for putting together a fantastic Earth Day celebration, the
Lorraine Hansberry Committee had a wonderful presentation at the Unitarian
Church which will continue through this weekend, for more information you
may
log
onto
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/the-clark-legacy-closingreception-a-conversation-with-dr-laruth-gray-tickets-1359283857609,
the
bike giveaway was a huge success and thanked the Police Department, Police
Advisory Committee and Croton Caring for putting this wonderful program
together.
Trustee Simon advised that on April 24th he attended the annual meeting of
Sustainable Westchester, on April 25th he attended a presentation at PVC by
Scarlett Lewis, the mother of Jessie Lewis who was killed during the Sandy
Hook shootings in 2012, Ms. Lewis has created the “Choose Love Movement”
and speaks to Middle Schools throughout the country to address the causes
that lead to rage and violence, on April 25th a ribbon cutting ceremony was
held for La Catrina, trees were planted at Gotwald Circle in recognition of
Arbor Day and thanked our DPW crew and Garden Club for their assistance,
on April 26th a successful Drug Take Back Day was held and thanked the
Rotary and Police Department for their hard work in putting this together,
advised that we received a check from the IRS as part of the “Inflation
Reduction Act for the Washington Engine solar roof project and thanked
Lindsay Audin and our Finance Department who worked with the IRS in
getting these funds, attended the Fire Council Meeting on April 29th, on May
6th the Planning Board continued their hearing on the 1 Croton Point Avenue
project, on May 7th a meeting was held with our local businesses,
Westchester Municipal Officials Association held their monthly meeting last
week where the County Executive addressed budgetary impacts as a
reflection of what is going on in Washington, and on May 10th he attended
the Bennett Conservatory 75th Anniversary celebration.
Village Attorney Subin stated that the IDEA Committee is an advisory
committee and they do not have delegated authority under law, under those
circumstances, as a purely advisory committee, they do not necessarily fall

Village Board of Trustees
May 14, 2025
Page 30

under the Open Meetings Law and while the law does not require them to
conduct meetings in public, he understands they do.
Mayor Pugh congratulated the Conservation Advisory Council on a wonderful
Earth Day celebration, thanked the Croton Caring Committee, Police Advisory
Committee and Police Department for the successful bike give-away, met
with the Conservation Advisory Council and discussed the continued review
of possible Dark Skies legislation and received an update on the Natural
Resource Inventory which is being conducted jointly with the Town of
Cortlandt and the Village of Croton, reminded everyone that enforcement of
our leaf blowing and idling laws are in effect, a clean-up organized by the
Conservation Advisory Council will be held this Saturday, 9am, for more
information you may log onto the Village’s web site.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board of
Trustees approved the appointment of Orit Daly to the Arts and Humanities
Council.
Village Manager Healy advised that a Hoedown will be held on May 17th with
a May 18th rain date, this Sunday our Village Historian will lead a history
walk at Croton Landing followed by the HEART Committee’s Plaque
Dedication for Ed Rondthaler, next Friday Shoprite will be honoring our
Veterans at the Fox Eklof America Legion Post 505 where they will be
presenting them with a $5,000 check, on May 26th Village offices will be
closed for Memorial Day and the Village will hold their Memorial Day
ceremony at 11am at Veterans Corners.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson approved with a 4-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:11pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

