Croton Conservation Advisory Council
Minutes
September 10, 2024
Attendance: Janet, Halle, Steve, John, Lance, Rachel, Sherry, Nora
Recording Secretary
Schedule for the next few months:
October ?
November Lance
December Rachel
January Sherry
February Halle
Approval of July Minutes
One correction per Halle regarding lights at Black Rock. The lights should be on a
motion sensor, not a timer.
The July minutes were approved.
Repair Café and Earth Day Update
We had 51 people bring 71 items for repair with a 69% success rate. That is 49
items. Our next Repair Café will be on Saturday, Jan, 11 same time and place.
Janet will email Bryan Healy regarding a snow date.
Earth Day will be on Saturday, May 3 with a rain date of May 10
Open Call for Project Proposals
The village is requesting proposal ideas to apply for a grant regarding revitalizing
downtown areas. Janet emailed Terry for him to send in ideas for trails. Some
other suggestions were changing the lighting to dark skies friendly solutions, and
structural soil for planting trees.
Dark Skies/Light Pollution Update
Lance has been working on this event over the summer. Green Living Series will be
on Tuesday, Oct 29 7-8:30 at the library. Carles Fulco from Dark Skies will be
presenting. They are very excited to be participating. Charles will be discussing
what it is and what it means, animal and plant welfare, and taxpayer savings.

Dark Skies International has sample local ordinance for us to review. The Town of
Cortlandt recently passed a Dark Skies Ordinance. Nora is going to contact them
for more information.
CLEAN
John has received the final approval for the adoption of 9/a from Municipal Place
to Foodtown area. There will be a plaque displayed. John, along with the village,
will make a formal announcement soon.
CLEAN will be cosponsoring a clean-up at the train station with Temple Isreal and
Repair the Sea on Saturday, September 29 at 3:30 PM. It will be in the bay area.
There will be an additional site at Senasqua Park for families.
Habitat Garden Plaques
Halle brought a sample of the Pollinator Pathway plague. A CCAC label will be put
on the back. A stake will need to attached so the plaque can be put in the ground.
The total price would be approximately $20. a piece. Janet will email Bryan Healy
to see which budget line the funds will be taken from. The plan is to have one on
display for Earth Day and then take orders.
Update New Tree Ordinance Workshop and Required Workplace Courses –
Trustee Nicholson emailed Bryan Healy regarding these two items.
Here is the response.
The tree policy will not be included in the work session for next week. However,
we hope to see it soon because it has been idling for a while.
For the question on gas blowers we do send letters if there is a complaint made.
However our expectation is voluntary adherence. The Board could update the
code where to allow sworn complaints to be prima facie evidence which would
allow the Village to issue violations. I think the Board would open to having this
conversation if the CAC is interested in us taking it up.
Lastly, here is Bryan's answer on trainings:
The labor law detailing the workplace violence program requires all public
employees to comply. The definition of “public employee” from the Civil Service
Law:
The term “public employee” means any person holding a position by

appointment or employment in the service of a public employer.
You have been appointed to your position and serve a public employer. The
guidance is clear that you must participate in the training. This has been
confirmed, once again, by the attorneys at the New York Conference of Mayors.

Next meeting
November 12

