Planning Board Meeting Minutes
November 5th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
ABSENT: Ian W. Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of November 5, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARINGS

a) Bourdon, Jesse, Croton Free Library- 171 Cleveland Drive (79.05-1-23) Amended Site
Plan for Three Book Bins
Steve Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, by a
vote of 5 - 0.
Library director Jesse Bourdon was again present in support of the application to place three book bins
at the rear of the property. The library uses the bins to store books which are no longer of use within the
library. Bay State Books picks up books in the bins and donates them to various organizations . The
bins are not for public use. The library requests that the public bring donated books inside the library
during business hours, as the library staff prefer to review the donated books. However, the applicant
stated that book donations are left outside the library after hours approximately every two weeks.
Chairman Luntz suggested simple signage asking patrons to make donations during business
hours. The applicant stated that if it became a more regular occurrence, he would send a message to all
library patrons, requesting that they only donate books during the library's business hours.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the public, and there being none, Steve Krisky made a motion to
close the public hearing, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 - 0.
Chairman Luntz read the resolution, with two conditions, the first that the bins be painted, within 30 days,
a natural green color to better blend in with the surrounding vegetation. The applicant agreed to this
condition, but noted that it would be dependent on the weather, and the Planning Board was okay with
this stipulation. The second condition was that evergreen shrubs/trees be planted to screen the book
bins from adjacent properties, and the applicant agreed to this condition, noting that the planting would
take place in the Spring of 2025.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the resolution for Jesse Bourdon's Amended Site Plan
Application for the Croton Free Library, for three book bins, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion
carried, 5 -0.

1

b) Fuller, Sean - 130 Grand Street (79.05-1-57) Amended Site Plan Approval for the
Addition of Dormers
Geoff Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion
carried, 5 - 0.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience, and there being none, Steve Krisly made a motion
to close the public hearing, second by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 -0.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve resolution for Sean Fuller's Amended Site Plan Application for
the addition of dormers at 130 Grand Street, seconded by John Ghegan and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Cornell, Dennis, 19 Arrowcrest Drive (67.15-1-42) Building Envelope Modification to
Install an lnground Pool

Homeowner Dennis Cornell was present in support of the application. The applicant described his
intended project, the installation of an inground pool with a surrounding patio in his backyard, as well
within his property lines. Chairman Luntz explained the building envelope, and noted that the applicant
is in a particularly steep area, and questioned if some of the existing retaining walls would need to be
modified. The applicant said that the pool would be well away from the wall. The applicant was asked
how the construction vehicles would access the pool site, which was not clear on the plans. The
Planning Board asked that the site plan be revised to show the location of the construction path.
The applicant stated that there would be temporary fencing during construction and a fence around the
pool when it is complete. The applicant noted that the lower portion of his driveway is shared with a
neighbor, and that the neighbors are friends and are aware of the project.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve a building envelope change for 19 Arrowcrest Drive, with the
requirement that the site plan be amended to include changes discussed this evening by the Planning
Board, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 5-0.
b) Referral from the Village Board of Trustees to review draft local law introductory No. 12 of
2024, amending the Zoning Law of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, Chapter 230, to
align the zoning regulations with current planning and development needs.
In the proposed law, a boarder or roomer is defined as:
"A person who permanently occupies a room in a single-family dwelling unit for sleeping
purposes for which they pay compensation to the property owner."

Currently, under Village code, you can have up to three boarders in the RB district, and one boarder in
other residential districts, with no permits required, and no oversight. The Planning Board had many
questions, and wanted to clarify how the word "Permanently" will be determined.
The Planning Board also had questions regarding a distinction between family members, such as adult
children who move back in with their parents, or elderly parents who move in with adult children as they
are in need of care. The Planning Board asked about the purpose of the law, and Dan O'Connor said
that it was for the Village to have regulatory oversight.
Eva Thaddeus asked how a boarder was different from a roommate. Steve Krisky asked about Airbnbs,
noting that the Board of Trustees has not addressed the topic of short-term rentals, as they were waiting
for NY State to draft new codes.

2

The Planning Board did not feel that the draft law was clear enough to make a proper recommendation,
specifically regarding the definition of a "Boarder." Other than the boarder section, the Planning Board
had no objections with the other changes proposed in the law.
Gary Eisinger of 210 Cleveland Drive spoke and had questions regarding draft local law 12, including
why the Board of Trustees made no notations as to why these changes were proposed, and how this
would affect Airbnbs. Gary Eisinger also wondered if renters could sublet, wanted clarification on family
members, and how a boarder permit could be renewed. Gary Eisinger noted that boarders are usually
people in financial straits, helping someone who is in financial straits, so what would the permit cost be.
Sandra Kolk of 114 Elmore Avenue also spoke and had two questions for the Planning Board, the first
being whether they had reconsidered the recommendation on accessory cottages/auxiliary apartments
in light of the issues that were raised by property owners in Harmon where the apartments are
encroaching on their privacy and will therefore impact their property values. The second question asked
by Mrs. Kolk was about the proposed building at 325 South Riverside Avenue, the new location for Save
Mor Pharmacy, which Mrs. Kolk believes is utterly architecturally incompatible with anything in the
surrounding area, and looks like a box store on Route 6. Mrs. Kolk wonders if the Planning Board can
request that the fa9ade is redesigned to be contiguous and compatible with, for example the Baked by
Susan building, or even Maple Commons.
Rob Luntz addressed the first comment, and stated that the Village Board of Trustees enacted a law
regarding accessory cottages, and suggested that Mrs. Kolk can speak to the Village Board of Trustees.
Steve Krisky addressed the second question, regarding the proposed Save Mor Pharmacy, saying that
is not on the current Planning Board agenda, but it will be back in front of the Planning Board before it is
approved.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes October 15th, 2024

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of October 15th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

5.

ADJOURNMENT

John Ghegan made a motion to adjourn the Planning Board meeting of November 5th , 2024, seconded by
Rob Luntz, and carried by a vote of 5-0, and the meeting adjourned at 7:57 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended, on Tuesday, December 17th , with a motion by Steve Krisky,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 5 - 0***

3

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on November 5th , 2024, the Planning Board held a public hearing on an
Amended Site Plan application for three book bins submitted by the Jesse Bourdon,
Director of the Croton Free Library, on behalf of the Croton Free Library, hereafter known
as "the Applicant." The subject property is located at 171 Cleveland Drive and
designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.05 Block 1
Lot23;and
WHEREAS, the proposal is for the legalization of three existing book bins; and
WHEREAS, the amended site plan application was first reviewed on October 15, 2024
prior to scheduling a public hearing on November 5, 2024; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required, and
WHEREAS, the Public Hearing was closed on November 5, 2024; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the amended site plan application as
shown on a photograph received by Engineer's office on September 30, 2024, submitted
by Jesse Bourdon, Director of the Croton Free Library on behalf of the Croton Free
Library; be approved, subject to the following condition:

1. That the three book bins are painted in a natural green color that will better
blend in with the surrounding vegetation in the next thirty days, weather
permitting, and
2. That additional evergreen shrubs/trees be planted to screen the book bins
from adjacent properties in the Spring of 2025.
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted
within three years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall
become null and void.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, by a vote
of 5 to 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on November 5, 2024.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board held a public hearing for an Amended Site Plan application on October
15, 2024, for Sean Fuller hereafter known as "the Applicant." The subject property, is located at 130
Grand Street in a C-1 Central Commercial District and designated on the Tax Map of the Village ofCrotonon-Hudson as Section 79.05 Block 1 Lot 57; and
WHEREAS, this amended site plan application is for the addition of two small dormers to accommodate
height codes for the mezzanine section of the building; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality Review
Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was opened and closed on November 5th, 2024; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Amended Site Plan application as shown on the plans
entitled Grand Street Performance Restaurant, Bar, Gallery and Performance Space Sheet A2.0 entitled
"Building Sections/Elevations", Sheet A3.0 entitled "Exterior Elevations and Details," Sheet A2. l entitled
"Building Sections Elevations Details" Sheet A 1.0 entitled "Lower and Main Level Floorplans," Sheet S 1.0
entitled "Site Plan Modifications Improvements", Sheet Al. l entitled "Upper and Roof Level Floorplans"
prepared by Christopher Borchardt, of cbdb architecture, Cortlandt Manor, NY, last revised August 5th,
2024, be approved subject to the following conditions:

1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, all other conditions on the original Amended Site Plan approval issued by the
Planning Board on March 5111, 2024 remain in effect.
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three years of
the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and void. Any application
for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration date.

The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Steve Krisky, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 5 - 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, November 5th, 2024.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board approved the Arrowcrest Subdivision on March
15, 1994;and
WHEREAS, each lot in the Arrowcrest Subdivision had a building envelope
defined for it, beyond which no construction could occur without approval of the
Planning Board; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 200 feet of said property has been
duly executed; and
WHEREAS, Dennis Cornell, owner of Lot #24 in the Arrowcrest Subdivision (19
Arrowcrest Drive - Tax Map# Sec. 67.15 Blk. 1 Lot 42) has requested an
expansion of that lot's building envelope for a proposed new 20 x 40-foot
inground pool and surrounding patio at the existing single-family dwelling; and
WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review
Act (SEQRA), the Planning Board has determined that this project is a Type II
Action, and no Negative Declaration is required.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the modification of the building
envelope, as shown on the drawing titled "Site Improvements Sheet 3" prepared
by John M. Scavelli, P.E., of JMS Engineering Services, PC for 19 Arrowcrest
Drive, be approved, with the following condition:
1) That the site plan presented, drawing titled: Site Improvements, Sheet 3
prepared by John M. Scavelli, P.E. for the project titled 19 Arrowcrest
Drive, Croton-on-Hudson, NY, be amended to include changes
discussed at this meeting by the Planning Board
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently
prosecuted within three years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan,
such site plan shall become null and void.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by
a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on November 5th , 2024.

