Planning Board Meeting Minutes
April 16th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

0 ffl@mJ

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of April 16th, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m .
2.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Moir, Lisa, MG's Homemade LLC, OBA The Blue Pig- 121 Maple Street (78.8-7-7)
Amended Site Plan Application to convert off-street parking spaces into a patio area with
outdoor tables and chairs

Lisa Moir was present in support of the application . The applicant stated that she went to the Zoning
Board and obtained a variance to eliminate off-street parking spaces in front of her business, with a
condition that she apply to the Planning Board for amended site plan approval. Chairman Luntz advised
the applicant that a public hearing is required for an amended site plan application .
Chairman Luntz stated that there is an issue with Department of Transportation and either the applicant
or the landlord will have to work with the Department of Transportation regarding the curb cut, as this is
not a Planning Board issue. The issue is that there is a curb cut in front of this business, and NY Vehicle
and Traffic Law states that "Stopping, standing, or parking is prohibited in specified places, including:
Alongside or obstructing a curb area which has been cut down, lowered, or constructed so as to provide
accessibility to the sidewalk," so as it is now, there is no on-street parking allowed in front of The Blue
Pig.
John Ghegan made a motion to call for a Public Hearing at the next meeting, scheduled for May 7, 2024,
seconded by Steve Krisky, 5-0.
Dan O'Connor pulled up Google Street view to show where exactly the three parking spots in question
were located. The applicant reported that when she went before the Zoning Board, there was a serious
discussion about safety. The applicant wants to be on record to say that she has been on Maple Street
for 14 years and is there every day and that traffic has increased significantly. It is a confusing, busy
intersection at Old Post Road South and Maple Street. The applicant reported that she herself was in an
accident backing out of the parking spaces, and in separate instances, two children were hit by cars,
thankfully no one was seriously injured.
Eva Thaddeus stated that she was glad to see the parking spaces go as she thought they were
hazardous and that the space is now more pedestrian friendly. The applicant stated that she made the
changes in 2020, during the pandemic when she added outdoor seating where the parking spaces were
and she would like to keep it this way.

1

b) Lindsay Audin, Chairman of Groton's Sustainability Committee, Presentation on New
York's Clean Energy Community
Lindsay Audin, Chairman of Groton's Sustainability Committee joined the Planning Board meeting via
Zoom and shared a Power Point presentation which provided a detailed overview of the Clean Energy
Community Program and noted how they have won grants for the Village totaling $632,500. The Power
Point presentation was uploaded to the Village website with the support documents for this meeting.

3.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Carmel Riverside, LLC - 425 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-2-91) - Request for time
extension on resolution issued by Planning Board on January 2nd , 2024.
Carmel Riverside, LLC requested a 30-day time extension to complete the conditions of the resolution
issued on January 2nd , 2024 for the above referenced property. Dan O'Connor spoke to the applicant and
confirmed that some of the conditions have been met and for the others, the work is ongoing.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve a 30-day time extension for to complete the conditions of the
resolution issued by the Planning Board, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes April 2nd , 2024

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of April 2nd, 2024, seconded by
Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

5.
•
•

•
•
•

ENGINEER'S REPORT

Steve Krisky noted that Geoff Haynes will attend an overview of the Clean Path and Champlain
Hudson Power Express project at the Croton Yacht Club on April 26th .
Regarding the Design Center on Albany Post Road, Dan O'Connor said that the applicant was in
discussions with a local engineer about preparing an amended site plan to present to the
Planning Board.
The ShopRite maintenance agreement has not been approved, but Steve Krisky thought that
basic repairs like striping should be taken care of.
Steve Krisky hopes that the Planning Board will have a say in where the clock is placed at Maple
Commons.
A question was asked if anything was being done about the flooding at train station and
Senasqua Park. Trustee Len Simon stated that the Village Board is looking at a variety of
funding sources and that the matter was high on their list of priorities. Dan O'Connor stated that
he was on a Zoom call with a consultant who was looking at the issue and Dan will send him
some plans of the affected areas.

6.

ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
8:53 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
***Minutes approved 5/7/24, as amended, by a vote of 4-0 with Steve Krisky being absent***

2

MOTION
On Tuesday, April 16th, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on
Hudson voted to approve a 30-day time extension to May 15th, 2024,
to complete all the conditions listed on the Resolution dated January
2nd, 2024 for Carmel Riverside, LLC for the property located at 425/485
South Riverside Avenue, Sec. 79.13 Block 2 Lot 91:
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
Eva Thaddeus
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by John Ghegan and
carried in favor by a vote of 5 to O.

Dated: 04/17/2024

