Croton Conservation Advisory Council
Agenda
February 13, 2024
PLACE: Zoom
START TIME: Approximately 7:30pm
END TIME: Approximately 8:40pm
ATTENDING:
Janet Monahan, Chair
Lance Amato
Terry McGarty
Sherry Horowitz
Mayor Brian Pugh
Planning Board Liaison Steven Krisky
Ellen Siracusa , member ex officio
John Ealer
Nora Nicholson
Rachel Bernstein
Eva Taddeus
Not in attendance
● Jamie Czuy
Recording Secretary – Lance Amato
Meeting Began 7:35pm
1. Approval of January Minutes
a. Motion to approve Jan 23rd 2024 meeting were approved
2. Earth Day Update
a. New Vendor - AnnMarie Sasso agreed to join the Earth Day Event as a vendor Cornell
Extension and 4H
b. Vendor Contacts - Link was sent to committee with the spreadsheet of all vendors Janet requested for personal relationship contacts to reach out to and email her if you
know contacts
c. Vendor Confirmation - 15 Vendors have confirmed to date.
d. Vendor Reminder- Janet to issue 2nd email to vendors end of Feb / Early March to all
vendors to confirm interest and participation
e. School Engagement - Sherry to contact schools and will arrange meetings during school
hours to boost interest in the event.

f.

Trees - Eva confirmed they will be receiving trees for the giveaway. Rachel mentioned in
the past students had offered a pledge to receive a tree, can use index cards to offer
pledges. Over all thought is to allow kids to offer their own pledge to reduce carbon
footprint.

g. Signs - will be required by the end of March. Terry to work with Tom on developing
sign. Cost will be roughly $500, but Terry will reconfirm costs and follow for next
meeting
h. Competition will be done to name a Croton Village Flower. Attendees to vote during
Earth Day
3. Tree Committee Update
a. Rachel reported - Croton drafted law was reviewed with Greenberg adopted law as a
reference. ½ way through , it was determined that Croton law was acceptable as
written, but required stern enforcement by the village to work. It was recommended
that a certified arborist be on call and paid to offer service as need.
b. Suggested laws to be added
i. Duty to replace street trees during construction
ii. Strengthen section on purpose of law
iii. Have a certified arborist on call
iv. Other minor items to follow.
c. Brian mentioned that any introduction could be offered by either suggestion or
modification, and the village board will review it.
d. Arborist on Call - there was a suggestion to take someone from DPW to train current
staff member as an arborist. Sherry suggested the potential to share resources from
Greenburg as an alternative. Eva mentioned she has a contact of an arborist - it is not
required for them to live within village limits.
e. Rachel to send wording on Tree Law in advance of the next CAC meeting for the
committee to review prior to the meeting to vote.
4. Dark Skies Committee Update
a. Next committee meeting Feb 20th to review next steps
b. Scott did write a blog on the village newsletter for awareness on the issue.
c. The Dark Skies chapter is interested in being involved in all Croton CAC initiatives the
committee takes on. Janet to keep that chapter up to speed with progress.
d. Sherry - town of Cortlandt is doing first Repair Cafe March 16th, looking for volunteers
for their event

5. Garden Club Update
a. Not Reported
6. CLEAN Update
a. John shared video as an update to the current status of Clean committee
b. Clean Albany Post Rd North with a team of 5 - cleaned up nearly 300 lbs of trash, 10
bags. Old telephone cable from Verizon was found
c. John reviewed the next locations for cleanup, Albany Post Road/Riverside/Gouveia.
John called Brian healy - and is approved to adopt 9A for cleanup
d. What’s next - Saturday March 2nd - 10am Cleanup on North and South Riverside. Eva
had also suggested to install native wildflowers
e. Saturday April 6th - 10am Senasqua Park and Riverwalk in Preparation for Earth Day
celebration.
f.

Collaboration with Cub Pack 28 who is working on Croton Landing 3/23

g. Earth Day - 100 Yard Trash, people sign up to clean up 100 yards around home or
business.
h. John put together an ad/video of Gouveia Park to help raise awareness of CLEAN

i. Terry mentioned that he knows a few people at Verizon and may be willing to contact
them to note all the trash which was left roadside.
7. Trails Update
a. Terry noted that trails will restart the 2nd Saturday of March. Some downed trees
leading to Britton Brook which would require clean up.
8. Town of Cortlandt Repair Café and Swap
a. Janet - noted that the town of Cortlandt has a Swap, and Janet suggested potential for
Croton to have a Swap in the spring. Ellen mentioned that prior experience in sporting
goods, Swap experience was not as successful in another village, but may not have been
marketed well. Sherry noted the Cortlandt one was very successful, and mentioned it
was indoors.
9. Misc
a. Local law 23 - to amendment property maintenance village code. Brian noted that
comments came after adoption of local law. Eva gave public comments on this - Len
simon invited to make language change. Based on Eva notes - village manager is
reviewing with village engineer to verify if amendment may be required on passed law.
i. Definition of Weeds - as uncultivated vegetation vs cultivated vegetation may
have misinterpretation on what is acceptable to remove as a weed.

ii. Determination of this with public - as some neighbors may utilze this as a
misinterpretation of what is wild, controlled growth is unacceptable by
neighboring.
iii. Discussion was done on the definition of what is cultivated, what is actively used
vs what is not. Brian mentioned that it would be in best practice of village code
enforcement for determination of validity of arguments for or against this law.
All actions against this law would not be triggered immediately, but would
require warning and notifications prior to taking any action.
iv. It was encouraged that the CAC offer registration and inventory of sustainable
and actionable gardens which are protected and cataloged as natural habitats.
This opportunity to also encourage property owners to provide their own
v. Eva has plaques which can be used during Earth day which can be used as a
supporter for natural habitats, to support Croton inventory.
1. Criteria - no pesticide
2. Plant native plants
3. Attract Bees
vi. Seamless forms for registration of Croton Native Areas, where CAC can verify
conditions and then mail out plaques.
b. Separate law was passed regarding vacant lots and clean ups, not related to Local Law
23.
c. Nora mentioned there may be a tour of recycling plan in Yonkers, will follow up on dates
d. Brian mentioned a tour in Cortlandt Composting could be done during the weekend.
e. Village is considering implementing textile pickup , the village is organizing this to
schedule collections soon. Textile recycling is a very difficult process and would be a
great offer to the village.
Meeting Ended 8:40

