Croton Fire Department – Fire Council Meeting – May, 27 , 2025
Roll Call: Dinkler
Wardens: Powers, Vlad, Streany, Feminella, Dunn, Skiba, Sarcone, Gilbert, Tucci
Excused: Colombo, Sarcone, Karpoff
Chief Dinkler opened the meeting at 7:21 PM with a Pledge to the Flag and a Moment of
Silence for the Deceased Members. Meeting is dedicated to the memory of Deputy Chief
Thomas “Tex” Dinkler and Samuel Columbo who have both recently passed.
Communications:
Application and letter read from Hook & Ladder requesting Angelo Spinelli be elected to
active membership to Hook & Ladder.
Motion: Skiba/Gilbert to grant Spinelli be elected to active membership effective June 15,
2025. CARRIED
Letter read from WECO requesting Xan Cohen to be moved from PAF to active
membership.
Motion: Feminella/Tucci Xan Cohen be elected to active membership. CARRIED
Letter received from Hook & Ladder advising Fire Council that the transfer request for Dan
Bennett was denied.
Chiefs’ Reports:
Chief Dinkler thanks everyone for their participation in the wake and funeral held recently
for Deputy Chief Dinkler and Assistant Chief Columbo’s father.
Chief Dinkler reports there has been an uptick in recent ﬁres highlighting the 2 structure
ﬁres that occurred. He felt everyone did a great job at Newton Court and Bari Manor.
Summerfest is this Sunday, June 1, 2025. The Department will be setting up a recruitment
table.
Committee Reports:
Parade Committee: John Delaney reports on upcoming parades, and companies should
indicate as to whether they would like to attend the Westchester County Convention in
September at the June Council meeting.
Donation Drive Committee: Adam Decker working on 501(c) and dealing with the State
Comptroller’s office. Chief Dinkler indicated he will handle the fund drive going forward.
New E119 Committee: Waiting for drawings and draft speciﬁcations which should be
received by the end of the week.

By-Law Committee: Meeting scheduled for June 4, 2025, to review proposed amendment
to membership by-law.
LOSAP Committee: Will need to further discuss and ﬁnd someone to replace Deputy
Chief Dinkler.
Big Bucks Committee: Drawing on June 1, 2025. Each Company must submit a $3K
check to the Council Treasurer as soon as possible.
Fire Prevention Committee: To be led by Thomas Kaplan.
At 7:38 p.m. the FD was summoned to an incident on Rte. 9 northbound. Tree down and
multiple vehicles involved with injuries.
Meeting adjourned at 7:38 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Joseph Streany
Secretary Pro Temp

