Planning Board Meeting Minutes
March 5th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

N

I'

'

L!_J

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of March 5th, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.
Chairman Luntz opened the meeting by recognizing former Planning Board Chairperson Ann Gallelli and
expressing heartfelt thanks for her years of work for the Village of Croton on Hudson. Chairman Luntz
offered condolences to Ann Gallelli's family and called for a moment of silence in her memory.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING

a) Fuller, Sean - 130 Grand Street (79.05-1-57) Change of Use and Amended Site Plan
Applications for Proposed Cafe/Theatre
The Public Hearing remains open from February 6th , 2024.
Applicant Sean Fuller was present in support of the application, as well as his new architect, Chris
Borchardt. Based on square footage of main floor, there is capacity for 50 people and an upstairs
mezzanine area with two staircases going up that would have a capacity of 25 additional people, and
would be used for special events The space could be rented out for community events, and is also a
great place to view a performance. The plans, as presented, are not final, but as close to final as they
can be. The arrangement of the tables would depend on the event of the day. For the venue to be code
compliant, two fire exits were added to the main floor and a deck was added to the back with a wide fire
escape going down to the parking lot that would create an overhang. The staircase and kitchen were
moved to the other side of the building on these current plans. There will be an area for take-out
lunches and the venue will be open from Tuesday - Friday from 5 p.m. until 10:00 p.m. and on
weekends from 9 a.m. until 1:00 p.m. for brunch.
Architect Chris Borchardt spoke and said that he tried to get a handle on the change of use from medical
office to public assembly space, which meant a lot of digging through code. The biggest design
challenge was making sure to get the flow of patrons through the space in an inviting way while also
having the ability, in case of emergency, of getting them out safely. What is called a deck on the plans is
a glorified fire escape. Regarding the mezzanine, it was a way to best use the space and work through
the fire codes.
The architect spoke of trying to take advantage of the linear nature of the building, so when you walk in,
you could see a performer on the stage. The biggest change on the current site plan is that they added
the egress deck off the back of the building which will provide a covered entry for artists or performances
entering the building. This pushes the ADA compliant parking space back and the remaining seven
spots remain. Also in the parking lot is a trash enclosure that the was squeezed into the back of the site.
The applicant is speaking to neighbors regarding making the trash enclosure a shared site.

1

There was talk of possibly extending the sidewalk in the parking lot to connect with the neighboring
church. In the front of the building, the plan is to replace the storefront entrance with a little more glass
and introduce a small canopy roof that will provide down lighting and some signage. They are proposing
adding some pergola accents over the windows.
The applicant stated that he met with DPW and confirmed that they can get to the back of the building
for trash collection without a problem.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience:
Glen Belkin of 228 Cleveland Drive spoke and said that he was a practicing pediatrician in this building
since 1989, but their parent organization decided to close this location and both he and his wife are
enthusiastic about the proposed project.
Thomas Ramburg of 33 Penfield Avenue added his voice in support of the application from a cultural I
standpoint. Thomas Ramburg told of meeting many artists and musicians over the years, and noted the
Village lacks of this type of community space. Thomas Ramburg said that the Village is lucky to have
someone with this initiative and offers enthusiastic support.
Chairman Luntz stated that in terms of the numbers, it will be a place of assembly and called the plan a
thoughtful one.
Steve Krisky made motion to close public hearing, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion passed, 5
-0.
Chairman Luntz read the resolution, with conditions, and made an adjustment in the fifth paragraph,
adjusting the number of parking spots that would be required and the number of parking spaces that will
need to be waived by the Planning Board. The applicant will come back to the Planning Board for Sign
Permit Approval.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Amended Site Plan application for Sean Fuller of 130
Grand, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Cipriano, Arcangelo & Mario - 167 Maple Street (68.17-4-37) - Minor Site Plan Approval
for New Two-Family House

Mr. and Mrs. Cipriano were present in support of the application, requesting Minor Site Plan Approval to
build a two-family house at the property located at 167 Maple Street. The property is on a flag lot, with a
shared driveway for the first 100 feet, for which they have an easement. The house is in a two-family
residential zoning district. The site plans show a deck on both the first and second floors of the house,
so if the Planning Board approves the minor site plan, the applicants will need to go to the Zoning Board
and apply for a rear yard variance. Utilities for this house will tie into Maple Street for water and sewer.
It did not work out for gravity standpoint, so they will have a pump station that will pump up to a manhole
then gravity flow to Maple Street. Two trees close to the house will need to be removed, but the
applicants will plant three new trees.
Dan O'Connor reported that two parking spaces are required for a two-family house, one for each
dwelling unit. This property has a wide driveway which could fit three or four cars. It is currently an
empty lot. The property is flat, so there is very little grading. The stormwater system will be out back.
There will be two apartments, exactly the same, approximately 1,100 square feet each with three
bedrooms and one bathroom on each level. The applicants reported that their son may live on the first
floor and they would rent out the second floor. The Planning Board asked the applicants if the stone
walls were in good condition and they replied that if the walls needed repairs, they will repair them.

2

The applicants reported that they could not make a basement as they did not want to break rock, but
they will have a crawlspace. There will not be stairs from the inside of the house to the lower level. The
house itself is compliant with zoning, there is enough lot area and it meets the criteria for FAR, the
proposed decks (one on each level) would require a variance. The decks are not required as a means
of egress, so if the Zoning Board does not approve the decks, then they can install windows.
Rob Luntz read the resolution, including the conditions. Neither a steep slope permit or a wetland permit
is required.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve application for Minor Site Plan approval for a new two-family
house at 167 Maple Street, submitted by Mr. and Mrs. Cipriano, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the
motion carried, 5 - 0.

4.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Hannigan, Tom - 52 Upland Lane (67.8-2-1) Minor Site Plan Application & Associated
Approvals for New House

Homeowner Tom Hannigan was present in support of the application. The applicant provided an update
as to what action steps he took since the last Planning Board meeting and where he was with the Town
of Cortlandt. He and his contractors are ready to begin work. Once again, the applicant showed an
aerial view of the property from 1926 which shows that large sections of the property were clear land and
noted that most of the proposed disturbance will occur in areas that were historically cleared .
The applicant provided information from the Sav A Tree report that was obtained for the Town of
Cortlandt which states that 37% of the trees are black birch and "Atypical." The applicant came up with
some numbers based on the Sav A Tree report:
• Only ten 24" or larger are impacted
• 86% of the trees are listed as being in fair condition, and left unmanaged, these trees will
decline.
The applicant believes that if he does nothing, the property could turn into a jungle again. The applicant
presented information regarding a holistic approach to forestry management which included thinning of
dead or poor condition and non-native trees, increased light penetration, planting along site perimeter to
enhance habitat, removal of trees too close to grading, septic, stormwater and new structures, protection
of tree roots and erosion control measures. The applicant also outlined best practices for this project
including thinning on non-native second growth trees, re-planting trees along the property borders, and
including vulnerable species in re-planting where applicable. The applicant brought a plan that detailed
where the replanting will take place and would like to replant 67 trees. 60% of the trees proposed to be
removed are in the Town of Cortlandt, and a majority of the replacement trees will be planted in the
Village of Croton. Dan O'Connor spoke to the Town of Cortlandt's Engineer who stated that they would
accept trees planted in the Village for the numbers that they expect the applicant to replant. The
applicant reports that there are no protected trees on the site.
The Planning Board suggested that the applicant put a tree plan in writing and present it to the Town of
Cortlandt. Geoff Haynes stated that the plan that affects the Village is agreeable. Eva Thaddeus stated
that the applicant is putting in trees that can survive and thrive and that the plan seems ecologically
appropriate.
Dan O'Connor stated that one of the conditions of the resolution for the applicant's minor site plan
approval is that no building permit will be issued until Dan O'Connor has confirmation that the applicant
has received all his approvals from the Town of Cortlandt. Steve Krisky asked if neighbor notification of
the project was required and Dan O'Connor said that the Planning Board could choose to add that as a
condition of the resolution. Dan O'Connor also stated that the Town of Cortlandt assigned the address
of the proposed house as 51 Upland Land and that all documents (house plans, site plans, etc.) will
need to be updated with the official address.

3

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan, Steep Slope, Excavation & Fill, and Tree
Removal permits for 51 Upland Lane with the addendum to the conditions that the applicant be
responsible for notifying neighbors of any potential disruption in traffic patterns along the way, and that
no building permit will be issued by the Village of Croton until all necessary approvals are obtained from
the Town of Cortlandt and documentation of such submitted to the Village Engineer, seconded by Steve
Krisky, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

b) Porteus and Son Builders - 25A Harrison Street (68.17-2-26.22) Minor Site Plan
Amendment to revise exterior siding color from dark blue to forest green
Greg Porteus sent an email stating that the homeowner of 25A Harrison Street requested the exterior
color of the house be forest green, instead of the dark blue that is on the approved plans. The house is
currently under construction, so no siding has been added to the house. The applicant submitted a color
sample of the forest green that was passed around by the Planning Board.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the revision of the siding color to forest green, seconded by
Geoff Haynes, and the motion passed, 5 - 0.
c)

Referral from Village Board to review application from ShopRite Supermarket, Inc., for
Special Permit Renewal at 440 South Riverside Avenue (79.17-2-2)

Chairman Luntz read out the conditions in a draft maintenance agreement between ShopRite's landlord
and the Village of Croton. The maintenance agreement states that the parties agree as follows:
1. The Owner shall be responsible to at all times maintain the parking lot on the Property in good, clean
condition. Specifically, the Owner shall be responsible for the following items of maintenance on a
regular bases as needed to keep the Property in good condition.
a. Regular sweeping of the parking lot and trash clean up.
b. Maintaining all signage, including directional signage, to be at all time clear and visible,
including replacing and repairing signage as may be necessary.
c. Restriping the parking lot at regular intervals as needed to maintain visible and clearly
delineated parking spaces and roadway striping.
d. Snow and ice removal as needed.
e. Maintenance of all landscaping, including promptly replacing all dead plant materials
including street trees as required by the Village site plan approval.
f. Filing of all potholes and asphalt repairs as needed.
g. Maintenance of all stormwater management features on the Property.
To this list, the Planning Board would like to add:
h.
i.
j.
k.
I.

All signage and striping should meet Department of Transportation regulations.
All details in the approved site plan dated May 10, 2016 should be implemented
That a lighting plan be provided that adheres to recommendations from the Village's
Conservation Advisory Council regarding "Dark Skies."
That all concrete sidewalks and curbs are repaired as needed and
That maintenance and proper care of all landscaping is provided.

The Planning Board also recommends that:
• Striping be put in place between the two shopping plazas in the parking lot and
• A sidewalk be installed coming down the south side of the entrance ramp to the north parking lot
entrance

Steve Krisky is the Planning Board's liaison to the Croton Conservation Advisory Council. Steve Krisky
noted that Janet Monahan, Chairperson of the Croton Conservation Advisory Council was present and

4

invited her to speak. Janet Monahan reported that Croton wants to do a better job of diminishing light
pollution. Currently, many lights are too bright and facing in the wrong direction. Scattering of
unnecessary light is light bleed. According to Janet Monahan, there is nothing to be done about Metro
North, or local schools, but maybe we could require commercial properties such as ShopRite to come up
with a lighting plan that takes Dark Skies into consideration. The new lighting plan could also help
ShopRite save money.

5.

ENGINEER'S REPORT

Regarding the garden center on Albany Post Road, Dan O'Connor shared a copy of a letter that was
sent to the property owner advising him to return to the Planning Board for Amended Site Plan approval.

6.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes February 20th, 2024

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 20th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

7.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:29 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
**Minutes approved March 19, 2024, as amended, by a vote of 5-0**

5

r.. ··l
u·
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board held a public hearing for an Amended Site Plan application on February
61h, 2024 and March 5th , 2024, for Sean Fuller hereafter known as "the Applicant." The subject property,
owned by Pat Krurnholtz Belkin is located at 130 Grand Street in a C-1 Central Commercial District and
designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.05 Block 1 Lot 57; and
WHEREAS, this amended site plan application is for: a rear deck and small addition, revisions to the front
fa~ade, and improvements and updates to the parking lot/dumpster area; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality Review
Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed the "Revised Proposal," dated March 51h , 2024, which included
a parking study for available on-street parking and available parking in public parking lots within 1250 feet
of the property; and
WHEREAS, a total of 28 off-street parking spaces are required, 10 based on the floor area, and an
additional 19 for the proposed 78 seats for a total of 28 required off-street parking spaces.
WHEREAS, under Section 230-35 of the Village Zoning Code, the Planning Board has the authority, as
part of site plan approval, to waive the required off-street parking upon its determination that the site is
already improved and that the required on-site parking spaces are not available and, due to limitations,
cannot be constructed.
WHEREAS, a public hearing was opened on February 6, 2024, and closed on March 51h, 2024; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Amended Site Plan application as shown on the plans
entitled Grand Street Performance Restaurant, Bar, Gallery and Performance Space Sheet S 1.0 entitled
"Proposed Site Plan", Sheet Al .0 entitled "Existing/Proposed Floor Plans", and Sheet A2.0 entitled
"Building Sections/Elevations", prepared by Christopher Borchardt, of cbdb architecture, Cortlandt Manor,
NY dated February 22, 2024, last revised February 29, 2024, and "Venue 130 Grand Street (Revised
Proposal), dated March 51\ 2024 and prepared by Sean Fuller be approved subject to the following
conditions:

1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the plans submitted for the building permit application substantially comply with
the architectural details and exterior materials noted on the approved site plans.
3. That, the sign application be submitted to the Advisory Board on the Visual
Environment for their review and recommendation to the Planning Board, and that the
applicant return to the Planning Board for final approval of the business sign.
4. That, the Planning Board finds the site is already improved and that 20 of the required
28 on-site parking spaces are not available and, due to limitations, cannot be
constructed.
5. That, the Planning Board waives 20 on-site parking spaces on the basis that on-street
parking and a municipal parking lot (Vassallo Park) and a publicly available parking
lot (Asbury Methodist) are nearby and available, subject to employees parking near
the municipal building and on Grand Street west of Old Post Road North.

2
Unless a building pennit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three years of
the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and void. Any application
for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration date.

The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, March 5th, 2024.
Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Steve Krisky, and canied by a vote of 5 to 0.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed a Minor Site Plan application on Tuesday, March 5th,
2024, for 167 Maple Street, owned by Arcangelo and Mario Cipriano , hereafter known as "the
Applicant," said property located at 167 Maple Street, and designated on the Tax Map of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.17 Block 4 Lot 37 and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section I 203(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Minor Site Plan incorporates the excavation and
filling permit, subject to the conditions specified below, and
WHEREAS, under section 208-16(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with section 208-l 6(F) of
the Village Code the approval of the Minor Site Plan includes the approval to remove trees noted
on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below.
WHEREAS, under section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and hereby approves the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, subject to the conditions specified below.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Minor Site Plan application as shown on the
following documents: "Two Family Residence for 167 Maple Ave." Drawing 1 of 10, entitled
"Front Elevation", Drawing 2 of 10 entitled "Foundation Plan", Drawing 3 of IO entitled "First
Floor Plan Apt. I," Drawing 4 of IO entitled "2 nd Floor Plan Apt. 2", Drawing 5 of IO entitled "Roof
Framing Plan," Drawing 6 of 10 entitled "Right Side Elevation," Drawing 7 of 10 entitled "Left
Elevation," Drawing 8 of 10 entited "Rear Elevation," Drawing 9 entitled "Typical Wall Section,"
and Drawing 10 of 10, all dated January 1O'\ 2024, and prepared by DeMasi Architects, PC, of
Mount Kisco New York; and "Proposed Site Plan, Mario Cipriano 167 Maple Street" dated February
12 th , 2024, prepared by MGM Burbon, LLC, and "Finishes" dated February 29, 2024, be approved
under sections 230-678( 1) and 230-129 of the Zoning Code subject to the following conditions:
I. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the colors and materials of the proposed house be substantially consistent
as set forth in the above reference documents and described during the meeting.
3. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application
for a certificate of occupancy.
4. That, the drainage system be approved by the Village Engineer.
5. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtain for all connections to
Village owned utilities.
6. That, any required permits for utility installation in the state highway be
obtained from the NYSDOT.
7. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this
resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.
8. That, the following conditions are established as part of the approval of the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the Village Code.
a. That, a copy of the SWPPP shall be retained at the site of the land
development activity during construction from the date of initiation of
construction activities to the date of final stabilization.
b. That, no land disturbance work shall commence until the installation
of the sediment and erosion control devices has been completed and
found acceptable by the Village Engineer or his authorized agent.

2
c. That, each contractor and subcontractor who will be involved in soil
disturbance and/or stormwater management practice installation shall
sign and date a copy of the following certification statement before
undertaking any land development activity: "I certify under penalty of
law that I understand and agree to comply with the terms and
conditions of the stormwater pollution prevention plan. I also
understand that it is unlawful for any person to cause or contribute to
a violation of water quality standards." Copies of these statements
shall be delivered to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
1. That, the certification must include the name and title of the
person providing the signature, address and telephone number
of the contracting firm; the address (or other identifying
description) of the site; and the date the certification is made.
ii. That, the certification shall contain proof that each contractor
who will be involved in a land development activity has
obtained training and/or certification in proper erosion and
sedimentation control practices. Such certification shall
become part of the SWPPP for the land development activity
and shall be retained on-site.
d. That, the applicable stormwater facility maintenance, inspection and
repair requirements in section 196-9 of the Village Code be
complied with, the stormwater infiltration chamber shall be inspected
annually within 48 to 72 hours after a heavy rainfall (l" or more) to
determine that the chambers have drained. If the chambers have not
drained remedial action shall be taken to rebuild the storm water
management system and restore the infiltrative capacity of the soil.
An inspection port shall be provided.
e. That, deep and percolation tests be conducted in the area of the storm
water infiltration chambers and that an engineer's report on the soil
testing, and redesign if the percolation rate is greater than 5
minutes/inch, be submitted to and approved by the Village Engineer
prior to installation of the chambers.
f. That, the applicant shall contact the Village Engineer at least 48
hours before any of the work inspections listed in section 196IO(A)( l) of the Village Code are required.
g. That, in accordance with section 196- l 0(C) an as-built plan of the
stormwater management practices shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer.
h. That, in accordance with section 196-1 0(F) the landowner shall grant
to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in
a reasonable manner for the inspection of the storm water management
facilities.
1.
That, in accordance with section 196-11 (A) of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the full and faithful completion of all land development
activities related to compliance with all conditions set forth by the
Village in its approval of the stormwater pollution prevention plan.
Said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with
amount of the bond to be approved by the Village Engineer.
9. That, in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the Village
Code the following conditions are established for the approval to remove
trees:

3
a.

That, the landscaping shown on the plan be installed prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
b. That, the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor
and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above
or as required by the Village Engineer.
c. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be
reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85%
grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on
the approved landscaping plan.
d. That, if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are
unintentionally severely damaged during construction, the
applicant will replace each severely damaged tree with a tree of
2.5" minimum caliper with the species to be approved by the
Village Engineer.
e. That, in case of a tree destroyed or removed illegally, in addition
to but not in limitation to any other remedies, another tree or trees
of comparable size, species and/or value be replanted at the
expense of the property owner, for each tree removed.
f. That, in accordance with section 208- I 9(A) of the Village Code
the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other
security payable to the Village to cover the completion of
conditions (a) through (c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the
issuance of a building permit with amount and form of the bond
to be approved by the Village.
g. That, tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
h. That, any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed to less
than two feet.
1.
That, no tree removal shall occur unless a building permit has
been issued by the Village Engineer.
j. That, within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals the
Village Engineer shall be notified of such completion.
k. That, the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term of
minor site plan approval and shall terminate upon the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy.
10. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the a ppr ova I of the
excavation and fill work:
a. That, suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall
be locked at all times when work is not being performed on the
property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to storm water drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That, during construction all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom not be greater than one foot.

4
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented on-site
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
i. That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site, shall
be removed from the site immediately but in no event more than 20
days from excavation.
j. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and
remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or
covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved
landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two to three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend
this period on a day by day basis due to weather events that would not
allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan shall
also include an analysis ofleaving part of the basement a crawl space
to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
I. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.

5
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-l0(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a submission
of a new application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may require the
submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 120lO(E)-(G) of the Village Code.

Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan and associated permits
shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made
six months prior to the expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

A motion to approve the resolution, with conditions, was made by Steve Krisky, seconded by Eva
Thaddeus and carried, by a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on Tuesday, March 5th , 2023.

DRAFT RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed a Minor Site Plan application on, January 16th ,
2024, February 6th , 2024, February 20, 2024 and March 5, 2024 for 51 * Upland Lane,
owned by Thomas Hannigan, hereafter known as "the Applicant," said property located at
51 * Upland Lane, and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 67.08 Block 2 Lot 1; and
WHEREAS, this application is for minor site plan, steep slope, excavation and fill and
tree removal permits for a proposed new house to be built on a property that is located
both in the Village of Croton and the Town of Cortlandt; and
*WHEREAS, the Town of Cortlandt has notified the Village that they have assigned an
official address of 51 Upland Lane to the property, tax #68.08-2-1.
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the
approving authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in
accordance with section 120-3(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Minor Site Plan
incorporates the excavation and filling permit, subject to the conditions specified below,
and
WHEREAS, under section 208- I 6(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the
approving authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with
section 208- I 6(F) of the Village Code the approval of the Minor Site Plan includes the
approval to remove trees noted on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions
specified below; and
WHEREAS, under section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the
approving authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and hereby
approves the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, subject to the conditions specified
below.
WHEREAS, the proposed development plan proposes a land disturbance that exceeds
one of the thresholds in section 195-3A of the Village Code by 2,908 square-feet, which
means that a Steep Slope permit is required; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has reviewed the sixteen steep slope review standards as
set forth in section 195-4 of the Village Code, and submitted by the Applicant, and in
accordance with section 195-4 of the Village Code, the approval of the Minor Site Plan
incorporates the Steep Slope permit, subject to the conditions specified below; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Minor Site Plan application as shown
on the following documents: Cover letter submitted by Joseph C. Riina, P.E., dated January
11, 2024, Sheet 1 entitled Site Plan, dated June 281\ 2021, last revised February 6, 2024.
Sheet 2 entitled Existing Conditions Plan, Dated June 28 1h, 2021, last revised February 6,
2024. Sheet 3 entitled Drainage Plan, Dated June 28th, 2021, last revised February 6, 2024.
Sheet 4, entitled Erosion and Sediment Control Plan, Dated June 28, 2021, last revised
February 6, 2024. Sheet 5, Slope Disturbance Plan, Dated June 28, 2021, last revised

2
February 6, 2024, Sheet 6, dated Septic Plan, Dated June 28, 2021, last revised February 6,
2024, Sheet 7, Tree Disturbance Plan, Dated June 28, 2021, last revised February 6, 2024,
Sheet 8, Tree Disturbance Plan Details, Dated June 28, 2021, last revised February 6, 2024,
Sheet 9, Erosion and Sediment Control Details, Dated June 28, 2021, last revised February
6, 2024, Sheet I 0, Erosion and Sediment Control and Site Plan Details, Dated June 28,
2021, last revised February 6, 2024, Sheet 11, Septic System Site Plan and Details, Dated
June 28, 2021, last revised February 6, 2024, Sheet 12, Drainage Details, dated June 28,
2021, last revised February 6, 2024. Also, Stormwater Management Plan, prepared by Site
Design Consultants, Yorktown Heights, NY for 51 * Upland Lane, Croton on Hudson on
February 6th , 2024. Also, copy of a report entitled "Steep Slope Application, Albany Post
Road/Upland Lane, dated February 6, 2024. Architectural Plans by Alchemy LLC, Sheet
0.0 Title Sheet, Sheet 0.1, Site+ Roof Plan, Sheet 1.0 Ground Level Plan, Sheet 1.1 Second
Level Plan, Sheet 2.0, Exterior Elevations, Sheet 2.1, Exterior Elevations, and Exterior
Perspective and Materials, dated 01/10/24 and Woodland Enhancement Plan, dated August
30, 2022 be approved under section 230-67B(l) of the Zoning Code subject to the following
conditions:
1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at
length.
2. That, the colors, and materials of the proposed house be substantially
consistent as set forth in the above reference documents and described
during the meetings.
3. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the
application for a certificate of occupancy.
4. That, no Building Permit will be issued by the Village of Croton-onHudson until all necessary approvals are obtained from The Town of
Cortlandt and documentation of such submitted to the Village Engineer.
5. That, the applicant will notify neighbors on Upland Lane when any
disruption to traffic is expected.
6. The applicant shall submit all documents (site plans, house plans, etc.)
for the building permit application with the official address on all
documents as established by the Town of Cortlandt.
7. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by
this resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.
8. That, the following conditions are established as part of the approval of
the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the
Village Code.
a. That, a copy of the SWPPP shall be retained at the site of the
land development activity during construction from the date of
initiation of construction activities to the date of final
stabilization.
b. That, no land disturbance work shall commence until the
installation of the sediment and erosion control devices has been
completed and found acceptable by the Village Engineer or his
authorized agent.
c. That, each contractor and subcontractor who will be involved in
soil disturbance and/or stormwater management practice
installation
shall sign and date a copy of the following
certification statement before undertaking any land development
activity: "I certify under penalty of law that I understand and
agree to comply with the terms and conditions of the storm water

3
pollution prevention plan. I also understand that it is unlawful
for any person to cause or contribute to a violation of water
quality standards." Copies of these statements shall be delivered
to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a building permit.
i. That, the certification must include the name and title of
the person providing the signature, address and
telephone number of the contracting firm; the address (or
other identifying description) of the site; and the date the
certification is made.
11. That, the certification shall contain proof that each
contractor who will be involved in a land development
activity has obtained training and/or certification in
proper erosion and sedimentation control practices. Such
certification shall become part of the SWPPP for the land
development activity and shall be retained on-site.
d. That, the applicable stormwater facility maintenance,
inspection and repair requirements in section 196-9 of the
Village Code be complied with, the stormwater infiltration
chamber shall be inspected annually within 48 to 72 hours after
a heavy rain fall ( l" or more) to determine that the chambers have
drained. If the chambers have not drained remedial action shall
be taken to rebuild the storm water management system and
restore the infiltrative capacity of the soil. An inspection port
shall be provided.
e. That, deep and percolation tests were conducted in the area of
the storm water infiltration chambers and that an engineer's
report on the soil testing was received.
f. That, the applicant shall contact the Village Engineer at least
48 hours before any of the work inspections listed in section
196-lO(A)( 1) of the Village Code are required.
g. That, in accordance with section 196-1 0(C) an as-built plan of
the stormwater management practices shall be submitted to the
Village Engineer.
h. That, in accordance with section 196-1 0(F) the landowner shall
grant to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable
times and in a reasonable manner for the inspection of the
stormwater management facilities.
1.
That, in accordance with section 196-1 l(A) of the Village Code
the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other
security to cover the full and faithful completion of all land
development activities related to compliance with all conditions
set forth by the Village in its approval of the stormwater
pollution prevention plan. Said bond to be filed prior to the
issuance of a building permit with amount of the bond to be
approved by the Village Engineer.
9. That, in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the
Village Code the following conditions are established for the
approval to remove trees:
a. That, the landscaping shown on the plan be installed prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.

4
b. That, the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk
armor and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans
listed above or as required by the Village Engineer.
c. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall
be covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch,
and be reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a
minimum 85% grass coverage or covered with other ground
cover as shown on the approved landscaping plan.
d. That, if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are
unintentionally severely damaged during construction, the
applicant will replace each severely damaged tree with a tree
of 2.5" minimum caliper with the species to be approved by
the Village Engineer.
e. That, in case of a tree destroyed or removed illegally, in
addition to but not in limitation to any other remedies,
another tree or trees of comparable size, species and/or value
be replanted at the expense of the property owner, for each
tree removed.
f. That, in accordance with section 208-19(A) of the Village
Code the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond
or other security payable to the Village to cover the
completion of conditions (a) through (c) above, said bond to
be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with
amount and form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
g. That, tree removal operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday
through Friday and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and
10:00 a.m. Friday through Sunday.
h. That, any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed
to less than two feet.
i. That, no tree removal shall occur unless a building permit
has been issued by the Village Engineer.
J. That, within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals
the Village Engineer shall be notified of such completion.
k. That, the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term
of minor site plan approval and shall terminate upon the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
10. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code
the following conditions are established for the approval of the
excavation and fill work:
a. That, suitable fencing, with a mm1mum height of 48", be
provided to guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth.
All gates shall be locked at all times when work is not being
performed on the property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment
control devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by
the Village Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to
stormwater drainage, water bodies and/or wetlands.

5
c. That, during construction all excavations shall be drained so that
any standing water at the bottom not be greater than one foot.
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect
all fill from off-site sources and may require testing, by an
approved laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented
on-site and on access roads and any traveled areas used in
connection with any excavation and/or filling work to protect
the public and surrounding area against windblown soil and
dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere
with the orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not
unreasonably impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in
before permanent supports have been provided for the sides of
such excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made
shall provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may
be necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and
approved by the Village Engineer prior to any such excavation
being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
1. That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site,
shall be removed from the site immediately but in no event more
than 20 days from excavation.
J. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and
be reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum
85% grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as
shown on the approved landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business
day if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering
is required, a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the
Village Engineer for review and approval and shall not include
any blasting operations. The rock excavation plan shall provide
for the shortest possible timeframe for the removal of bedrock
with the goal that all bedrock removal operations be conducted
in a two to three-week period as approved by the Village
Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend this period on a
day by day basis due to weather events that would not allow
reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan shall
also include an analysis ofleaving part of the basement a crawl
space to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be
excavated.
I. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other
security to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k)

6
above, said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building
pennit with amount and fonn of the bond to be approved by the
Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through
Friday and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and I 0:00 a.m.
Friday through Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated
soil or the erection or use of any structure for such processing
however, power equipment for the purpose of filling and
excavation is permitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling
operations during the terms of this approval ifin its opinion such
additional reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall
be valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance
of the building permit and subject to termination or renewal as
specified in section 120-l0{A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a
submission of a new application to the Planning Board shall be
required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall
submit a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design
professional to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may
require the submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be
suspended or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth
in section 120-1 0(E)-(G) of the Village Code.

10 That, in accordance with sections 195-S(C) of the Village Code the following
conditions are established as part of the Steep Slope Permit:
a. The use of explosives shall be prohibited.
b. Any disturbance of steep slopes shall be completed within one construction
season, and disturbed areas shall not be left bare and exposed during the
winter and spring thaw periods.
c. The disturbance of existing vegetative ground cover shall not take place
more than 15 days prior to commencing grading and construction.
d. Temporary soil stabilization shall be applied to all areas of disturbance and
all adjoining areas within 50 feet thereof within two days after establishing
of the final grade, and permanent stabilization and revegetation shall be
undertaken within 15 days thereafter. Upon good cause shown and based
upon consideration of the slopes, soils and environmental sensitivity of the
area involved, the Village Engineer may modify these specified time
periods.
e. Temporary soil stabilization shall be applied within two days after the
disturbance is completed or when no additional disturbance is to be
performed for a period of seven days. Upon good cause shown and based
upon consideration of the slopes, soils and environmental sensitivity of the

7
area involved, the Village Engineer may modify these specified time
periods.
f. Topsoil that will be stripped from all areas of disturbance shall be
stockpiled in a manner so as to minimize erosion and sedimentation, and
shall be replaced on the site at the time of final grading.
g. Fill material shall be composed only of nonorganic material, including rock
with a diameter that will allow for appropriate compaction and cover by
topsoil.
h. Compaction of fill materials in fill areas shall be such that it ensures
support of proposed structures and stabilization for intended uses.
i. That, in accordance with section 195-8C(4) of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security to
ensure the proper completion of the proposed activity in accordance with
the approved plans, the restoration of the area to its natural condition as far
as practicable and protection of adjoining property owners from damage
resulting therefrom., said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building
permit with amount and form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
j. That, following completion of the work, the applicant shall submit a
certification by a landscape architect, architect or professional engineer that
the completed work meets the requirements of the steep slope permit. The
Village Engineer will verify that the work has been completed in
accordance with such permit. Submission of an as-built survey may be
required by the approving authority or the Village Engineer.
k. That, the steep slope permit shall expire upon the completion of the work.
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted
within three years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan and
associated permits shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of site
plan approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration date.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

A motion to approve the resolution, was made by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve
Krisky, and carried, by a vote of 5 - 0.
** Resolution approved at the meeting held on Tuesday, March 5th, 2024. **

