VILLAGE OF CROTON ON HUDSON
MINUTES OF WATER CONTROL COMMISSION
THURSDAY JULY 31, 2025
PRESENT: Mr. Leo Wiegman
Mr. William Pfrang
Dr. Carly Shanks
ABSENT:

Mr. Stuart Greenbaum, Chairman
Mr. Richard Wetherbee

ALSO PRESENT:

1.

Daniel O’Connor, Village Engineer
Anna Georgiou, Assistant Village Attorney

CALL TO ORDER:

The meeting official opened at 7:01 pm.

2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Hugh Greechan, Jr., P.E, Commissioner of Westchester County Department of Public
Works & Transportation, has applied to the Water Control Commission of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson for a Wetlands Activity Permit for the proposed complete replacement of
the existing Quaker Bridge over the Croton River.

PRESENT: Angelo Sgobbo, PE Director of Design Coordination Westchester County
Department of Public Works and Transportation
Matt Hunt, PE, Project Manager, Structures Group Co-Leader of Creighton
Manning
Mr. O’Connor, Village Engineer, opened the meeting by providing background on the Quaker
Bridge Replacement Project. He explained that the site is located along a protected river area
(Croton River) and is subject to a 120-foot river buffer under local zoning regulations, with an
additional 30 feet imposed by the Indian Brook Watershed Protection Overlay District. Mr.
O’Connor explained the purpose of the meeting was to allow the applicants to present the project
details, identify potential environmental impacts, and discuss mitigation measures. Members of
1

the Water Control Commission (WCC) were encouraged to ask questions to better understand the
application and request for the wetland’s activity permit under their jurisdiction.
Mr. O’Connor discussed meeting schedules and coordination with other involved Village
Boards. It was shared that the Planning Board was scheduled to meet on the first Tuesday of
August to review the application for the approval of tree removal under the new Village Tree
Law and to review and make a recommendation to the Water Advisory Committee (WAC) for a
consistency review under the Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP). The WAC was
being scheduled to meet as well. It was also shared that the WCC would be reconvening on
Monday, August 25th to deliberate on the wetland activity permit of which was before them at
the present meeting.
The Village Engineer then introduced Mr. Sgobbo, PE of Westchester County Department of
Public Works and Transportation and Mr. Hunt, PE, from Creighton Manning as the project
representatives. Before beginning the presentation, Mr. Weigman noted the application was
amongst the most thorough received in recent memory, which included a comprehensive
alternatives analysis and permit applications submitted to both the New York State Department
of Environmental Conservation (DEC) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
Mr. Sgobbo began by sharing the bridge had been closed since November 2024. Mr. Hunt then
provided a detailed technical overview of the bridge replacement project, explaining that the
existing bridge that was originally built in 1894 and renovated in 1930 and 1950 had been closed
due to its current poor condition and was currently considered a high-priority replacement. Mr.
Hunt explained the structure would be replaced with a prefabricated steel truss bridge with
overhead bracing. The bridge is proposed to increase in width from 16 feet to approximately 26
feet, including two 11-foot travel lanes and a 5-foot pedestrian shoulder, which would improve
access and safety while remaining on the existing alignment. Mr. Hunt stated that most of the
widening would occur on the North/Northeast side to minimize environmental disturbance.
Mr. Hunt and the Board noted that given the site's tight access and steep slopes, staging and
delivery logistics will be challenging. Mr. Hunt explained that the prefabricated trusses would be
assembled onsite using cranes, with some segments possibly requiring field assembly due to
delivery constraints. He added that contractors may use a corner staging area, but Black Rock
Park would not be used for staging. Answering questions from the Board, Mr. Hunt stated that
the bridge is designed to accommodate all legal loads, including fire trucks and DEP
maintenance vehicles, and would provide a 14.5-foot vertical clearance at its overhead braces.
Demolition of the existing structure may occur in a single lift (a "pop and drop") if approved by
DEC. Historic plaques on both ends of the bridge will be salvaged and may be transferred to
either the Town or Village for display but that was not decided.
Mr. Hunt explained the project would include upgrades to stormwater drainage systems, such as
new manholes, culverts, and riprap protection. He added that drainage from the new impervious
2

surfaces would flow into an existing stone ditch and down an apron toward a larger stone-lined
slope to reduce erosion and protect embankments, noting there would be no bridge scuppers.
Although the WCC will not be the Board to issue a tree removal permit, it was still shared that
the project is to involve significant tree removal and replanting. A tree survey, submitted as part
of the application, provided details on the size, species, and health of affected trees. It was shared
that approximately 57 trees will be removed, and 35 to 38 will be replanted on-site. An additional
41 may be planted elsewhere in the Village, such as Black Rock Park. Mr. Hunt explained that
slope stabilization was to follow best practices, including the use of erosion control measures
like silt fences, turbidity curtains, and coffer dams to prevent runoff and sediment from entering
the river adding that contractors will be required to follow DEC protocols and will be monitored
by DOT-level inspectors to ensure compliance.
The project’s estimated cost is $16 million, fully funded by Westchester County through bonds.
The applicant stated that construction was anticipated to begin after November 1, 2025, when
tree-clearing restrictions are lifted. The target completion date was stated to be June 30, 2026. It
was shared that a single general contractor will be responsible for the work, with subcontractors
handling specific components.
The Board then asked additional questions about the truss installation process, maximum vehicle
loads, DEP access needs, and environmental safeguards. The Board also asked about tree health;
Mr. Hunt clarified that while the survey includes size and species, health ratings were not
uniformly applied unless the tree was clearly compromised.
At the conclusion of Mr. Hunt’s presentation, Mr. O’Connor asked the Board if they felt a site
visit was necessary. The Board members indicated familiarity with the location including the
steep terrain and therefore felt at that time, a formal site visit would not be necessary. The Board
expressed satisfaction with the thorough presentation and documentation, and no additional
information was requested. It was then noted that the application would remain open until the
next WCC meeting scheduled for Monday, August 25th, when a final determination on the
wetland’s activity permit would be made pending consistency findings from the Planning Board
and the Waterfront Advisory Committee.
Associate Village Attorney Anna Georgiou was present and had no further comments. The
meeting concluded with an acknowledgement that the bridge had been closed for nearly a year
and the replacement project originally studied as early as 2017 and was re-prioritized after
receiving a red-flag designation from DOT in 2022. Since then, the County and DEP have moved
forward at “full speed” to complete the project as soon as possible.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

The approval of the September 23, 2023 meeting minutes were postponed.
3

4.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the Water Control Commission, the meeting was
adjourned at 7:43 pm.

Respectfully submitted by,

Stefanie Correale
Secretary to the Water Control Commission

4

