Planning Board Meeting Minutes
June 20th, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of June 20th, 2023 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING

a) Franzoso, Mark - 23 Nordica Drive (79. 13-4-64) Minor Site Plan Application for
Construction of a New Single-Family House.
Mark Franzoso was present in support of the application. The Planning Board looked at the revised
basement plans that would allow different options for potential buyers. This application has been
reviewed at multiple previous Planning Board meetings, and the main point that needs to be resolved is
the landscaping, specifically the landscaping between this subject property and the neighboring property
at 27 Nordica Drive (Davies). The Planning Board suggested that an additional 4-6 new trees should be
planted below the canopy of existing trees to provide additional screening. The applicant did not agree
with this suggestion and felt that he has complied with numerous previous requests, including hiring a
landscape architect. After some discussion, it was agreed that the applicant would not have the
landscape plan revised, but a condition would be added to the resolution, stating that the applicant will
plant three additional White Fir Trees, 7'-8' feet high, (for a total of six) along the north property line.
The applicant referenced a previous conversation with Dan O'Connor regarding installation of a gas line
that could service this property, and Dan O'Connor stated that he would follow up with Con Ed. The
applicant believes that DPW is planning to repave Nordica Drive, so it would make sense for the gas line
to be installed prior to the repaving. The applicant is interested in being connected to a new gas line as a
back up option, as he plans to go electric.
Chairman Rob Luntz opened the meeting to the public and first to speak was Earl DePass of 10 Nordica
Drive. Mr. DePass reminded the Planning Board that Nordica Drive is a dead-end street, and all
residents of Nordica Drive should be notified when the street will be closed as there is only one way in
and one way out. Mr. DePass was told that there is currently no work on Piney Point that would require
the use of the easement.
Russ Davies of 27 Nordica Drive was next to speak and said that the screening that he spoke about at
previous meetings was for the residents of 23 Nordica Drive, not his home at 27 Nordica Drive. Mr.
Davies referred to a photograph of the front of the subject property and said there is a gentle transition

1

between the steeper part of the slope and the street, which may be where the retaining wall will be built,
but there is a strip of healthy soil that should take whatever is planted there. Regarding the Con Edison
initiative, Mr. Davies reported that a neighbor reached out to Con Ed for a gas line, and several other
neighbors were also interested, but prior the work beginning, certain homes on Nordica Drive must
complete minor updates prior to Con Ed to begin installing the new gas line.
Steve Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion
carried, 5 - 0.
Rob Luntz asked Dan O'Connor who was responsible to notify neighbors regarding street closures and
Dan O'Connor stated that it was the Village's responsibility. The applicant stated that the house that he
proposed is a manufactured house, which would require the street to be closed for four to five hours one
day. Dan O'Connor stated that the Engineering Office would want a plan from the modular company,
detailing when they would be delivering the home. Dan O'Connor also stated that the property owner
could notify neighbors of street closures with a door hanger.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve a resolution for minor site plan approval for 23 Nordica Drive
with an additional condition that three White Fir trees be planted on the north side of the property,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0.

3.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Franzoso, Mark - 32 Piney Point Avenue (Section 79.13-4-45) Amendment of Minor
Site Plan Approval for Single-Family House Construction to Modify Certain Aspects
of the Landscape, Architectural and Site Plans.

Applicant Mark Franzoso was present in support of the application. The applicant was requesting the
following amendments to the approved Minor Site plan for this property:
1) Elimination of the requirement to install lattice around a portion of the steel superstructure as shown on
the approved architectural plans.
2) A change in landscaping plan to accept the currently planted landscaping.
3) Elimination of the rockfall protection netting.
4) Elimination of the stone veneer on the outside of the parking structure.
The Planning Board were satisfied with the elimination of the rock netting on this property based on
feedback from Engineers from LaBella Associates (formerly known as Chazen) and Pillori Associates.
The Planning Board also agreed that the lattice seems unnecessary and were in favor of the elimination
of that detail.
The larger issue for the Planning Board was the car pad. The Planning Board members believe that what
was done on the neighboring property was successful in terms of aesthetics. The applicant stated that
he did not want to do something like the neighboring property as he is building a maintenance free house
and adding wood panels that would expand and contract would require maintenance. After much
discussion, it was determined that vines will be planted in such a way that they will eventually grow over
the structure and a second coat of paint will be added to the current parking structure. Eva Thaddeus
suggested Winter Jasmine.
Russ Davies of 27 Nordica Drive requested to speak and said that he believed that the idea (of adding
the vines) was a good one. A lot of the concern from the neighbors was regarding the greenery and the

2

disruption of the ecology so putting greenery back is a good plan. Also, Mr. Davies believes that once the
soil is settled and the planting is in place on this property, netting will not be necessary. Lastly, Mr.
Davies stated that the neighbors were originally concerned about drainage control. The applicant did
install drainage control, but now Mr. Davies, as an engineer, believes that the drainage control (hay bills,
silt fences) is no longer necessary. The applicant stated that the drainage control will be removed.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the resolution for Minor Site Plan approval for the property
located at 32 Piney Point Avenue, with a condition that the stone veneer on the outside of the parking
structure as shown on the approved plans can be eliminated provided that vines be planted such that
they will eventually grow over the parking structure and that a second coat of paint is added to the current
parking structure, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0.

4) APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Draft Minutes May 16nd, 2023
Rob Luntz made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of May16th, 2023, as amended,
seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 -0.

5) ENGINEER'S REPORT
•
•

•
•
•
•

•
•

•

The subdivision map was filed for Harrison Street, so the building permits will be coming soon.
The two houses will be built at the same time.
Dan O'Connor met with the developers for 25 Riverside Ave., and they must relocate the utilities.
The developers also need to set up erosion and sediment control. Building permits have not
been issued yet.
Regarding 1380 Albany Post Road, the surveyor wrote a letter, so the consolidated map will be
sent for approval.
The Village is working on RFP for development of the Village-owned parking lot known as "Lot A,"
located on the north side of Croton Point Avenue.
Regarding 74 Thompson Ave., the contractor is waiting for Health Department approval to reroute
the sewage line.
Steve Krisky mentioned the ramp down to the ShopRite parking lot and concern for pedestrians
walking down the ramp with no clear walking lane. It is unclear if the ramp is wide enough to
mark out a spot for people to walk.
John Ghegan mentioned that there is no marking for handicapped parking near the chapel on
Benedict Blvd. and Young Ave.
Regarding 41-51 Maple Street, Dan O'Connor reported that things are going well. A neighbor on
Beekman Avenue is requesting that the developer build an 8-foot-fence on his property, and the
belief is that the neighbor should wait until the buildings are framed out. A variance would be
required for an 8-foot fence.
Steve Krisky gave a "shout-out" to DPW who are a terrific part of the Village.

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
***Approved, as amended, August, 1, 2023 by a vote of 5-0***

3

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed a Minor Site Plan application on, September 14, 2021,
November 9, 2021, November 23, 2021 and January 25 111, 2022, August 9th , 2022, August 23 rd ,
2022 and June 20 th , 2023 for 23 Nordica Drive, owned by Mark Franzoso, hereafter known as
"the Applicant," said property located at 23 Nordica Drive, and designated on the Tax Map of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot 64; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, on October 14, 2020, the Zoning Board of Appeals granted a lot area variance of
706 sq. ft. from Section 230-33(A) of the Village Zoning Code; and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section 1203(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Minor Site Plan incorporates the excavation and
filling permit, subject to the conditions specified below, and
WHEREAS, under section 208-16(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with section 208-16(F) of
the Village Code the approval of the Minor Site Plan includes the approval to remove trees noted
on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below; and
WHEREAS, under section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and hereby approves the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, subject to the conditions specified below.

WHEREAS, the proposed development plan proposes a land disturbance of 6229 square
feet, and whereas the amount of steep slopes being disturbed is at 42.2% of the lot area
and is under the thresholds in section 195-3A of the Village Code for requiring a Steep
Slope permit; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened on November 23, 2021 and closed on June
20th 2023· and

'

'

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Minor Site Plan application as shown on the
following documents: Cover letter submitted by Daniel A Ciarcia, P.E., dated January 20, 2022,
Sheet 1 entitled Proposed Residence Prepared for Mark Franzoso, Existing Conditions and Site Plan,
Dated April 17, 2020, last revised July 8, 2022. Sheet 2 entitled Proposed Residence Prepared for
Mark Franzoso, Slope Analysis & Erosion control, Dated February 6, 2020, last revised January 12,
2022. Sheet 3, Proposed Residence Prepared for Mark Franzoso, Details, Dated February 10, 2020,
last revisied July 20, 2021. Sheet 4, Proposed Residence Prepared for Mark Franzoso, Wall Design
and Details, Dated July 20, 2021, last revisied Novemer 15, 2021, and "23 Nordica Drive, Planting
Plan," prepared by IQ Landscape Architects, dated June 141'\ 2022 (Sheet L-1). Also, Copy of a
report entitled "Steep Slope Application, Mark Franzoso, 23 Nordica Drive, dated November 2,
2021. Architectural Plans by Westchester Modular Homes, Inc .. , dated 11/26/21 and; be approved
under section 230-67B(l) of the Zoning Code subject to the following conditions:
1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the colors and materials of the proposed house be substantially consistent
as set forth in the above reference documents and described during the meeting.
3. That the applicant, as agreed to at the Planning Board meeting, will plant three
additional White Fir Trees, 7'-8' high, (for a total of six) along the north
property line.

2
4. The applicant will use the corrected floor plans which show the modified plan
for the basement level of the property.
5. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application
for a certificate of occupancy.
6. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtain for all connections to
Village owned utilities.
7. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this
resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.
8. That, the following conditions are established as part of the approval of the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the Village Code.
a. That, a copy of the SWPPP shall be retained at the site of the land
development activity during construction from the date of initiation of
construction activities to the date of final stabilization.
b. That, no land disturbance work shall commence until the installation
of the sediment and erosion co~trol devices has been completed and
found acceptable by the Village Engineer or his authorized agent.
c. That, each contractor and subcontractor who will be involved in soil
disturbance and/or stormwater management practice installation shall
sign and date a copy of the following certification statement before
undertaking any land development activity: "I certify under penalty of
law that I understand and agree to comply with the terms and
conditions of the stormwater pollution prevention plan. I also
understand that it is unlawful for any person to cause or contribute to
a violation of water quality standards." Copies of these statements
shall be delivered to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
i. That, the certification must include the name and title of the
person providing the signature, address and telephone number
of the contracting firm; the address (or other identifying
description) of the site; and the date the certification is made.
11. That, the certification shall contain proof that each contractor
who will be involved in a land development activity has
obtained training and/or certification in proper erosion and
sedimentation control practices. Such certification shall
become part of the SWPPP for the land development activity
and shall be retained on-site.
d. That, the applicable stormwater facility maintenance, inspection and
repair requirements in section 196-9 of the Village Code be
complied with, the stormwater infiltration chamber shall be inspected
annually within 48 to 72 hours after a heavy rainfall (1" or more) to
determine that the chambers have drained. If the chambers have not
drained remedial action shall be taken to rebuild the storm water
management system and restore the infiltrative capacity of the soil.
An inspection port shall be provided.
e. That, deep and percolation tests be conducted in the area of the storm
water infiltration chambers and that an engineer's report on the soil
testing, and redesign if the percolation rate is greater than 15
minutes/inch, be submitted to and approved by the Village Engineer
prior to installation of the chambers.
f. That, the applicant shall contact the Village Engineer at least 48
hours before any of the work inspections listed in section 19610(A)( 1) of the VillageCodearerequired.

3
g. That, in accordance with section 196-l0(C) an as-built plan of the
stormwater management practices shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer.
h. That, in accordance with section 196-1 0(F) the landowner shall grant
to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in
a reasonable manner for the inspection of the stormwater management
facilities.
9. That, in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the Village
Code the following conditions are established for the approval to remove
trees:
a. That, the landscaping shown on the plan be installed prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
b. That, the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor
and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above
or as required by the Village Engineer.
c. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be
reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85%
grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on
the approved landscaping plan.
d. That, if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are
unintentionally severely damaged during construction, the
applicant will replace each severely damaged tree with a tree of
2.5" minimum caliper with the species to be approved by the
Village Engineer.
e. That, in case of a tree destroyed or removed illegally, in addition
to but not in limitation to any other remedies, another tree or trees
of comparable size, species and/or value be replanted at the
expense of the property owner, for each tree removed.
f. That, in accordance with section 208-19(A) of the Village Code
the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other
security payable to the Village to cover the completion of
conditions (a) through (c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the
issuance of a building permit with amount and form of the bond
to be approved by the Village.
g. That, tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
h. That, any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed to less
than two feet.
i. That, no tree removal shall occur unless a building permit has
been issued by the Village Engineer.
J. That, within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals the
Village Engineer shall be notified of such completion.
k. That, the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term of
minor site plan approval and shall terminate upon the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy.
l 0. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the approval of the
excavation and fill work:

4
a.

b.

c.
d.

e.

f.

g.

h.

1.

J.

k.

1.

That, suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall
be locked at all times when work is not being performed on the
property.
That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to stormwater drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
That, during construction all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom not be greater than one foot.
That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented on-site
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site, shall
be removed from the site immediately but in no event more than 20
days from excavation.
That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and
remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or
covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved
landscaping plan.
That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two to three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend
this period on a day by day basis due to weather events that would not
allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan shall
also include an analysis of leaving part of the basement a crawl space
to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond

5
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-lO(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a submission
of a new application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may require the
submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 1201O(E)-(G) of the Village Code.
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan and associated permits
shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made
six months prior to the expiration date.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

A motion to approve the resolution, with conditions, was made by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Eva
Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on Tuesday, June 20th, 2023.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board approved an amended Minor Site Plan application on June 20, 2023
for Mark Franzoso, hereafter known as "the Applicant," for a property on a vacant lot on Piney Point
Avenue and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton on Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 4
Lot 45; and;
WHEREAS, the applicant submitted a request to modify some of the site plan requirements as shown
on the approved site plans, and;
WHEREAS, on January 271\ 2023, Gregory Pillori of Pillori Associates, P.A., submitted a letter
stating that he did not believe that rock netting was necessary to stabilize the slope surfaces, and;
WHEREAS, on February l l 1h, 2023, the Planning Board conducted a site visit with the Village
Engineer, and LaBella Associates (formerly known as Chazen) to review the existing site conditions;
and;
WHEREAS, the applicant has requested the following amendments to the approved Minor Site Plan
for the home built on this property:

•
•
•
•

Elimination of the requirement to install lattice around a portion of the steel superstructure as
shown on the approved architectural plans.
A change in landscaping plan to accept the currently planted landscaping.
Elimination of the rockfall protection netting.
Elimination of the stone veneer on the outside of the parking structure.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the requested changes to the Minor Site Plan, be
approved as follows:

•

The requirement to install lattice around a portion of the steel superstructure as shown on the
approved architectural plans is eliminated.

•

The currently planted landscaping is accepted the existing bamboo provides an adequate yearround screen and buffer along the east property making the spruce trees unnecessary. This is
conditioned on a two-year warranty for the landscaping be provided and that that there be an 18
month check up on the new plantings as specified in approved landscape plan in order that the
two-year warranty for the plantings can be enforced (as per condition #8 of the Planning
Board's July 14, 2020 resolution granting site plan approval).

•

The rockfall protection netting as shown on the approved site plan can be eliminated based on a
letter, dated January 27th, 2023, from the applicant's geotechnical engineer, Pillori Associates,
P.A. that indicates that the rockfall protection netting is not required for slope stability and can
be eliminated from the site plan requirements. The slopes shall have rolled erosion control
blankets or equal installed to prevent erosion.

•

The stone veneer on the outside of the parking structure as shown on the approved plans can be
eliminated provided that vines be planted such that they will eventually grow over the parking
structure and that a second coat of paint is added to the current parking structure.

•

All other conditions of the original Minor Site Plan Approval resolution dated July 14 th , 2020,
shall remain in force.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York

2
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by John Ghegan, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution accepted with the minutes of the meeting held on Tuesday June 20th, 2023.

