MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Feb. 23, 2025 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coordinator)
Ashley Clemente

Absent:

Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
Cheryl Wong
Carly Shanks (new member)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): none
Announcements: On 2/5/25, Mayor Pugh appointed Carly Shanks to our committee.
Welcome Carly!
- EV/EVSE
On 1/29/25, Lindsay zoomed with NRG Energy officials on demand response (DR)
options and revenues for the train station EV chargers. For an industrial client,
Lindsay uses NRG’s DR services. NRG plans to gather muni accounts by utility
territory to maximize municipal DR revenues. The Village’s existing accounts are
enrolled with GridRewards. Its offering is limited to one DR program (there are others)
and shares only 65% of the DR incentive. NRG is more aggressive and open to
negotiating a higher % share.
A draft RFP for installation of the train station chargers was sent to Village staff
2/21/25 for review and editing. Dave asked about future options for upgrading to faster
chargers. Lindsay said the underground power conduits (i.e., PVC pipes) were
deliberately oversized to accommodate wiring for the highest power L2 chargers (i.e.,
19.2 kW vs. our 7.2 kW). [Subsequent dialogue with ChargePoint, however, indicated
that such an upgrade would also require replacing the pedestals and concretemounted bolts, involving some messy jack hammering and concrete repair. Not a deal
killer, but extra cost and labor.]
Len updated us on the e-bike program. Two non-Village sites have been nailed down:
the Library and Maple Commons. The goal is to have a bike procurement contract
with Ossining (holder of the e-bike State grant) sometime in March or April, with
startup in June-July. Ossining’s pilot program ran successfully between Aug. and Dec.
before shutting down for the winter.
- Solar Projects/Issues

1

Train station canopies: Correction from prior meeting minutes: the batteries have
not yet been charged. As of 2/7/25, there are plans to do so via a temporary diesel
generator. The Permission to Operate (PTO) from Con Ed was slated for 2/26/25 but
(as of a 3/6/25 zoom with Sol) startup now looks like April, due mainly to slow
interconnection work by Con Ed.
DPW solar parking canopy: A draft RFP was sent to Village staff for review 2/21/25.
SW Municipal Solar program: Designed to help munis with managing their solar
projects, on 2/14/25 SW’s Leo Wiegman sent a draft MOU to assist with the DPW
canopy project to Mayor Pugh and Lindsay for their review. Cost for this service (likely
under $10K) would be covered from our existing NYSERDA grant for that project. The
MOU is being converted to a project management service contract.
SW new Solarize program: Carly reported on SW’s fledgling Solarize program. She
discussed issues with how SW is qualifying the 2-3 vendors it will suggest, and the
pricing formula that will be used. She is following up with SW’s Leo Wiegman on those
items.
- Heat Pumps
Washington firehouse garage HPs: A draft RFP for installation of the heat pumps
and electric boiler was sent to Village staff 2/21/25 for review and editing. Jon
reviewed several issues related to the project. Because of the 1/1/25 change in
allowable refrigerants, new products using them may not be available for several
months. This issue will be added to the draft RFP re: proposed vendor pricing. Due to
problems getting a local electrical contractor to review the firehouse’s existing electric
service, Jon will ask an electrical engineer at OLA (his employer) to do so.
DPW HPs: The option to replace #2 fuel oil with Renewable Diesel (RD) put the this
project on hold, pending Village consideration of switching to RD. Doing so could cut
GHG more affordably than replacing DPW A/Cs with heat pumps. See below for more
on the RD option.
Residential HPs: NY State has yet to roll out its Home Electrification and Appliance
Rebates (HEAR) program for middle income homeowners. However, at least some of
its funding is via the federal IRA. Efforts are being made to claw it back. Until that
issue is resolved (hopefully by end of May), we can’t move further ahead on our longdelayed program to replace residential electric DHW heaters with HPWH. [SW was
asked for guidance on this 3/5/25. We await a response.]
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
Len and Lindsay have been monitoring possible $ losses $ if IRA funding gets cut. At
this time, only tax credits (not our grants) are at issue. While cutting the credits would
require congressional action, such efforts are underway. We were expecting ~$100K
in credits from two in-process solar projects. That money would minimize costs (not
otherwise covered by grants) for Harmon firehouse heat pumps. This issue should be
resolved by end of May with the passing of the annual federal budget.
2

[On 3/7/25, Village Treasurer Dan Tucker reported that IRS in January denied our
request for a ~$20K DirectPay reimbursement for the Washington firehouse solar
rooftop, saying the filing was submitted too late. Dan referenced IRS paperwork
allowing his filing, but has yet to hear back from IRS on the matter. Unrelated, Len is
working with Bedford and other munis to lobby Mike Lawler (our Cong. Rep.) to
ensure DirectPay $ is actually provided on our other projects.]
- Other Reports
On 2/18/25, Lindsay delivered a 2024 annual report to the VB, as required to maintain
our Climate Smart Community (CSC) status. He reviewed various projects, the grants
secured last year to pay for them, and the status of the train station canopies. A PDF
copy of his slides was sent to committee members.
On 2/10/25, we got pricing for Renewable diesel (RD)
on the State fuel contract. The present cost above ultralow sulfur diesel (ULSD) is $.1776/gal, yielding an extra
annual cost of ~$7K. Doing so would cut soot, NOx, and
other emissions as well as GHG. A 2024 study on RD
by the American Transportation Research Institute
(ATRI) was sent (2/15/25) to all members. During his
annual report, Lindsay informed Board members on RD.
Len pointed out how such purchasing would be in line with the Village’s status as a
Green Purchasing Community, a State program that encourages sustainabilityconscious shopping by municipalities. Both Westchester County Airport and the
Village of Tuckahoe now use RD in their diesel trucks.
The Village agreed to help Lindsay with project management on our solar and HP
projects. He had been getting help on the EV charger installation from Keiko, but her
daughter is ill in the hospital and she is unable to assist for the foreseeable future.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
The Feb. Village newsletter had a blip and link to the 1/12/25 Journal News article on
solar projects in the lower Hudson Valley, focusing on our train station canopies.
The Cons. Advisory Council (CAC) will hold Croton's next Repair Cafe on March 29th
from 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM in the Community Room of the Municipal Building.
- New Business / Other Issues
Textile recycling event at Earth Day: Cheryl reviewed planning for her Earth Day
textile recycling booth. As suggested, she will add “not tax deductible” to her flyer. To
help recruit assistants, she will send the flyer to Jon who will send it to the high school
guidance counselor that oversees the required community volunteer program for
seniors. She has also approached the Knights of Columbus for its participation. The
flyer (or our web page) will contain data on the lbs/yr/consumer of textiles that are
annually discarded. Helpsy will drop off bins at the booth and pick them up the same
3

day. It will send a check (at $.10/lb) for the picked up items to the Village via Bryan
Healy’s office. Lindsay sent Cheryl the Sust. Comm. logo for the flyer. Healy will OK or
edit the flyer. Cheryl will develop and secure a banner for the booth. Lindsay will
secure reimbursement as per the Village process for committee expenses.

Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, March 23, 2025 at 10:00 AM via
Zoom.

4

