Croton-on-Hudson Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee
October 2024 Meeting Minutes
Date: October 17, 2024 – 7:30-9:00pm
Present: Steve Krisky, Riley Moeller, Kevin Scott, Adam Shapiro, Brian
Pugh (ex officio), Len Simon (ex officio); Chris O’Connor (visitor)
Guest Speaker: Alex Maccalini, Shared Mobility
1. Minutes - accepted
2. Fielded questions / recommendations from visiting resident, Chris
O’Connor, on cross-walks and speed bumps; additional street lights
on Grand St.; etc.
3. Gotwald Circle
Steve raised community concerns/comments on the work underway @
Gotwald. Agreed on developing and releasing a BPC issued
statement on the work – purpose, benefits, etc. – that can be
referenced to inform community and respond to FB (and other social
media) threads/comments.
Statement: ~4-5 sentences to share with Emily M. to post on Village
social media.
References - BPC Master Plan and Projects and Initiatives section of
Village website:
Cleveland Drive lane narrowing project
In a collaborative effort to improve safety, mobility, and
accessibility, the Department of Public Works (DPW) has worked
with the Village's Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee to develop the
Benedict Roundabout Concept Plan, a key project stemming from
the 2021 Bicycle/Pedestrian Master Plan.

The Roundabout Concept Plan formalizes the existing traffic circle
by transforming it into a safer, more efficient design for both
vehicles and pedestrians. The new roundabout structure improves
upon the informal circle by introducing key elements that enhance
pedestrian safety, including new ADA-compliant curb ramps at all
major crossings, which create designated, accessible pathways for
foot traffic.
By incorporating eight-foot-wide parking lanes, the plan helps to
slow down vehicle speeds near the roundabout, reducing the risk
of accidents. Additionally, the structured design ensures clear,
predictable traffic flow, making it safer for pedestrians to navigate
crossing points without the confusion often found in less formal
traffic circles.
Overall, this formalization creates a safer, more organized
environment for all road users, especially pedestrians, by
prioritizing clear routes, traffic calming measures, and improved
accessibility.

From the Master Plan:
Reconfigure Gottwald Circle in order to make it safer to navigate
by foot or bike. One possibility would be to enlarge the small
parklet in the middle of the circle, make the driving lane narrower,
and add crosswalks and bulb extensions at the surrounding streets
in order to calm traffic and make it clear exactly where cars are
supposed to drive.

1. Project Mover
Background: Village of Ossining awarded/received NYSERDA grant for
bike share program; Croton has been identified as a satellite (along
with/ Tarrytown, Sleepy Hollow and Dobbs Ferry and Town of
Ossining).
Program launched in Ossining on August 26th. (Ribbon cutting event
on 10/9 – and involved parties toured Croton (by e-bike) afterwards
scoping possible docking locations).
Zoom call w/ Alex Maccalini from Shared Mobility, Inc (operator of bike
share programs in Buffalo, Albany, Niagara Falls and other upstate NY
communities and now, Project Mover):
Shared Mobility (based in Buffalo) is operating the program.
Ossining currently has 11 stations + 50 bikes. Range of 40 miles.
Pricing: $1 to unlock the bike; 12 cents / min. 18+ yo. to ride. [More
affordable than NYC’s Citi bike program]
Bikes: Max speed of 20 mph. Peak power output of 350w (enough
oomph to handle the hills in Ossining). [Drops Bikes - manufacturer]

Dedicated staff in Ossining to maintain bikes, docking stations and
perform the battery swapping (cell-block, specialized charging
system/lockers). [Drops Mechanics - maintenance sub-contractor]
Launched 8/26; 997 riders to date
Avg miles per trip = 1.3mi [first mile and last mile transportation
solution]
Next steps for Croton:
○ Issue letter of intent from Village later next week - prompting
next steps.
○ “Dock-less” docking station placement within the Village being
scoped.
Potential locations in Croton:
● Baked by Susan vicinity
● Maple Commons
● Library
● Municipal Lot by Vassalo
● Senasqua
● Metro-North
● Shop-Rite
Target number = 6-8 stations / 30-40 bikes
Start in second half of 2025 (late Spring, early Summer) for satellites.
Ideally, targeting June launch – to coincide with Summer Concert
Series, etc.
Later phase for Ossining may grow to Crotonville and other locations to
help bridge the two communities.

Additional aspects of the program:
● E-bike ownership pathway program - 50 e-bike vouchers (up to
1K) for qualified residents of Ossining (pilot); expand thereafter
to broader communities
● E-bike library program – location of stock-piled e-bikes for
lending (day+)[later phase]
● Proposed greenways as part of the broader program.
Infrastructure improvements
[Nelson Niegard - consulting firm. Infra design, community
engagement process, etc.]
● Outreach:
● Community engagement for awareness and “buzz”
(organic, community focused, ribbon-cutting media, etc.)
● Perhaps a Town Hall for feedback in Village
Grant Funding is on a 3-year basis. Beyond that, looking for sponsors
to ensure ongoing program feasibility.
1. NY Forward grant submission [see one-pager]
1. Pedestrian & Bicycle Bridge Connectivity Improvements
(Estimated) $350.000 NY Forward
Wayfinding to direct residents to and from the Hudson River and
the Upper Village using the Bridge and Brook Street Corridor.
Green-scaping and public art to improve Bridge aesthetics and
enhance awareness of the community's maritime and railroad
heritage.
1. Croton Thrive Small Business Fund
$600,000 NY Forward (75% Grant / 25% Owner)

Building and façade improvements, historic preservation, and
furniture, fixtures, and equipment for new and expanding small
retail, food, and entertainment businesses.
1. Vassallo Park Community Enhancements
(Estimated) $750,000 NY Forward
Capital improvements to promote more park use, arts
performances and installations, and enhance the central
community gathering and events space.
1. Croton Climbs Fitness & Pedestrian Mobility Project
(Estimated) $2,500,000 NY Forward
Wider sidewalks or bump-outs, benches and resting nodes near
the actual brook, dedicated and striped on-street parking for
residents, pedestrian beacon signal on North Riverside at Brook
Street, rehabilitate stone staircase and create patron parking at the
Municipal Building and improved pedestrian crosswalks and
connections from the Muni Building to Upper Village.
1. Brook Street Infill Housing Development
(Estimated) $1,500,000 NY Forward / Developer / $300,000
Village (ESD)*
Acquisition and development of a resident and visitor parking lot
on the smaller lot across Brook Street (pending Pro-Housing Grant
from Empire State Development*), clearance and site
infrastructure to prepare the Village surplus property as shovel
ready, and potential developer incentives to construct
mixed-income housing and waterfront-related retail once the
additional parking is created across the street.
1. Walking Upper Village Safety Project
(Estimated) $850,000 NY Forward

Provide more room for sidewalk dining (bump-outs), maintain slow
traffic movement, and provide shorter pedestrian crosswalks,
protect dummy light from vehicle damage with curbing and
appropriate curbing and landscaping.
~~~
Slow Down Croton - action - Matt A. to sync w/ Tom Smith (graphic
designer) on revised design/color scheme and next steps
● Yard signs
● Stickers
● Magnets

