Croton Fire Department – Fire Council Minutes
March 25, 2025
Roll Call – Colombo Sr., Caterino
Streany, Feminella, Vlad, Powers, Skiba, Tucci, Karpoff, Gilbert, Kaplan, Sarcone
Excused: Dinkler, Delaney, Russell
Len Simon, Bryan Healey, Scott Marsh
Asst. Chief Colombo opened the meeting at 7:03 PM with the pledge to the flag, followed by a moment of
silence. This meeting was dedicated to the recently deceased ex-Chief Gagliotti and the Mother of
Warden Brian Powers.
Special Order of Business
Village Manager Bryan Healy was present, no report.
Trustee Simon noted that the Village has begun the budget process for 2025-2026 and is quite
busy. Trustee Simon mentioned several projects for funding and some budget items the Chief’s have
submitted.
The meeting was suspended at 7:08 PM due to an emergency at the Croton-Harmon train station.
The meeting resumed at 7:32 PM, DPW Superintendent Scott Marsh began a presentation for the
Wardens on the EMS construction project at Harmon firehouse. Mr. Marsh provided a cost analysis to
date, along with projections for completion of the project anticipated in September.
Bill and Communications
Letter from Washington Engine regarding membership changes for the following members. Gordon
Ingalls Sr. from active to social
Jacob Jones from PAF to active.
Asa Strickland, Ryan Lavalle, and Trevor Weisz dropped company roles; these members were PAFs.
Motion, Kaplan, Tucci, WECO request be granted, carried.
Email from Kim Russell resigning as Fire Council secretary due to illness.
Motion Feminella, Vlad, to accept the resignation with regret, carried.
Fire Patrol will hold a special election to replace Warden Russell.
Chiefs Report.
Asst, Chief Caterino thanks members/companies who assisted with the wake/funeral for Ex-Chief
Gagliotti.
New boat was put in the water on Saturday, March 22. Radios to be installed soon.
UTV is expected to arrive soon; training for members is needed.
Warden Karpoff asked if he was receiving training notices from Westchester County and
distributing them to the members, Asst. Chief Caterino answered in the affirmative.

7/21/2025 8:50 AM

Warden Streany requested that the HEART Committee dedication at the Picture Tunnel have the
new boat display a water deluge to commemorate the event.
Asst. Chief Colombo reported WECO sink was fixed and the water issue at Harmon was taken
care of. No other known issues at firehouses at this time.
Committee Reports
Mike Feminella reports the new boat is gassed up and in the water at Croton Yacht Club.
Discussion as to how the boat will be fueled up in the future and where.
Report read from John Delaney regarding parades and Explorer Post activities. Council
previously approved Montrose, Yorktown and Ossining parades.
Discussion on band for Summerfest will need to be determined on cost and if Chief/Treasurer
Dinkler has the fund to hire a band. Tabled.
WECO rig committee has met with the apparatus company and will have specifications prepared
for the Village Manager as requested on or before May 31, 2025.
Big Bucks; all companies have their tickets. Drawing is on June 1, 2025 at 5:00 PM at
Summerfest. All tickets, sold and unsold, need to be turned in at 3:30 PM. The 10K will be the
first awarded prize, and the 5K will be the second drawing prize. Each Company is to deliver a
check for $3000.00 to Warden Streany on or before May 15, 2025.
Adam Decker reported on the progress for the 501.C non-profit application he is working on and
requested to the names of three people to be officers of the Council organization to begin the
process. Chris Colombo, Chris Caterino and Joe Streany’s names were provided.
Motion, Kaplan, Skiba that the names mentioned be recorded as officers of the council, carried.
Discussion held on tax IDs and exempt numbers for the Council and the Companies. Council is
the priority due to action with the State Attorney General's office.
Unfinished Business
Motion Gilbert, Vlad to pay Joe Streany for the acting Council secretaries’ position for the
months he has handled, carried.
Discussion on finding a new permanent Council Secretary. Companies are requested to see if there is a
member who may want the job. Village Manager Healey indicated if the Council cannot find a secretary,
he would canvass the Village admin staff to see if anyone was interested.
Discussion on Chief Dinkler's email to Council regarding ESO database not providing accurate reports as
it should. Questions were asked regarding the current license and service agreements for the software and
how we can get the necessary support needed to run reports and get the information from the system.
At this time the required percentage of call for 2024 for members is not accurately available for the
Council to act.
Motion, Gilbert, Vlad to extend the percentage of calls report to the April council meeting, carried.

7/21/2025 8:50 AM

The 2024 LOSAP resolution and membership information have been sent to the Village Manager/Board
on 3/24/25.
New Business
Warden Powers asked if PAFs are allowed to go on FAST team calls. Asst. Chief Colombo
indicated they are not.
Treasures Report
The checkbook balance is $11,386.79 (from the previous months minutes).
Motion: Feminella, Karpoff to accept Treasurer's report, carried.
Motion Gilbert, Vlad to adjourn the meeting, carried.

Meeting adjourned at 8:52 PM.

Respectfully submitted,
Joseph P. Streany
Secretary, Pro-temp

7/21/2025 8:50 AM

