Planning peer Minutes EP P ROVED

8:00 p.m.
PRESENT: Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky (via Zoom)
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Daniel Pozin, Village Attorney
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of July 1, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2. PUBLIC HEARING

a) Application to renew a special permit for a 29-unit multi-family development from The Matra
Group, LLC, 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-15)

Attorney Kory Salomone and property owner Anthony Matra were present in support of the application.

John Ghegan made a motion to open the public hearing for The Matra Group, LLC to renew a special
permit, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 5 -0.

Kory Salomone reported that there are currently no changes to the original application, they just need a
little more time. The applicant is in the process of obtaining a building permit. It was noted that ail the
conditions of the original special permit, issued in 2022, are still in effect.

Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience, and there were none.

Geoff Haynes made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried, 5 — 0.
Chairman Luntz read out the two conditions on the resolution to renew this special permit, which are that
all the conditions from the special permit issued on August 15, 2022 remain valid and must be complied
with, and that the special permit will expire, automatically, two years from the date of renewal, unless at
such time substantial construction has begun pursuant to the approved application.

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to renew the Special Permit for The Matra Group, LLC at 1380 Albany
Post Road for a 29-unit multi-family development, with the conditions on the resolution, seconded by

Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 — 0.

3. OLD BUSINESS


a) WBP Development, LLC, - 1 Croton Point Avenue (79.17-1-3,4 & 5) Application for Site Plan
Approval for a five-story building with 100 dwelling units and Subdivision Approval for
Consolidation Subdivision

Chairman Luntz noted that this is a housekeeping item. A site plan resolution for a five-story building with
100 dwelling units at 1 Croton Point Avenue was approved on June 17, 2025, but the resolution was
missing a condition regarding an agreed upon action. Condition #24 was added to the site plan resolution
which states, “That, under section 230-73 of the Village Zoning Code, the Planning Board finds that the
development of this site will contribute to population growth in the Village and that no suitable land is
available on the site for a park. Therefore, the Planning board hereby requires the payment by the
applicant to the Village of a fee in lieu of parkland in an amount and upon terms deemed satisfactory by
the Village Board in its discretion.”

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the amended resolution for site plan approval for WBP
Development, LLC for a five-story building with 100 dwelling units at 1 Croton Point Avenue, seconded by
John Ghegan, and carried, 5 — 0.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes 06/17/2025

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of June 17, 2025, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 — 0.

5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, Chairman Luntz made a motion to adjourn the

meeting and the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:11 p.m.

*“Minutes approved with a motion by Steve Krisky, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a
vote of 4-0, with Geoff Haynes being absent on July 15, 2025***


RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, The Matra Group, LLC has applied to renew a Special Permit for a 29-unit multi-
family development located at 1380 Albany Post Road in the North End Gateway (NEGD) and
Limited Office (O-1) Zoning Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-
on-Hudson as Section 67.10 Block 2 Lot 15; and

WHEREAS, on August 15", 2022, the Village Board of Trustees issued a special permit to The
Matra Group, LLC for a 29-unit multi-family development at 1380 Albany Post Road that ; and

WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA),
the Planning Board has determined that the renewal of the special permit is a Type Il Action,
and no further action under SEQRA is required.

WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 200 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing on the application was opened and closed on July 1st, 2025, and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board hereby renews the special
permit to The Matra Group. LLC for a 29-unit multi-family development located at 1380 Albany
Post Road., with the following conditions:

1. That all the conditions of the Special Permit issued on August 15, 2022 remain valid
and must be complied with.

2. That the Special Permit shall expire automatically two years from the date of
renewal, unless at such time substantial construction has begun pursuant to the
approved application. The Building Department shall have the discretionary authority
to issue a one-year extension for good cause shown.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan

Geoff Haynes

Steve Krisky (via Zoom)
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried by a vote of 5 to
0.

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on July 1st, 2025.


RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Planning Board held a public hearing on a Site Plan application on Tuesday,
April 15, 2025, Tuesday, May 6, 2025, and Tuesday, May 15, 2025, submitted by WBP
Development, hereafter known as “the Applicant,” for property located at 1 Croton Point Avenue
(also referred to as “1-3 Croton Point Ave./Lot A”) in the Light Industrial/Transit Oriented
Development Zoning Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-
Hudson as Section 79.17 Block 1 Lots 3,4, and 5; and

WHEREAS, this is a Site Plan, and Preliminary Consolidation Subdivision application for approval
of a five story, 100-unit apartment building and associated parking (the “Project”); and

WHEREAS, this proposal is considered an Unlisted Action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act (SEQRA); and

WHEREAS, on December 18, 2024, the Village Board determined that the Project, a
multifamily residential development consisting of 100 apartments within a five-story building,
complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP and
subsequently issued a Determination of Consistency with the Village’s LWRP; and

WHEREAS, on December 18, 2024, the Village Board as Lead Agency issued a Negative
Declaration under SEQRA in connection with the Project; and

WHEREAS, at the December 18, 2024, Village Board meeting, the Village Board of Trustees
adopted a resolution of special permit approval for the Project subject to certain conditions as
stated in said special permit resolution; and

WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section
120-3(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Site Plan incorporates the Excavation and
Filling Permit, subject to the conditions specified below; and

WHEREAS, under section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared for the Project by
Insite Engineering, Surveying and Landscape Architecture PC and last revised 4/30/25 and
hereby approves the said SWPPP, subject to the conditions specified below; and

WHEREAS, under section 208-16(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with section 208-16(F) of
the Village Code the approval of the Site Plan includes the approval to remove trees noted on the
site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Site Plan application, as shown on
Drawings (collectively, the “Site Plan Set”) prepared by Insite Engineering, Surveying &
Landscape Architecture, P.C., last revised on April 30, 2025, entitled “1 Croton Point” Sheet 1
“OP-1, Overall Site Plan,” Sheet 2, “EX-1 Existing Conditions & Removals Plan,” Sheet 3 SP-1,
“Layout & Landscape Plan,” Sheet 4, “SP-2 Grading & Utilities Plan,” Sheet 6, “LP-1
Photometric Lighting Plan,” Sheets 7 ‘“‘D-1 Details,” Sheet 8, “D-2 Details,” Sheet 9, “D-3
Details” and Sheet 10, “GIR-1 Geotechnical Inspection Reports;” Stormwater Pollution


Prevention Plan, dated April 30, 2025 and prepared by Insite Engineering, Surveying, &
Landscape Architecture, P.C.; and other documents submitted in support of the site plan
application, be approved subject to the following conditions:

1.
2

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

That the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.

That all conditions specified in the Special Permit issued by the Village Board on December
18, 2024 are incorporated herein as if set forth at length including the requirement to install a
new fire hydrant in front of the building in a location approved by the Fire Chief.

That the landscape plan shall include a two-year warranty for all landscape materials.

That the layout of the proposed water system improvements and sanitary sewer system
improvements will be finalized with input from, and to the satisfaction of the the Village
Engineer in coordination with the Village’s consulting engineer.

That a new address number for the property be established in coordination with the Village
Engineer, Town Assessor and Westchester County Department of Emergency Services.

That the Applicant submit the October 14, 2024, Traffic Impact Study for the Project to
NYSDOT and coordinate any necessary adjustments to the timing of traffic signals at the
intersections studied in the Traffic Impact Study.

That the applicant makes best efforts to work with the NYSDOT to receive approval to
remove all hardscape material (asphalt pavement, etc.) from the NYSDOT property formerly
leased by the Village for parking and to landscape the area after all hardscape material is
removed. The landscaping plan shall also include amenities for passive recreation and shall
be submitted to the Planning Board for approval.

That the applicant makes best efforts to work with the NYSDOT to receive approval to plant
additional landscaping in the NYSDOT ROW along their fence line on the east side of the
Project.

That the Project’s Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) be accepted by the Village
Engineer, in coordination with the Village’s consulting Engineer.

. That the approval of the NYSDOT be obtained for all improvements in the State ROW.
11.

That the Project includes not less than a quantity of electrical vehicle charging stations that
complies with New York State Stretch Energy Code, New York State Energy Code or other
New York State laws or regulations, and/or the requirements of the project funding sources,
and in no event, less than 10% of all parking spaces

That underground electrical conduits and associated equipment be installed from the garage
to all future electrical vehicle charging station locations to serve all external parking spaces
on the east and north sides of the building. The plans for the electrical conduit installation
shall be approved by the Village Engineer.

That a bond, or suitable security satisfactory to the Village be provided for all improvements
in the street ROW.

That a detailed construction staging plan be submitted to the Village Engineer prior to the
approval of a building permit.

That any sign application be submitted to the Planning Board for review and approval, and as
part of said application, be referred by the Planning Board to the Advisory Board on the
Visual Environment (VEB) for their review and comments, whereupon the Planning Board
shall have final review and approval as to same.

That the plans submitted with the building permit application substantially comply with the
architectural drawings and exterior material samples submitted with the application.

That the applicant shall obtain approvals from the Westchester County Health Department for
the necessary permits required for the sanitary sewer improvements, any water distribution
system improvements and backflow prevention devices.

That the Building Department be provided with documented sound transmission ratings of
the proposed windows and facade materials, as well as composite attenuation calculations to

2

4934-4803-8993, v. 1


19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25,

be completed by the Applicant’s architect, to be reviewed and approved by the Village and its
consultants. Review and approval of these materials prior to the issuance of a building permit
will provide assurance that the required level of noise attenuation documented in the Village
Board’s Negative Declaration [26-31 A-weighted decibels (dBA)] will be met.

That the Building Department shall be provided with a Soil Management Plan (SMP) and
specifications for the proposed vapor barrier to be completed by the Applicant’s engineer, to
be reviewed and approved by the Village and its consultants. Review and approval of the
SMP and proposed vapor barrier specifications prior to the issuance of a building permit will
provide assurance that as part of the Project’s construction, no impacts related to the creation
of hazards to human health will

That a bond or other suitable security be provided to cover all costs associated with any water
distribution system improvements. The amount of the bond shall be acceptable to the Village
Engineer and the form of the bond shall be acceptable to the Village Attorney.

That an easement acceptable to the Village Engineer be provided for the Village utilities
(water and electric) along the front property line and the easement agreement shall be
acceptable to the Village Attorney and Village Engineer and subsequently be presented to the
Village Board for acceptance and filed in the County Clerk’s Office.

That in accordance with Chapter 178 of the Village Code an escrow account in an amount as
reasonably determined by the Village Engineer shall be established for the Village to hire the
services of a consulting NYS Professional Engineer to assist the Village with the inspection
of site improvements including but not limited to the construction of the retaining walls,
installation of utilities and other site improvements.

That in accordance with section 86-7E of Chapter 86 of the Village Code an escrow account
in an amount as reasonably determined by the Village Engineer shall be established for the
Village to hire the services of licensed professionals to assist the Village with the review of
the building plans and specifications.

That, under section 230-73 of the Village Zoning Code, the Planning Board finds that the
development of this site will contribute to population growth in the Village and that no
suitable land is available on the site for a park. Therefore, the Planning Board hereby
requires the payment by the applicant to the Village of a fee in lieu of parkland in an amount
and upon terms deemed satisfactory by the Village Board in its discretion.

That the following conditions are established as part of the approval of the Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the Village Code:

a. That a copy of the SWPPP shall be retained at the site of the land
development activity during construction from the date of initiation
of construction activities to the date of final stabilization.

b. That no land disturbance work shall commence until the installation
of the sediment and erosion control devices has been completed and
found acceptable by the Village Engineer or his authorized agent.

c. That each contractor and subcontractor who will be involved in soil
disturbance and/or stormwater management practice installation
shall sign and date a copy of the following certification statement
before undertaking any land development activity: "I certify under
penalty of law that [ understand and agree to comply with the terms
and conditions of the stormwater pollution prevention plan. I also
understand that it is unlawful for any person to cause or contribute
to a violation of water quality standards." Copies of these statements
shall be delivered to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a
building permit.

4934-4803-8993, v. 1


i. That the certification must include the name and title of the
person providing the signature, address and telephone
number of the contracting firm; the address (or other
identifying description) of the site; and the date the
certification is made.

ii. That the certification shall contain proof that each
contractor who will be involved in a land development
activity has obtained training and/or certification in proper
erosion and sedimentation control practices. Such
certification shall become part of the SWPPP for the land
development activity and shall be retained on-site.

That the applicable stormwater facility maintenance, inspection
and repair requirements in section 196-9 of the Village Code be
complied with, a maintenance and inspection plan shall be submitted
to the Village Engineer or his authorized agent for approval.

That the applicant shall contact the Village Engineer or his
authorized agent at least 48 hours before any of the work
inspections listed in section 196-10(A)(1) of the Village Code are
required.

That in accordance with section 196-10(C) an as-built plan of the
stormwater management practices shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer or his authorized agent.

That in accordance with section 196-10(F) the landowner shall grant
to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable times and
in a reasonable manner for the inspection of the stormwater
management facilities.

That in accordance with section 196-11 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (g) above, said
bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with
amount and form of the bond to be approved by the Village.

26. That in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the approval to remove trees:

4934-4803-8993, v. 1

a,

That any landscaping, shown on approved plan, be installed prior to
a certificate of occupancy being issued. That all disturbed areas not
hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered with 3” of topsoil,
perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and remulched as
necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or covered
with other ground cover as shown on the approved landscaping plan.

That if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are removed or
severely damaged during construction, the applicant will replace
each removed tree or severely damaged tree with a tree of 2.5”
minimum caliber with the species to be approved by the Village
Engineer or his authorized agent.

That the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor
and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above or
as required by the Village Engineer.

That in accordance with section 208-19(A) of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
payable to the Village in an amount reasonably acceptable to the

4


Village Engineer to cover the completion of conditions (a) through
(c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building
permit with amount and form of the bond to be approved by the
Village.

That tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.

That any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed to less
than two feet.

That no tree removal! shall occur unless a building permit has been
issued by the Village Engineer.

That within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals the
Village Engineer or his authorized agent shall be notified of such
completion.

That the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term of site
plan approval and shall terminate upon the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.

27 That in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the following
conditions are established for the approval of the excavation and fill work:

4934-4803-8993, v. 1

a.

That suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48”, be provided
to guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates
shall be locked at all times when work is not being performed on
the property.

That excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to stormwater
drainage, water bodies and/or wetlands.

That during construction all excavations shall be drained so that
any standing water at the bottom is not greater than one foot.

That any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all
fill from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.

That appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented
on-site and on access roads and any traveled areas used in
connection with any excavation and/or filling work to protect the
public and surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.

That removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with
the orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not
unreasonably impede traffic flow, or parking.

That to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in
before permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by
the Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
That provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the

5


4934-4803-8993, v. 1

permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.

That any excess soil from the excavation shall be removed from the
site immediately but in no event more than 20 days from
excavation.

That all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3” of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be
reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85%
grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on the
approved landscaping plan.

That the Village Engineer or his authorized agent shall be notified
by the next business day if bedrock is encountered in the
excavation. If hammering is required, a rock excavation plan shall
be submitted to the Village Engineer or his authorized agent for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two to three week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer or his
authorized agent may extend this period on a day by day basis due
to weather events that would not allow reasonable working
conditions. The rock excavation plan shall also include an analysis
of leaving part of the basement a crawl space to reduce the quantity
of bedrock required to be excavated.

That in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said
bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with
amount and form of the bond to be approved by the Village.

. That excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted

between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through
Friday and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday
through Sunday.

That there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.

That the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling
operations during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such
additional reasonable conditions are necessary.

That the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified
in section 120-10(A) of the Village Code.

That any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a
submission of a new application to the Planning Board shall be
required,


r. That following the completion of the work the applicant shall
submit a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design
professional to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may
require the submission of an as-built survey.

s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be
suspended or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in
section 120-10(E)-(G) of the Village Code.

Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and
void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the
expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan

Geoffrey Haynes

Steve Krisky

Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve revised resolution by Geoff Haynes, seconded by John Ghegan, and
carried by a vote of 5 — 0, with Steve Krisky participating via Zoom.

4934-4803-8993, v. 1
