Planning Board Meeting Minutes
June 3, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Dan Pozin, Village Attorney
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of June 3, 2025 to order at 8:01 p.m.
2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) 368 S. Riverside, LLC, 368 South Riverside Ave. (79.13-1-71) Application for Special Permit
and Amended Site Plan to add a second story on an existing rear dwelling
Architect John Power was present in support of the application. A variance was granted in May of 2021,
legalizing an existing cottage behind a commercial space on this mixed-use property to be used as a
studio apartment. With this application, the applicant is looking to construct a second floor on to the
existing structure allowing for improved living space, potentially increasing the tenants from one person to
two. The proposed addition will be a one-bedroom unit with a small office space. The applicant received
the required variances.
There is no issue with the height of the building, and the building footprint is not changing. This is not an
accessory cottage, it is a mixed-use property, with an accessory building out back. There is sufficient
parking according to current parking requirements.
Steve Krisky made a motion to hold a public hearing for 368 S. Riverside, LLC's applications for a special
permit and amended site plan, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried, 5 - 0.
b) Discussion of Chapter 116, Environmental Review, of the Village Code to update the list of
Type II actions for the Planning Board
As per Dan O'Connor, years ago, NY State allowed local agencies to adopt their own list of Type II
actions, actions that are not considered to have a significant impact on the environment. The Village
Board of Trustees, Planning Board, Zoning Board, and others adopted lists of actions that they
considered to be Type II actions. Now that the Planning Board is issuing special permits, the Planning
Board's list should be updated. A revised list of Type II actions for the Planning Board is attached to
these minutes. The Planning Board agreed to discuss the matter again at the June 17, 2025 Planning
Board meeting.

1

3.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review an application to Renew a Special Permit
from Ordonez, Marco - M & J Auto Repair Corp., 425 South Riverside Ave. (79.13-2-91)
Marco Ordonez was present in support of the application. Chairman Luntz said only action is to call for a
public hearing on this application to renew the special permit for a repair garage at 425 S. Riverside Ave.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to call a public hearing for M & J Auto Repair Corp.'s application to renew
their special permit to operate a repair garage at the next regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 5 - 0.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes May 20th, 2025

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of May 20th, 2025, as amended,
seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

5.

ENGINEER'S REPORT

Steve Krisky asked about the design center on Albany Post Road and the status of their temporary
certificate of occupancy. Dan O'Connor said that the owner of the design center needs to go back to the
department of transportation to work out some arrangement as the property owner encroached on the
DOT's right of way. Steve Krisky believes that the property is an eyesore and along with the longstanding site plan approval violations, now has three dump trucks parked improperly along the fence line.
Steve Krisky brought up the sign for Historic Hudson Valley and noted that their sign on 9A is visibly
rusting, drab, and unattractive. Steve Krisky says that as it is the first thing that you see driving into
Croton, the sign should be updated. The Planning Board discussed sending a letter voicing concern to
Historic Hudson Valley. Dan O'Connor said that Historic Hudson Valley does have a plan to replace the
billboard.
The Planning Board members discussed a letter that was sent from a Piney Point Avenue resident, but
the Planning Board did not have any action to take as the issue appears to be between two property
owners.

6.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, Chairman Luntz made a motion to adjourn the
meeting and the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:58 p.m .
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended, with a motion by Steve Krisky, seconded by Geoff Haynes and
carried, 5 - 0 on June 171h, 2025.***

2

