Croton Fire Department - Fire Council Meeting July 29,2025
Roll Call: P.Dinkler, C.Columbo, A.Decker
Excused: William F Skiba, D.Vlad, C.Sarcone, M.Feminella,C.Caterino,J.Gilbert
Wardens: J.Delaney,B.Powers, J.Karpoff, D.Dunn, J.Munson J.Streany,T.Kaplan,B.Cerato,
Deputy Mayor Simon, Village Manager Healy
Chief Dinkler opened the meeting at 19:14pm due to a call with a pledge to the flag and a
Moment of Silence for Deceased Members.
Special Order of Business:
Deputy Mayor Simon advised us of the following upcoming dates - Sept 27th October Fest in
the center of village and October 28th Rotary Car Show at the train station.
Village manager Healy - Said just happy to be here.
CFD Member Mark Wunsch was in attendance to receive his Department Badge He was
issued Badge # 3004
Adam Decker reports that he got the EIN and payments on the 503c process. And had brian
Healy write a letter backing the fire dept and this is so we can continue with our fund drive.
J.Streaney talked about how the 2% money gets reported to cover us with the auditing. Powers
talked about the further steps needed to be done like bylaw changes etc.
Bills and Communications:
1)​ Received a $45 Gift Certificate from NYS Assoc of Fire Chiefs
2)​ Thank You letter from Skyview NH for the participation in there 4th of july parade held of
7/2/25
3)​ Letter from Shaker Road FD( Loudonville- Albany NY) looking for a donation for their
Explorer Post Motion made By J.Munson 2nd by J,Streany not to act on it.
4)​ School Leave Request from Ryan Eng Motion Made by J.Karpoff 2nd by J.Streany to
accept Carried
5)​ Explorer Application for Sean Munson Motion made by J.Karpoff 2nd by J.Streany to
accept Carried
6)​ Received final report from Big Bucks Chairman J.Streany ( Details in Committee Report)
7)​ Letter Received from Washington Eng Regarding Multiple things
A)​ Application from Anirudh Saravanan to go from Explorer to PAF Motion Made by
J.Karpoff 2nd By J.Streany to Accept Carried
B)​ Letter of Resignation from Jacob Jones Motion made by J.Karpoff 2nd by
J.Streany Carried
C)​ Letter from Nick Ambos to go Social Motion made by J.Karpoff 2nd by J.Streany
Carried
D)​ Letter Steve Dominello to go on Medical Leave active immediately Motion Made
by J.Karpoff 2nd by J.Streany to accept Carried
E)​ At the meeting of 7/14/2025, washington engine voted to nominate Chris
Colombo for the position of chief of the croton fire department Motion Made By
J.Munson 2nd J.Streany to accept Carried

Croton Fire Department - Fire Council Meeting July 29,2025
8) Received Communication from from Columbian Hook and ladder Company Requesting
that we Please remove FF Justin Cusano (ID# 550) from the Military Leave list, and return him
to the Active Members list. Motion Made by T.Kaplan 2nd By J.Streany to accept carried
9) Received a letter from The Law offices of Mark C Butler just advising us of our balance.

Chiefs Report
Chief Dinkler: Thank all for coming out on training,Calls etc, make sure all stay hydrated with
the heat.
Asst Chief Colombo : Thank you to all companies for all you do, Thank you to Harmon Engine
for lake george, thank you to all that came out for the walk through. Looks like all is going well
next door and wish they could clean up a bit and not charge tools all night. Brian Powers replied
that last week the doors were left open.

Asst Chief Caterino: No Report
Committee Reports:
Ladder 44 New truck - Still on Track for October 2027
Engine 120 New truck - No Report
Engine 119 New truck - Meeting tomorrow to go over stuff. The next move is to finalize the
stuff. The next move is to finalize the specifications and send it over to the village.
Mini Attack 33 (UTV): got the initial proposal to do all the work to put it in service but needed
some changes so i sent it back and am waiting for updates
Big Bucks: final report has been completed and handed in total tickets sold 1918 total tickets
unsold 82.
Inspection: Guests arrive @ Noon cocktail hr is @ Chemical Engine and they are handling the
beverages and cocktail hr. 1pm is the formal part of the inspection that's completed at approx
2pm-2:15pm @ Croton Point park which has been secured thanks to Frank they waved the
parking fee,they waved the $500 for the Pavilion. The invitations need to go out which chief
Dinkler said he is working on. They based the estimate on 75 people. There will be a final
estimate and cost.
Parade Committee: Ossining Parade is this Friday E119 TL44 and Rescue 18 to attend and we
are the first division on the corner of calam ave and Croton Ave yonkers military will be our
band.
County Convention Parade list of events Thurs Sept 18th is the county Dinner, Friday Sept 19th
is a friendship night at Lot F by the water from 6pm - 10pm there will be refreshments and
entertainment provided and Saturday Sept 20th is the the Dress Parade with lineup @ 2pm and

Croton Fire Department - Fire Council Meeting July 29,2025
Step Off @ 3pm All in Tarrytown. Council voted to not pay for a band motion made by J.Munson
2nd by J.Streany carried. But T.Kaplan said to send the Prices to the companies attending to
see if they wanna pay for it.
Losap Committee: No Report

Fire Prevention Committee: theme Charge into safety lithium ion batteries in your home. The
committee is starting to work and get the ball rolling.Fire Fair is Sunday October 5th which is
the first day of fire prevention week this year. NFPA educators conference which will be held on
Tuesday. Thinking about changing out some of our vendors and using NFPA instead of positive
promotions, their kit is at a competitive price. Meetings to be announced. We are getting a good
head start and we will be dedicating this year's fire fair to Tex named Thomas Tex Dinkler Fire
Fair Motion made by B.Powers 2nd by J.Streany Carried Discussion about fixing up any props.
We are looking to redo the through the window one. J.Streany asked if we had any helmets left.
Unfinished Business: Discussion on meeting with Municipal Marketing regarding the status
of our contract and the progress of the Croton Fire Department's 501(C status.
It appears we will not have a 2025 direct mail fund drive, which means two years without

donations.
The possible lawsuit that never went anywhere and has been handled finding were that he
was not responding to a call and no issues on Fd
B.Powers asked about the Final 2024 call reports and up till now on the 2025 numbers we
have no idea what those numbers are. Normally by now members should have gotten
letters. J.Streany said at this point that the record stands. Bylaws say we have to have the
report in march. Motion J.Karpoff and 2nd by J.Munson to have a report by August 15th
and stand our ground the ones that didn't make calls. . Carried
J.Streany asked: The list of physicals that don sent was extensive and the current signup is
not matching the list.
New Business: Croton Seniors used the building on Friday and there were broken tables
and floors were dirty etc. Chief Dinkler will reach out to the rec dept.
Chief Dinkler brought up to council to get a new ex-chief plaque at the administration
building. We have 76 names currently on there and 2 quotes, one that holds 120 which is
$1200 and one that holds 96 which is $984 Questions by 2081 about holding off till we
figure out everything with the fund drive and the Finances.
Treasurer’s Report: received the funds for both 2% $73,127.71 split 5 ways Gives the 5
companies $14,625.55 and Town of Cortlandt $57,541 split 6 ways gives the 5 companies and

Croton Fire Department - Fire Council Meeting July 29,2025
fire Council $9,590. The account balance is currently $139,000 due to still having those checks
in the account.
Motion made by J.Streany 2nd by Delaney carried
J.Streany made a Motion requesting stipend for covering the Council Secretary position for 6
months (Dec,Feb,March,April,May,June)
2nd by columbo

Adjournment:
Motion- J.Munson
2nd - T.Kaplan
Motion Carried
Meeting Adjourned @ 20:28

Respectfully Submitted
John E Delaney Jr
Council Secretary

