Meeting Minutes for CAC meeting February 11th , 2025
In attendance: John Ealer, Eva Thaddeus, Sherry Horowitz, Halle Clarke, Rachel Bernstein, Mayor Pugh, David
Daly and Jason Mencher. One guest
Absent: Nora Nicholson (Trustee liaison), Steve Krisky (Planning Board liaison)
1.
2.
3.
4.

Members observed a moment of silence for Lance Amato
Approval of January minutes: unanimous
John introduced David Daly and Jason Mencher, our newest members.
Formalizing Committee Policies
Rachel suggested an introduction that expresses our welcoming attitude toward public participation,
committee agreed. Committee agreed that the listed policies should be implemented. Mayor suggested
adding an amendment which allows the committee to reserves the right, through majority vote, to
temporary suspend policies in order to extend discussions as deemed necessary. John wants to create
additional guidelines for committee procedures etc. that can act as a kind of guidebook for future
committees.
5. Trails – reported by Dave Daly
Proposed the creation of a connector trail to the Arboretum by securing an easement agreement from
one of the five residents along Giglio Court. Mayor said this process would have to go through the
Village Manager. Dave suggested trying to get a source map for the trails. Right now, only a PDF exists,
to his knowledge. Dave suggested continuing the River Walk north of the landing. The Major added that
this would entail a complex coordination of entities such as the state, Metro North and CSX.
6. Mayor’s Monach Pledge
Eva postponed recommendation to next month’s meeting. Mayor requested a recommendation from
the Garden Club regarding Croton pursuing a Bee City designation.
7. Garden Club
8. Eva met with Manager Healy to discuss design, plant list and budget for landscaping the new median
strip on Cleveland just north of traffic circle at Benedict. It was suggested that the other sections would
be grass and flowering trees to limit maintenance. The garden club does not have the labor pool to
handle the maintenance. Planting is planned for April.
9. Clean – John reported updates
Next Clean up on North Riverside on March 8th at 11am. Cub Scouts will be doing clean up of Silver
Lake Park. Temple of Israel signed up to help in April. DOT still hasn’t put up a sign.
10. Repair Café – Sherry reporting
Halle and Sherry met with Janet. Halle is working on supply list for DPW to purchase. We have all the
coaches signed up except still in need of one wood worker. Sherry attended zoom meeting for Repair
Cafes in the Hudson Valley.. Halle/Sherry will make a sign up sheet for CAC members to volunteer for
March 29th.
11. Earth Day – discussion led by John with Ellen on the phone
Start time changed to 11am, ending at 4pm .Earth day will remain at the Senasqua location . Rachel on
sign making. Signs will be picked up in back of municipal building
Confirmed Entertainment and Vendors : See John’s PDF ( attached), that is dated Feb 11th.

John expressed desire to make ED a movement , not just an event, with extra happenings such
as Climate Café event at Black Cow that evening. Village is waiving fee for non-profits. Sherry offered to
follow up on the following: yoga instructor, DJ, singer songwriter Fred Gillem Jr. , Croton River Gallery,
Cary Andrews – birding
Challenge of getting multiple food trucks was discussed. Alcohol will not be served. Ellen will
reach out to Save Sanctuary. Discussion of Micheal Balter as vendor. Eva and Rachel raised objections
since they didn’t feel his publication was closely related to the theme of the event. John responded that
we need to discuss further, including the suggestion that we need to have guidelines by which to accept
or reject. Eva will work on getting more activities for kids, perhaps with the garden club . Tree giveaway
will be discussed next month. Jason suggested promoting ED through Happy Hearts.
Open Mic
Sherry brought up the lack of compliance with the Idling law was not being followed. John said he’d add it to
Agenda next month.
Tree Law : John reiterated our position that enforcement and the services of a professional arborist are critical
and that the village shouldn’t expect the arborist to be a volunteer. Mayor Pugh suggestion that this need
might be wrapped into an existing RFP for consulting help.

