MEETING SUMMARY

Croton IDEA Advisory 3/14
14 March 2025 / 2:45 – 4:15 PM / Municipal Building Small Conference Room
Youth Members​
The committee welcomed our first two Youth Members.
Croton Welcomes Everyone​
The subcommittee reported on the newly rejected elements of the program.
Everyone discussed the program’s options and remaining assets. All present voted to
move the CoH WE forward with a web page revision, an alternative method for
business participation, and one-directional communication, possibly including video.
MLK, Jr. Student Day of Service​
IDEA welcomes student participation and conversation next Friday, March 21. The
volunteer students, escorted by their counselor, plan to create a poster for IDEA’s
Juneteenth events.
Update on STAR (Students Together Against Racism) Programs​
The committee was pleased to hear about STAR Club’s recent program, a screening
for Black History Month. We discussed the students’ upcoming presentations.
Immigrant Issues​
The Know Your Rights Croton Community Webinar is ready for Thursday, March 20, at
6:30 – 8:00 PM. Croton Free Library is cohosting and providing the Zoom. We’re
grateful to Gwen Glazer for her technical expertise and publicity work. The Black Cow
generously donated work hours for graphic design by staff member Miles Karteron.
We’re also grateful to the community’s presenters: lan Murtaugh, Brian Pugh,
Stephen Walker, Officer Jandres, and Melanie Zamenhof. Questions are submitted in
advance online and around town. We hope to have translated captions available.
Donated Red Cards, which state US residents’ constitutional rights, are available at
the Municipal Building.
Pride flag-raising ceremony ​
Possible dates are May 31, June 1, and June 8. The team will order a Progress Flag. We will
request to reserve space in an area of the parking lot. June 1st date would take place before
Summerfest.
Juneteenth​
A working itinerary is taking shape. It includes performers, speakers, and food vendors at
Vassallo Park 2–4 PM, an event at Grand 4:30–6:30, and an after-hours Open Mic at Black
Cow. Tents, chairs, tables, and water will be requested.

Info gathering for disability program continues. The team spoke to an official at the New
York Alliance for Developmental Disabilities (2/20) and will soon talk with officials at
Croton-Harmon SEPTA (3/21) & Westchester Institute for Human Development (3/27).
Spanish Translation for Recreation and Sports Info
School staff have translated some Village recreation material to make summer camp
offerings more accessible. IDEA will continue to advocate for regular translation of
recreation applications and regular communication with appropriate school staff.
Lunar New Year 2026
All present voted to develop a Lunar New Year celebration later this year.

