Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting
Monday, February 10, 2025

Present:

Debi Braddick, Karen Pecora, Emily Boglioli, Kyle Raum, Pete
Sedlmair, John Sasso, Nora Nicholson, John Bouchard and
Mark Duncan. Excussed- Frances Catanio

Meeting Called to Order: The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. by Debi.
Approval of Minutes: The January minutes well be approved in the March
meeting.
Black Rock Park, Dog Park & Bocce Court: It was mentioned that it would
be helpful if a small shed or bin be placed near the Bocce Courts so the
equipment could be stored rather than some of the regulars carting them in
the vehicles. DPW will take a look around the area to see where one could
be placed.
Update on Gouveia Park: Debi updated the Recreation Advisory Committee
on Gouveia Park. The grant that the Village applied for, in order to make
upgrades to the park, did not go through thus putting hold of the renovations,
hopefully they will be able to use some of the donation monies to make
improvements in the upcoming years.
Replacement of Dobbs Playground & Basketball Court: The Village
received official notification from the United States Department of Housing
& Urban Development (HUD) that it will receive $200,000 for the
removal/replacement of the Dobbs Park Playground & Basketball Court.
The Village will have to match the $200,000 grant and will look to start the
process soon.
Naming of Pocket Park: Debi shared with the Recreation Advisory
Committee that we were asked to partner with the HEART committee in
helping name the “Pocket Park” located at the Maple Commons Apartments.
The Recreation Advisory Committee brought up and voted to name the park-

John Giglio Park. Debi will be in touch with the HEART Committee to
inform them of the name that was chosen.
Spring/Summer Field Meeting: The annual Spring/Summer field meeting
was held on Thursday, January 21st and went well. Those in attendance
were field user groups: Youth Lacrosse, High School, Adult Soccer, AYSO
and Little League. CHHS Athletic Director, Christine Drago informed the
group that the Spenser new turf Field (not the track) might be complete and
available to use in late April early May. The High School also reported that
CET field has been extended to allow for a full-sized soccer field. The
anticipated date for the fields to open will be the first weekend of April or
sooner depending on the weather.
Miscellaneous:
Adjournment: The meeting was adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
The next regular meeting is scheduled for Monday, March 10, 2025 @ 7:00 p.m.

