Planning Board Meeting Minutes
February 7th, 2023

a,:-oo p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Eva Thaddeus
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

,..

0 !~;~w~~

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 7th, 2023 to order at 8:02 p.m.
2. OLD BUSINESS
a) Sol Systems - Veteran's Plaza (79.17-2 Lots 10 and plo 5) Site Plan Approval Resolution
Revision for solar canopies and battery energy storage system at the Croton Harmon Train
Station Parking Lot - extension of Wetland Permit expiration date.
When the original resolution for this application was written, the standard language for a Wetland Permit
was used. A Wetland Permit is normally valid for one year, but the issuing authority can specify an end
date, so the suggestion is extend the end date for the Wetland Permit so that it coincides with site plan
approval that was issued at the same time.
Steve Krisky made a motion to accept the revised resolution for Sol Systems' Wetland Permit to run until
September 281h, 2024, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 5-0.

b) Boulos, John - 30 Piney Point Avenue (79.13-4-44) Amendment of minor site plan approval
for single-family house construction to modify certain aspects of the land, architectural
and site plans.
Applicant John Boulos and Eddie Suydam, contractor were present in support of this application. The
applicant stated that he is not a builder, but he went on a venture to build a house for his children or
grandchildren. The applicant stated that he is requesting a couple of minor landscaping changes since
bamboo has grown wildly. The bamboo has created beautiful privacy, but as it is continuing to grow, the
applicant moved some trees and made some adjustments to the initial planting that was approved
approximately four years ago. Rob Luntz asked if the request was to amend the landscape plan and
modify certain aspects of the site plan, including the mesh that was agreed on for stabilization of the
steep slope. The applicant said that yes, that is correct, but when they got the original approval, they did
not have the retaining wall. It was clarified that the final site plan that was approved by the Planning
Board included the retaining wall between the two parking areas and the mesh below. This applicant and
the applicant from 32 Piney Point built a retaining wall across the two properties, between the two
carports, six-feet high that diminished the long slope from the street and made an area that people could
actually use. According to the applicant, if they put the mesh there it would A) devalue the property and
B), it is not necessary as the slope is no longer there.

1

Contractor Eddie Suydam stated that they dropped the slope approximately eight feet on one side and
five feet on the other side of the property and they also have a letter from a geotechnical engineer
(Gregory Pillori of Pillori Associates) stating that after reviewing the slope contours of both lots, post
construction, he (Gregory Pillori) does not believe that rock netting will be necessary to stabilize the slope
surfaces due to the installed concrete retaining wall spanning between the two lots and the lowered finial
grading throughout.
The applicant suggested that the Planning Board members go to see the site to see for themselves that
the steel mesh is no longer required . Rob Luntz believes that a site visit is a good idea as the Planning
Board went through an extensive, lengthy approval process for what was needed to stabilize the slope
and there was engineering around the idea of having the mesh installed with nails that go into the soil and
plantings that were associated with that. Contractor Eddie Suydam said that since they dropped the
grades down, there is not more than two feet of soil on top of the rock and in most of the yard they had to
hammer rock to put the drainage in for the yard drainage. According to Eddie Suydam, you might get a
one foot drop every three or four feet, so it is not a steep slope. The applicant stated that the steel mesh
would make it unusable and potentially open them to a law suit as someone could rip their ankle. The
applicant would not want kids to walk on steel mesh on the property. The applicant believes that he has
done everything to alleviate any concerns, especially by building a very expensive retaining wall which
has changed the whole topography.
Rob Luntz noted that the letter from Pillori Associates was addressed to the property owners of both 30
and 32 Piney Point Avenue. The applicant who was present stated that yes, the letter applies to both
properties because they both put up the wall, but three quarters of the wall is on his property at 30 Piney
Point Ave. Contractor Eddie Suydam stated that the retaining wall made it a more usable piece of
property and that there have been many storms over the past two years and the property did not wash
away.
Rob Luntz stated that a site visit is warranted. In addition, there was a peer review for the engineering at
the time of the original approval by Chazen Engineering. Rob Luntz is not comfortable accepting the
letter from Pillori Associates at face value given the history of the property, so he would suggest referring
the letter at least to Chazen Engineering for review and maybe inviting Chazen on the site walk.
Steve Krisky asked Dan O'Connor for clarification on how the mesh is placed on the ground. Dan
O'Connor said that you would use a weedwhacker to cut everything down, bolt the mesh through the soil,
then the vegetation would grow up through it.
Rob Luntz stated that he lacked the expertise to decide on the steel mesh and the letter from Pillori
Associates was thin. Eddie Suydam stated that the engineer who reviewed the site previously was not a
construction guy and misled people and caused issues surrounding the property. Rob Luntz would
disagree and respects the professional opinion and qualifications of the engineer (Bob Anderson).
Eddie Suydam stated that they built two beautiful homes on steep slopes that would no longer qualify as
steep slopes. The applicant does not want to start getting additional bills from more people getting
involved. Rob Luntz sympathizes with the applicant, but also wants to visit the property and invite the
engineer from Chazen who originally reviewed the plans to at least read the letter from Pillori Associates
and advise the Planning Board on how to proceed. Dan O'Connor stated that he would get an estimate
from LaBella Associates (formerly known as Chazen).

2

Dan O'Connor brought up the other item that the applicant wishes to change from the approved plans and
that is the removal of lattice around a portion of the exterior steel superstructure. The applicant stated that
where there was originally wood, they used steel which is stronger and they also put windows in the utility
room (that is behind where the lattice would be) to brighten it up. The applicant believes adding lattice
over the steel will look ugly as it is nicely painted steel that looks good.
Eva Thaddeus asked about the bamboo on the property. The applicant says that a good portion of the
bamboo is on his property. The applicant did not plant the bamboo but he knows that it will grow wildly.
The applicant thinks the bamboo is a beautiful use of landscape and offers great privacy. Eva Thaddeus
states bamboo is an invasive plant and is on the New York State do not plant list. Eva Thaddeus went by
the property and noticed that it was providing a good service as a quick, easy screen, but if it is spreading
to the neighbor's property, the applicant would be obligated to stop it from spreading. The applicant said
that he does not know where the bamboo came from and maybe it came from the neighbor's property.
The applicant stated that the neighbor can cut down whatever he wants on his own property, but the
applicant is not taking it down on his property. John Ghegan stated that the roots of bamboo grow near
the surface, so you could stop the growth with a steel barrier. Rob Luntz said that they will look at the
request to alter the approved landscape plan. The applicant said that he had the landscape plan redone
based on the change in the topography. The applicant does not want to cut trees down to plant new
trees. The applicant pointed to the plans that were shown on the screen to show where the changes
were and where the trees were shifted. Rob Luntz asked Dan O'Connor if he advised the applicant to
move the trees. Dan O'Connor pointed out the storm water and the sewer easement on the plans to
justify moving the trees slightly. The trees have already been planted. Eddie Suydam said that they are
also going to add planters in the parking area, on three sides, with three-foot box woods going all the way
around to create a fence .
The Planning Board members discussed their availability and gave Dan O'Connor some possible dates to
schedule a site visit with LaBella (formerly known as Chazen).
c)

Franzoso, Mark - 32 Piney Point A venue (Section 79. 13-4-45) Amendment of minor site plan
approval for single-family house construction to modify certain aspects of the landscape,
architectural and site plans.

Mark Franzoso was not present in support of this application, but plans to attend the site visit when
scheduled.
d) Accessory Apartment/Accessory Dwelling Units

A work session is tentatively scheduled for March 3rd , with members of the Village Board to discuss
ADUs. Dan O'Connor suggested that the Planning Board might want to look at this issue in two parts,
one for units in the primary structure, the other, new proposal for the approval of ADUs in separate
structures on the property, like accessory cottages. Rob Luntz believes that the changes to the
accessory apartment regulations, including changing the square footage, seem good.
Rob Luntz and Geoff Haynes had different interpretations of the information sent out to the Planning
Board regarding ADUs in Hastings-on-Hudson and if they were limited to properties in the R-20 District.
Steve Krisky was interested in finding out about communities that looked into adopting ADU regulations
and decided not to. Dan O'Connor has reached out to Tiffany Zezula at Pace University Law for
additional information. Steve Krisky suggested that Dan O'Connor reach out to the Town Supervisor in

3

the Town of New Castle who was quoted in an article in The Examiner (that Steve Krisky brought a copy
of) stating that he was opposed to the ADUs.
Steve Krisky stated that Croton has produced a lot of affordable housing and there is more to come in the
near future and wondered if Croton has already done their part to contribute to affordable housing. Rob
Luntz offered to share a model law from California, which is the birthplace of the ADU movement.
Rob Luntz believes that in Croton it is an issue of scale and that maybe larger districts can handle an
additional 800 square-foot building on their lot due to it being a larger parcel. Steve Krisky is concerned
about detached buildings on properties as he sees it as changing the zoning code. Steve Krisky also has
concerns about Airbnbs and VRBO situations and suggests considering leases that would have a
minimum stay requirement. Steve Krisky also mentions bed and breakfast situations which would mean
that you could potentially be living next to a business.
Eva Thaddeus said that the Croton Housing Task Force's report lists giving seniors an opportunity to
have additional income to stay in their homes as only one reason that they are encouraging more
accessory apartments and the other, more important reason is the lack of affordable housing rental units
in the Village. For this reason, it would be desirable for the ADUs to be longer term rentals, not Bed &
Breakfasts or transient rentals. It is also a reason to have cottages in addition to accessory apartments,
to offer more options. Eva Thaddeus said that the results of the Croton Housing Task Force reported that
more than 50% of Croton residents, renters and owners, pay more than 50% of their income on housing.
Geoff Haynes stated that these numbers were extrapolated from federal numbers and there was not a
survey in Croton particularly.
Geoff Haynes said that the challenge is the cottages, where they might belong and what are good
guidelines around them. Dobbs Ferry limits the number of ADUs to 50, but the Planning Board expressed
concerns about letting some people have ADUs and others not. There are many variables to consider
including, location, zoning, additional inspections for Village staff. Steve Krisky believes that the Planning
Board could recommend to the Village Board that ADUs should only be allowed in certain parts of town
where there is a lot more land and it would be less intrusive on neighbors. Eva Thaddeus says that one
of the ideas in the Croton Housing Task Force report was to add density in the Village center, or walkable
areas.
Dan O'Connor said that traffic and parking could become an issue. Currently, for accessory apartments,
you are required to have on-site parking. Steve Krisky asked if any studies have looked at land values
and what this could potentially do to your neighbor's property value if you added an ADU.
Eva Thaddeus questioned if approval should depend on zoning district or the size of a particular
individual lot. Dan O'Connor said that a lot of properties are on old lots that pre-date zoning, so it would
not work for every lot in a particular district. The discussion continued about further requirements
including parking, setbacks, etc., and possibly limiting the number of ADU permits issued.
Geoff Haynes suggested that for the work session tentatively scheduled for March 2nd , the Planning
Board will want to focus on location, zoning districts and other restrictions such as parking that could be
built into potentially writing a law. Steve Krisky would like to discuss making the ADUs ADA compliant.
Eva Thaddeus suggested considering restrictions on regrading as that would be more disruptive. John
Ghegan asks about utilities and if the Village can handle the increased demands and Dan O'Connor said
that water and sewer would not be a problem. Dan O'Connor said that an applicant would have to get

4

separate meters from Con Ed, Verizon for a separate dwelling. The Planning Board agreed that they
had a good discussion and had many talking points to bring to the work session with the Village Board.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Draft Minutes January 17th, 2023

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of January 17th, 2023, as amended,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:36 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
**These minutes were approved, as amended on Tuesday, February 21 st , 2023 by a vote of 4-0 with RL,
JG, GH, SK voting yay and Eva Thaddeus being absent.**

5

RESOLUTION

Ella 1, LLC has applied for Site Plan Approval for the property located at 193-195 Grand Street in
the RB Two-Family Zoning District and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 68.17 Block 4 Lot 58 to convert the existing mixed-use building, a
nonconforming use, to an all-residential building with five apartments, another nonconforming
use;and
WHEREAS, this is a Site Plan for approval three new one-bedroom apartments; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA); and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 200 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was opened and closed on February 21 st , 2023, and
WHEREAS, at the January 9, 2023 Village Board meeting, the Village Board of Trustees
approved the request for a special permit to convert the existing mixed-use building, a nonconforming use, to an all-residential building with five apartments, another nonconforming use,
subject to certain conditions as stated on the special permit approval; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Site Plan application, as shown on Drawings
prepared by Gregory Caccioppoli, P.E., dated December 27th, 2022, and last revised on
February 15th , 2023, entitled "Existing Conditions Plan" Sheet E-1, "Proposed Site Plan," Sheet P1, "Porch Details," Sheet PD-1, "Utility Plan," Sheet U-1, "Standard Details," Sheet SD-1, "First
Floor Floor Plan," Sheet A-1, "Elevation Views," Sheet A-2 and "Proposed Renovation to Front of
Structure," Sheet 6, last revised on December 19th , 2022 other documents submitted in support of
the site plan application, be approved subject to the following conditions:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
That, all conditions specified in the Special Permit issued by the Village Board on January
9th, 2023 are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
That, the plans submitted with the building permit application substantially comply with the
site plan, architectural drawings and exterior renderings submitted with the application.
That conduits will be installed for future electric vehicle charging stations
That during improvement work, the building will be made ready for future solar installation.

Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and
void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the
expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus (Absent)
Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, by a vote
of4-0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on February 21 st , 2023

1
RESOLUTION
FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL
WHEREAS, The Matra Group, has applied to the Planning Board for Subdivision Plat Approval on a
property located at 1380 Albany Post Road in the Limited Office 0-1 Zoning and North End Gateway
Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.10 Block 2
Lots 14 and 15; and
WHEREAS, the subdivision being proposed is a consolidation subdivision of two existing lots into one
lot with a proposed three-story building consisting of 29 apartments; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act, this application is
considered an Unlisted Action under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA) and a
Negative Declaration was issued by the Village Board (Lead Agency) on March 7, 2022; and
WHEREAS, on August 15, 2022, Village Board issued a special permit for multi-family use subject to
certain conditions as stated on the special permit approval; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing before the Planning Board was opened for the subdivision application
on Tuesday September 27, 2022 and closed on Tuesday October 11, 2022; and
WHEREAS, on October 28th , 2022, the Planning Board approved a resolution granting preliminary
subdivision approval
WHEREAS, under section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving authority
for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and hereby approves the Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan, subject to the conditions specified in the resolution of amended site plan
approval; and
WHEREAS, a final consolidated subdivision plat, prepared by Joseph R. Link, L.S., New York State
Licensed Land Surveyor, dated February 7th , 2023 was submitted to the Planning Board for final
subdivision approval.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted
by The Matra Group for a two-lot consolidated subdivision of property located at 1380 Albany Post
Road, as shown on the final subdivision map prepared by Joseph R. Link, L.S., dated February 7th ,
2023 subject to the following conditions:

1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the final consolidation subdivision plat and consolidation deed be filed in the Office of the
Westchester County Clerk prior to a building permit being granted for the proposed building.
3. That, a final subdivision plan acceptable for filing in the Westchester County Clerk's Office and
addressing the above items be prepared. Said plat shall include all required notes,
certifications, etc. as required by applicable agencies.

