Conservation Advisory Council Minutes for 7/9/24

Recording Secretary: Sherry Horowitz
Present: Janet Monahan, Lance Amato, Halle Clarke, Eva Thaddeus, Rachel Bernstein, Sherry Horowitz,
Nora Nicholson
Minutes from the CAC meeting on June11,2024 were approved.
Discussion of Repair Cafe.
The Repair Cafe will take place on July 13 in the Community Room of the Municipal Building. Frank Balbi,
Head of the Croton DPW, has graciously agreed to order the supplies that will replace the ones that were
used during our first Repair Cafe in December.
At present we have coaches in the following categories: electrical/mechanical, sewing, jewelry and
window screens. 47 people have submitted registration forms. Janet is concerned because we've only
been able to recruit 3 electrical/mechanical repair coaches and those items tend to be the ones most
needed for repair. Registrations have been stopped, and the decision was made that folks who registered
would have priority over those who walk-in in terms of who gets serviced first if there are not enough
coaches to handle the repairs. During the course of the meeting, Kevin Geberth called to donate his
services, so now we will have 4 coaches.
Lance has agreed to contact another possible electrical/mechanical coach and someone at 3rd Universe
for possible repair of computer and digital screen issues. Going forward, we will avoid scheduling Repair
Cafes in June, July and August, as many folks are on vacation, making recruitment more difficult. At this
Repair Cafe, there will be a children's area. Lunch will be available for repair coaches and event
volunteers but there will be no snacks for attendees. There will be water available for all throughout the
event.
The room will be set up on Friday; CAC volunteers should arrive by 10:45 to set up. We need more
clipboards!

Gas-Powered Leaf Blowers.
There seems to be confusion as to how the law banning gas-powered leaf blowers is being enforced.
Janet shared a list of individual homeowners and organizations that have requested a waiver to that law.
Nora will check with Bryan Healy to learn the present enforcement protocol. Rachel volunteered to
research the NYS ban and other Westchester municipalities law to see whether bans are being extended.
Garden Club
The new garden at Dobbs Park has been planted and looks very lovely! Eva hasn't heard anything about
the strip at the Circle in front of the Lutheran Church but the plants that were rescued when
construction was underway are alive and blooming! There have been 2 Garden visits planned so far; the
first was on June 5th, and was well attended. The second visit is scheduled for July 16th at 7:00 PM at

the home of Deb Hayn and Phil Grunes. There is no limit on the number of people who can participate in
this visit!
Signs for pollinator gardens were discussed. These signs identify pollinator pathways/native
plants/pesticide free gardens. We can use the round signs, with the CAC logo sticker attached. Halle
questioned whether she can post the CAC email address: crotoncac44@gmail.com for people to use to
get information on the Croton Pollinator Pathway. Janet opined that money budgeted for the Repair
Cafe, that is not used for that event, may be used to purchase the Pollinator Pathway signs.

Dark Skies/Light Pollution.
Halle reported that there are new lights at Black Rock park; can we get more information about them?
Can they possibly be put on a timer?
Lance reported that he has been in touch with Charles Fulco, the Head of the Westchester chapter of the
Dark Sky Society, which is an international organization. Mr. Fulco has expressed interest in attending a
CAC meeting possibly in September, after our summer hiatus. He has also agreed to give a presentation
at our Green Living Series event scheduled for October 29th at the Croton Free Library, from 7-9:00 PM.
The Society has a wealth of information on many topics and learning materials that they can send us.
The Village can register as a member of the Dark Sky Society for $100. There is money in the budget to
cover CAC enrollment in professional organizations.

The New Tree Ordinance
Nora reports that the new Tree Ordinance, which the CAC Tree subcommittee reviewed, and wrote
recommendations for, will be discussed at an upcoming work session.
Next meeting is on September 10th. Enjoy the rest of the summer.

