Croton-on-Hudson FD – Fire Council
1900 hours, Tuesday, January 28, 2025 - Station #3 – Harmon Firehouse
Roll Call
Chiefs: ​

​

P. Dinkler (2081), Colombo (2082)

Wardens: ​

​

J. Streany, Kaplan, Skiba, Powers, D. Vlad, G. Tucci, Russell, Feminella, ​

​

​

Sarcone (quorum met)

​

Dept Members: ​

D. Dunn, E. Conti, J. Delaney

Village Officials: ​

Mayor Pugh

Other Guests:​ ​

None ​ ​

Meeting called to order at 19:01 by 2082
Pledge of Allegiance
Moment of Silence in honor of our departed members
2081 Chief P. Dinkler arrived 19:03
Special Order of Business: None

Approval of the Minutes of the Previous Meeting
●​ MOTION to accept November’s meeting minutes - Streany, Tucci - CARRIED
●​ MOTION to accept December’s meeting minutes - Streany, Tucci - CARRIED
●​ MOTION to accept the January 2nd Annual Council Meeting Minutes - Russell, Tucci CARRIED

Reading of Bills and Communications (to be acted upon as presented)
●​ Proposed meeting excuses: John Gilbert, T. Dinkler, J. Karpoff, C. Caterino

○​ MOTION to accept - Russell, Sarcone - CARRIED
●​ Harmon Engine:
○​ None
●​ WECO:
○​ New applications:
■​ Jonah Williams
■​ Jayden Hernandez
○​ The following members have been dropped from the rolls due to not meeting the
minimum company requirements to remain in good standing:
■​ Parker Stevens
■​ Grady Stevenson
■​ Ryan Lavelle
○​ MOTION to accept the above membership changes - J. Streany, G. Tucci CARRIED
●​ Fire Patrol:
○​ Letter from December stating that Kimberley Russell is on Medical Status while
undergoing treatment for a health issue. She anticipates being off Medical Status
by mid-to-late Feb. (Per 2081, no vote needed)
●​ Ladder:
○​ PAFs voted in:
■​ Charlotte Gilbert (application already with Frank)
■​ Daniel Markic
○​ MOTION to accept above requests for Ladder - Russell, Streany - CARRIED
●​ Chemical:
○​ School Leave form for Alexander Matthews
○​ MOTION to accept above requests for Chemical - Kaplan, Tucci - CARRIED
Invite to Dinner in honor of ex-Chief Ryan Hojnacki 22nd Feb, RSVP by the 10th
Invite from Millwood and Chappaqua 2/8 at 7pm Cabin Fever event - free to anyone

Reports of the Chiefs:
2081 – Chief of Department, P. Dinkler
●​ Thanks for coming out for calls. Things are going well. Several companies have had rigs
out, but people are still showing up.
Question: D. Vlad …. Can we get a checklist of what was fixed when rigs are returned to us
Yes

2082 - 1st Assistant Chief, C. Colombo:
●​ Sorry to have missed the swearing in ceremony. Went to Village Hall and was sworn in
separately
●​ Tomorrow 4-8 is the wake at Dorsey for Mr. Camp, full dress uniform 7pm
●​ Please be careful when parking on scenes
●​ Rope Team being formed - open to all members, not restricted to a specific company. D,
Altamura & B. Gallagher are heading it up.
●​ Northeast Squad Concepts has broken up but we hope to continue working with Josh
●​ Please take the online class for boat safety if you’re interested in participating in the
Marine Division - Sun 2/16 training class 9am
●​ Question - Harmon - ice machine still not working
○​ Colombo will relay the info
Mayor Pugh:
●​ Happy New year
●​ Recent presentation re: Quaker Bridge at Cortlandt Town Hall - 18 mo replacement target
still on target (from the date of the meeting)

2083: (absent)

Reports of Committees:
●​ Parades Committee

○​ Hal stepping down
○​ New Committee Chair needed
Big Bucks Committee (J. Streany, Chair)
●​ MOTION to have tickets printed, even though we haven’t received official approval from
the Village yet - D. Vlad, Feminella - CARRIED
●​ Discussion re: order of tickets drawn
○​ Official decision: First Prize drawn first, Second Prize drawn second
Summerfest 1st Sun June
●​ Explorer Post (J. Delaney, Chair)
○​ Meeting next Wed Feb 5th; hoping for better attendance than past meetings
○​ Captains should please remind their PAFs to attend the meeting
○​ Aiming to meet once a month moving forward
○​ Discussion re: whether Dept applications should be done at the same time as
PAF/youth applications
■​ Would need a Bylaw amendment for 13.3 to add a full application?
■​ MOTION that going forward, all applicants of any age will do full app
Streany, Tucci - CARRIED

●​ Bylaws Committee
○​ Will review all updated since 2020 to ensure that the existing Master Copy of the
Bylaws is accurate
○​ B. Powers will forward correspondence previously sent to the person
administering the posting of the Bylaws
○​ Question: status of the previous ByLaw updates that Josh was working on? unknown
●​ Membership Benefits Committee (T. Kaplan, Chair)

○​ No report
○​ Discussion re: Dept IDs for members
■​ ID machine is in the Radio Room
●​ Apparatus Replacement Committees
○​ TL44 – (T. Kaplan) delivery date pushed up a few months
○​ M12 – (see 2082 report)
○​ E119 – (J. Streany) agreed on major concepts to include; progress; upcoming
meeting with Seagate folks
○​ E120 – (J. Delaney) looking to downsize to a mini pumper; looking at a Seagrave;
going to look at Garrison’s new one in early Feb
■​ Response/comment to advocate for a full size pumper in order to properly
cover the Village and the contracted areas of Town of Cortlandt.
Discussion.
■​ Discussion re: possibility of keeping old 120 as a spare and get a new mini
pumper
●​ Fire Prevention Committee (T. Kaplan, Chair)
○​ No report
●​ Fund Drive (T. Dinkler, Chair)
○​ No report/not present
○​ Question: Have we moved forward with securing the 501c3? - unknown status
●​ LOSAP (T. Dinkler, Chair)
○​ No report/not present
●​ Audit Committee (B. Powers, Chair)
○​ No report
●​ Council Meeting Zoom/ AV equipment (Kaplan, Chair)

○​ Status? Still unpurchased
○​ Tom will work with Phil to get the Zoom Pro account

Unfinished Business:
●​ Discussion re: whether prospective officers identified by the Investigations Committee in
November as needing annual requirements before holding office actually completed them
before taking Office in January - yes
●​ Discussion re: planning annual compliance better this year, and having better
documentation of who completes what and when
●​ Reminder: Feb Council meeting is when we need to discuss who didn’t complete annual
requirements for 2024
○​ Status of entering 2024 Call Sheets? - still being worked on
■​ We had 494 calls last year
■​ Discussion re: whether members who aren’t on specialty teams can get
call credit for calls they can’t go on, and whether specialty calls count
toward the 5% minimum required
●​ Members are allowed to sign a sheet for calls they don’t go on, if
they are participating by loading the truck, or standing by at the
firehouse (fill out a standby sheet)
●​ LOSAP doesn’t facilitate separating the types of calls
●​ Budget questions, re: WECO boiler - yes, included/covered

New Business:
●​ Harmon: red chairs in the bay from Grand St FH need to go back to Grand St
●​ Harmon: all tables and chairs need to be put away after every event
●​ Council meetings will continue to be held at Harmon? - yes
●​ Fire Patrol: drivers who were formerly qualified to drive R18 need to requalify annually.
Please speak to our Engineer or Captain
●​ Discussion on having a dinner in honor of Josh’s 5 years as Chief
○​ G Tucci will speak to Josh to see if he would like a dinner
●​ Discussion re: someone is modifying members names in IAR to display
inaccurate/inappropriate names instead.
○​ Harmon requests that the incident be investigated and reported back upon at the
next meeting

●​ Weco introduced a discussion re: trying to develop future leaders within the Dept. We
need more people who are qualified to run for various positions so that we don’t need to
re-tread people every year.
●​ Additional discussion re: retention and recruitment
●​ MOTION to have COHFD sign up for the annual FASNY RecuitNY program in April
(26th or 27th) - Kaplan, Tucci - CARRIED
●​ Budget proposal distributed by P. Dinkler
○​ MOTION to pay 2024 Secretary and Treasurer fees - D. Vlad, Tucci - CARRIED
○​ Discussion on various line items
○​ MOTION for Phil to follow up with Adam Decker re: 501c3
○​ Note: budget is for calendar year, not fiscal year (starting June 1)

MOTION to adjourn - D. Vlad, Tucci - CARRIED
Meeting adjourned 9:44
Respectfully submitted,
Kimberley Russell, 576
Fire Council Recording Secretary

