Croton Conservation Advisory Council
Meeting Minutes
April 9, 2024
Present: Rachel Bernstein, Halle Clark (visitor), John Ealer, Sherry Horowitz, Steven Krisky
(Planning Board liaison) Janet Monahan (chair), Nora Nicolson (Village Board liaison), Brian Pugh
(Mayor, Village Board liaison), Francesca Slippen (CHHS student member), Eva Thaddeus
Unable to attend: Lance Amato, Terry McGarty, Ellen Siracusa (ex officio)

1. Approval of March Minutes.
2. Recording secretary – Rachel for April, Eva for May
3. Earth Day Updates
- 29 vendors signed up – more than any previous earth day, many first time attendees – be
sure to ask how they heard about it. Janet sent reminders about vendor guidelines – no
plastic, any tents need to be secured against wind, no cars on park, set up starts 7:30am
- NEED FOOD VENDORS – we only have one food vendor (Kinwich); (empanada truck
cancelled, Blue Pig, Baked by Susan, Organic Kitchen said no). Janet to ask Hudson Oven,
Rachel to ask Mexican Deli – others please ask around.
- signs – everyone take at least two from Janet’s house and post – on private property – in
highly visible locations, be sure to retrieve your signs and return to Janet’s house the day
after the event.
- flyers – everyone to help post – Rachel to send digitally
- Tree give away – if they don’t arrive in time distribute on rain date May 4
- bring newspapers and plastic bags and buckets to hold and wrap for distribution
-Willa Kay and Francesca Slippen to make poster – Make a Pledge, Get a Tree – with
sample pledges, and with info on the 4 varieties (size at maturity, sun/shade, wet/dry)
( Eva to supply info)
- Eva to make one page instruction sheet for people to photograph with their phone –
planting and care instructions for each variety
- 2 trees per household, if you want more return at 3:30 to see what is left
- CAC will have 5 tables – Garden Club (Habitat Garden, Croton Flower contest) and Tree
Give away, Composting/Recycling/Croton Point/Repair Café, CLEAN, Dark Skies/Birds/Trails –
with posters for all (Francesca can get extra large prints made at CHHS)
- Croton flower contest – John to set up google form for voting on these choices – daffodils,
black-eyed susans, violets, moss phlox, sunflowers.

- Staffing – Janet will be there the whole time, John will be there most of the time, Steve K
to make a schedule so all hours are covered.
4. Tree Committee – Presentation to Village Board – Eva and Janet presented, expect a response
in early June. Discussion about relative benefits of arborist vs. urban forester, and about
times they will be needed. List of recommended trees and prohibited trees needed.

5. Dark Skies/Light Pollution – Janet and Lance will talk, meet with Francesca and committee,
plan green living program for the fall

6. CLEAN - Senasqua clean up was biggest turnout ever (~30 volunteers); next up is Duck Pond
on June 1. Adoption of 9A on Board agenda 4/10, Janet and John will attend.

7. Garden Club – Plaques for Habitat Garden participants have been designed; will have a
poster for Earth Day table, and QR code to webpage explaining how your garden can qualify
(no pesticides, no leaf blowers, native plants where possible); Dobbs flagpole needs planting;
Laemmel garden needs mulch and weeding; Cleveland strip plants to be moved before DPW
work starts – Steve to talk with project lead about timing and report to Eva.

8. Trails – Janet attended Invasives seminar – advised to start small, focus on one species at a
time. glossy buckthorn and Japanese barberry are two species they suggest to start with. a
recording is available from the workshop. Trails has a work session on Saturday 4/13,
building crossing over muddy/wet section of trail.

9. Other – Steve K asks if someone can attend a presentation at the Yacht Club on April 19th
about transmission line.

Submitted by Rachel Bernstein

