Croton Fire Department – Fire Council Meeting – June 24, 2025
Roll Call: P. Dinkler, C. Colombo, C. Caterino,
Wardens: Skiba, Streany, Powers, Tucci, Vlad, Dunn, Gilbert
Excused: Feminella, Sarcone, Kaplan, Karpoff
Mayor Pugh
The meeting opened at 7:04 PM with the Pledge to the Flag, followed by a moment of silence for
deceased members.
Motion Tucci, Dunn, to approve the April and May Council minutes, carried.
Bills and Communications:
An application from Hook and Ladder was received requesting active membership for Christen Garone.
Motion, Skiba, Tucci, to accept membership request, carried.
Chiefs Report – Chief Dinkler thanked members for responding to alarms. He mentioned that the
weather has been very hot and all members should stay hydrated.
It was difÏcult to get to the Half Moon Bay alarm due to the ongoing road work in the Village, and
members should be aware of the overnight work that is ongoing.
Asst. Chief Colombo reported that Harmon has no ice. Will request grass to be cut at Harmon
firehouse, no update on work to be done on Washington ramp/parking area, elevator at Grand St. is
waiting for parts for repair.
Asst. Chief Caterino reminded everyone to stay hydrated, working on getÝng Croton Point Park for
inspection. Discussion on the budget and the caterer for inspection.
Committee Reports:
Apparatus Committee. Warden Streany reports that Washington is reviewing the drawing, and the next
step is final specifications for submittal. Discussion on the funding process with the Mayor.
John Delaney reports Harmon continues to look at different apparatus and will have a demo unit at
quarters soon. Discussion on full-size pumper needed for the Village as we are getÝng more
apartments.
Chief Dinkler reports the EMS building project is moving and is expected to be completed in September.
Parade Committee discussion on the County convention. Engine 118 would like to attend. Harmon and
Patrol are in favor of attending Washington is not in favor of the department attending
Motion Vlad, Powers, for the department to attend the County convention parade, carried.

LOSAP Committee, discussion on reestablishing a full committee, currently, Warden Skiba is the only
one who has participated on an ongoing basis. Discussion on the timeliness of reports and keeping
track of yearly credits for members. 2024 members' credits/calls were completed, and the LOSAP
report has been filed. Department staff is working on the 2025 numbers. Discussion on ESO, Penflex,
and the inability to currently run accurate reports for use. Mentioned again that a committee needs to
be established. Fire Council is looking for a committee Chairperson
Unfinished Business:
Discussion on Fire Council for a recording secretary.
Motion, Vlad, Powers, to nominate John Delaney for the position of Fire Council secretary, carried.
Asst Chief Colombo thanks members for the support he and his family received for the recent passing
of his Father.
New Business
Discussion on meeting with Municipal Marketing regarding the status of our contract and the progress
of the Croton Fire Department's 501 (C status.
It appears we will not have a 2025 direct mail fund drive, which means it two years without donations.
Treasurers Report
Chief/Treasurer reports the Council has received the Town of Cortlandt contractual money for the
current period. Discussion held.
Motion: Vlad, Powers to split the money six ways for the Council to have funds available, carried
Motion Tucci, Dunn to adjourn meeting, carried.
Meeting adjourned 8:47 PM

Respectfully submitted,

Joseph P Streany
Secretary Pro-temp

