Croton-on-Hudson Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee
January 2025 Meeting Minutes
​
Date: Jan 16, 20245– 7:30-9:00pm​
Present: Kevin Scott, Matt Schuerman, Erik Ferguson, Dan Castner, Amos Bloomberg, Neal Haber
(BOE), Len Simon (ex officio), Mayor Brian Pugh (ex officio), Scott Marsh (DPW)
1.​ November meeting minutes accepted
2.​ DPW Updates (Scott)
●​ Benedict circle - islands, curbing, etc. complete
●​ Finishing touches - pavers, temp striping, cross-walks, all-new signage, etc.
coming in Spring:
●​ Parking striping and no-parking signage at select spots
●​ “Shark tooth” indicators as entering the circle
●​ Additionally - stop and crosswalk pending for Whelan
●​ Garden club to tend to the island center(s) - start in Spring
●​ Stakeholder Mgmt - Fielding questions/concerns from select community
members - educating them on the purpose and benefits
●​ Paving next - once road temperatures rise in Spring
●​ All work executed w/ in-house DPW resources and minimal material cost (~$35K)
●​ Other projects:
●​ EMS building (next to fire station) construction still underway
●​ New basin at Oneida and Penfield (to address water pooling)
●​ Upper Village / dummy light planter placement
●​ Likely pushed in for winter – plowing, etc. Will be replanted and placement
revised in Spring
3.​ Project MOVER
●​ Proposed station placement https://www.google.com/maps/d/viewer?mid=1Hp6fGUdaePwttFU5Wn3K4CZwH8atxd0&
ll=41.20270953270022%2C-73.88161907128907&z=16
●​ Tier 1 proposed locations:
●​ Train station
●​ Library
●​ Municipal Building
●​ Vassallo
●​ Some concern w/ visibility (if placed w/in park itself vs. closer to
street)
●​ Pro: accessibility for Beekman neighborhood
●​ Maple Commons (Pocket Park)
●​ Riverside/Benedict
●​ Phase/Tier 2 locations
●​ Senasqua (and/or Croton Landing)
●​ Some concerns about the reaction to more e-bike traffic,
recreation vs. commuting
●​ Possible 8th location
●​ Duck Pond
●​ Croton Point (County property)
●​ Sunset Park Dr

●​ Circle
●​ ShopRite plaza
●​ Best possible as 7th location
●​ Other potential locations:
●​ Silver Lake lot
●​ Discussion
●​ Decision on station placement expected by March for Shared Mobility
●​ Drop Mobility e-bikes (stats in latest deck from SM)
●​ Target go-live by June / Summer Fest
●​ ACTION: get list of Ossining location for Scott to view
placement/approach
4.​ Earth Day
●​ Saturday, May 3rd at 11AM at Senasqua Park (Rain date: May 10)
●​ Ideas:
●​ Partner with other groups, etc. - e.g., Croton100,
●​ Community bike ride
●​ Potential opportunity to demo the e-bike share, etc.
●​ Possible fun-run (in partnership with Croton Running)
●​ BOE - connect w/ PVC and high school groups
●​ Safety demos
●​ Conscript student volunteers
●​ Repair Café
●​ Revisit in more detail during our February meeting - ideas/planning
●​ ACTION: Follow-up - sync w/ Neal on engaging the schools

Extra - from Mayor’s Newsletter (1/25/25)
Gotwald Circle Upgrades Near Completion

The Village of Croton-on-Hudson recently completed a safety enhancement project at Gotwald
Circle. These traffic calming measures were developed in consultation with the Bicycle Pedestrian
Committee.
This busy intersection, where Benedict Boulevard, Whelan Avenue, Truesdale Drive, and
Cleveland Drive converge, has received significant upgrades. New curbing has been installed,
narrowing the driving lanes to create more space for cyclists and pedestrians. Additionally, the
project included the installation of new ADA-compliant ramps and sidewalks, improving
accessibility for all residents.
Funding for these improvements was provided by New York State through the Consolidated Local
Street and Highway Improvement Program (CHIPS).
Once warmer weather arrives, the final phase of the project will begin. The area will be restriped,
and the Croton Garden Club will implement their thoughtfully designed planting plan to enhance
the visual appeal of the intersection.
Furthermore, Cleveland Drive is scheduled for repaving later this year. This crucial roadwork will
be funded through a federal grant awarded to the Village.
Thank you to the community for their patience and understanding during the construction phase of
this important safety improvement project and to our Department of Public Works team, which
completed the project in-house, minimizing construction costs and saving taxpayer dollars.
These enhancements will significantly improve the safety and accessibility of Gotwald Circle for all
residents and visitors.

