Planning Board Meeting Minutes
July 15, 2025
8:00 p.m.

[APPROVED]

PRESENT:    Rob Luntz
            John Ghegan
            Geoffrey Haynes (Absent)
            Steve Krisky
            Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
              Daniel Pozin, Village Attorney
              Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison

ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of July 15, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2. NEW BUSINESS

   a) Nikitopoulos, John - 14 Park Trail (68.17-1-21) - Accessory Apartment Application

John Nikitopoulos was present in support of the application. The applicant reports that he would like to convert the first floor of his home to an accessory apartment for a family member. The existing floor plan is 6.5% more than the required maximum 800 square feet. The house will go from being a five-bedroom house to a four-bedroom house. Dan O'Connor clarified that the accessory apartment would need either a separate entrance, or a common entrance, and this property, with a common entrance, falls within the guidelines. It was noted that there is ample parking for multiple cars, so parking will not be an issue. Eva Thaddeus noted that there is only one closet in the area that is to be the accessory apartment.

Chairman Luntz read the resolution, including conditions.

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the application for an accessory apartment at 14 Park Trail, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 4 - 0, with Geoff Haynes being absent.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes 7/1/2025

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of July 1st, 2025, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried, 4 - 0, with Geoff Haynes being absent.

4. ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, Chairman Luntz made a motion to adjourn the meeting and the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:09 p.m.

**Minutes approved with a motion by Rob Luntz, seconded by Steve Krisky and carried by a vote of 3 - 0, with Eva Thaddeus being absent and Geoff Haynes abstaining on August 5, 2025**

---

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, on June 11, 2025, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, considered the application from John Nikitopoulos for an accessory apartment permit on the property located at 14 Park Trail and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 68.17 Block 1 Lot 21; and

WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the said accessory apartment; and

WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and

WHEREAS, John Nikitopoulos is the owner and primary occupant of the single-family dwelling in which the accessory apartment is proposed; and

WHEREAS, the accessory apartment meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and

WHEREAS, the accessory apartment of 852 +/- square feet and is 6.5% more than the required maximum 800 square feet, but only 35% of the floor area.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by John Nikitopoulos for the accessory apartment as shown on the floor plans prepared for this application, submitted June 11, 2025, and subject to Section 230-41 of the Village Code and the following conditions:

1. Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory apartment or accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the Building Department confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and that they are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and accessory cottages and will remain in compliance. Such notice shall be provided within 90 days of the change of ownership. Failure to timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a new application.

2. That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit and Certificate of Occupancy for the accessory apartment.

The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes (Absent)
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the application from John Nikitopoulos for an accessory apartment at 14 Park Trail, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 4 - 0, with Geoff Haynes being absent.
