Planning Board Meeting Minutes
February 4, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Dan Pozin, Village Attorney
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Nora M Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 4, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS:
a)

Cunningham, David & Sarah, 95 Olcott Ave. (79.09-1-3) -Application for Accessory
Apartment

Homeowner David Cunningham was present in support of the application. When the applicant
purchased his home, it had a certificate of occupancy for the existing finished basement/home office. In
the basement, there is also a bathroom, kitchen and living room, so the applicant is here today to
legalize the space as an accessory apartment.
Chairman Luntz went over the criteria for an accessory apartment and noted that the accessory
apartment space is less than 40% of habitable floor area, the square footage is within the approved
guidelines, there is adequate parking, and a separate entrance, not visible from the street. The applicant
stated that there is no way to access the apartment from the primary residence. The applicant stated
that he understood the requirements regarding change of ownership, for when he sells the home. The
boiler is in the unfinished section of the basement.
The applicant does not plan to rent the apartment immediately. Steve Krisky asked the applicant if he
would be looking to rent it out as a short-term rental, and the applicant stated that he is not looking to
rent it out as a short-term rental, and it may be his son who rents the apartment in the future.
Geoff Haynes made motion to approve the application for an accessory apartment at 95 Olcott Avenue,
with the condition stated on the resolution, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.
b)

WBP Development, LLC, 1 Croton Point Ave.I "Lot A" (79.17-1-5,4 & 3) -Application for
Site Plan Approval for five-story building with 100 dwelling units

Village Attorney, Dan Pozin was first to speak and presented an explanation as to what the Planning
Board's authority is on the site plan, now that the Village Board has issued a special permit to WBP
Development. According to Dan Pozin, the Board of Trustees, in connection with their special permit
review determined that the project was zoning compliant, consistent with the Village's local waterfront
revitalization program (LWRP), and would not have negative impact under SEQRA (State Environmental
Quality Review Act). The Village Board's special permit did include a list of items reserved for Planning

1

Board review including, the convenience of the public in general, accessibility to fire and police
protection, safety with traffic and pedestrians.
Dan Pozin stated that the Planning Board already gave a legally mandated recommendation regarding
this project to the Board of Trustees in a memo dated August 8, 2024 and the Board of Trustees went
through items in regards to SEQRA including provisions for public amenities, probable future traffic,
whether the proposed use is consistent with the Village Master Plan, and others. The Village Board
issued approval for a five-story, 100-unit building, and the Planning Board cannot vary on that.
The Planning Board will be looking at site plan issues and Village Code with regards to, but not limited
to, landscaping, lighting, signs, and others that are included in the attached memo.
Attorney Dan Pozin concluded by acknowledging that there are certain aspects of this project that are of
concern to the public, but those issues have already been determined by Village Board of Trustees.
John Bainlardi of WPB Development, Rich Williams of lnsite Engineering and Michael Bevivino of AKRF,
Inc. were present in support of the application.
John Bainlardi summarized that the application was referred by the Board of Trustees as part of a
special permit process. John Bainlardi stated that the application is for a 100-unit, (46 one-bedroom, 52
two-bedroom homes) multi-family, five-story building with requisite parking, some parking spaces below
grade and some outside. The property is proposed on Croton Point Avenue, consisting of three tax
parcels, two owned by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and one owned separately, that WPB
Development is in contract to purchase. The proposed project's 100 residential units are envisioned to
be 100% affordable condominiums, selling at prices based on 80% median income, up to 100% AMI
(area median income). Funding sources are expected to be New York State's Affordable
Homeownership Opportunities Program as well as Westchester County New Home Land Acquisition
Program and Westchester County's Housing Implementation Fund. The private parcel is currently
improved with an office building which will be demolished to make way for the new building.
John Bainlardi continued that the building will be four-stories in some locations, five-stories in others.
with amenities including level two electric vehicle charging, bike storage room, community room, fitness
center, and others.
Sustainable building design features include full electrification, solar readiness, high efficiency HVAC
equipment, appliances, low-flow water fixtures and be built to some level of a green building standard.
John Bainlardi showed a rendering of a brick building that is currently proposed, and stated that the
applicants are looking for direction from the Planning Board as to finishes for the building. There is also
a second rendering that is more contemporary, and the applicants, despite wanting to control cost, want
a building that they are proud of, and they recognize that this building will be a focal point.
Rich Williams of lnsite Engineering spoke next and stated that the site is 1.75 acres in the Light
Industrial Zone, with Transit Oriented Development Zone overlap. The front of the building is on Croton
Point Ave. and currently there is a curb cut and a traffic light which will both be utilized. Rich Williams
pointed out another driveway, toward the northern border of the site which is for MTA access and could
be used as another access area.
Rich Williams went on to talk about the plans for utilities, including water, sewer and stormwater that are
explained in the support documents that were provided by lnsite Engineering, and are available online.
Rob Luntz asked for clarification as to water quality treatment on site and Rich Williams stated that the
first thing that they looked at was the impervious area and this project will have a decrease in impervious
area by about a tenth of an acre by adding landscaping, and this will mean less runoff volume. Right
now, there is nothing to catch floatables/trash and the applicants are proposing new drainage structures
to capture runoff and discharge into hydrodynamic separators to create a swirling action to catch debris

2

so that mush of the sediment is removed. These hydrodynamic separators get regular treatment, and
like septic tank maintenance, are pumped out routinely.
Rich Williams said that in the water report to presented to the Village, the maximum daily flow is just
under 17000 gallons per day. The applicants said with respect to water, they are considering two
different options, the first is a potential connection to the Wayne Street system, which they believe is the
better solution for the Village, and the second option would be to accommodate the water needs on site
by providing water storage tanks, which would be underground and booster pumps, which would be
inside the building in mechanical spaces.
Rich Williams then again went over the alternative access plan that was based on a discussion with the
Village Board and a concern about pedestrian safety at the first right turn in to the building site is not
controlled, as there is no sidewalk or crosswalk. The alternative access plan also makes use of the curb
cut and traffic light, but then use the northern portion of the existing MTA driveway as a right turn in to
the property. Using this alternative access plan would require losing the proposed pocket park on the
north side of the building, but a new landscaping would be put in place where the original right turn in
was proposed. Either of the two proposed access plans will work and school buses will be able to enter
the property to pick up and drop off children on site either way, as John Bainlardi said that the applicants
spoke with the school district and it is their preference for the children to not need to leave the property
for the school busses.
John Bainlardi also mentioned a piece of property behind the proposed building that the Village leased
from the Department of Transportation that had some parking spaces that are no longer being utilized,
and that the DOP put up some Jersey barriers to prevent access to. The applicants plan to reach out to
the DOT and request that the department of transportation allow the applicants to work with the Village
to restore the area to green space.
Rob Luntz stated that he agrees with the Village Board and that he feels that the alternative access plan
is an improvement. Rob Luntz asked if the applicants spoke with the Croton-on-Hudson Fire
Department and the applicants responded that they had spoken with the Croton Fire Department, along
with Dan O'Connor and Bryan Healy and they went through the turns on the property and were confident
that the fire department vehicles could access the property. The applicant did note that the Fire Chief
had several other comments which were incorporated into a memo and became conditions of the special
permit that was issued. John Bainlardi stated that the fire department, in coordination with the building
department will be kept informed throughout the construction process and whatever their needs are, the
applicant will comply with the fire department's requirements. The applicant also noted that the fire
department was satisfied that they could handle a five-story building.
Regarding traffic, the applicant stated that for the special permit application, they went through SEQRA
review and studied potential impacts from an environmental standpoint and otherwise and it was
determined that the proposal will not have an adverse impact on traffic, but there should be some
coordination with the Department of Transportation to coordinate traffic signal timings. The applicant
also suggested that anyone who was interested could read the negative declaration.
Geoff Haynes asked several follow up questions, firstly about stormwater outfall that goes into the
Village water system. Dan O'Connor answered that it goes down Veteran's Plaza and eventually into
the bay.
Geoff Haynes next asked about the potential for traffic backup if the first right hand turn into the site is
eliminated, meaning that vehicles would have to go to the traffic light in the front of the building, and this
could cause a delay. John Bainlardi said that if there is going to be a traffic impact, it will be for vehicles
inside the site, so someone may have to wait a little longer to get out, and in the worst-case scenario,
John Bainlardi thinks the wait time will be seconds. Geoff Haynes also mentioned the need to
coordinate traffic signal timings, being that one traffic signal belongs to the Village of Croton and the
other two signals are for the Department of Transportation.

3

Geoff Haynes mentioned the underground parking, asking if the fire department would have adequate
clearance to get down there, and the applicant replied that yes, they would. John Bainlardi continued
that right now, the property is relatively flat, but there is a slight rise to the property, so the driveway on
the eastern side will be sloped. There will be a retaining wall along the eastern boundary line that starts
at zero and goes to 12 feet, the ramp that goes down underneath the building only goes down half a
story as the tail of the building is half a story up. Geoff Haynes asked if tenants in the apartment building
would have assigned parking spaces and the applicant replied that that had not been determined yet,
and Geoff Haynes noted that if you have a second car, you may not necessarily have a second parking
spot. The applicant said that they may possibly have to purchase a parking pass from the Village to park
across the street in the train station parking lot.
Geoff Haynes asked if there was going to be a building superintendent on site and John Bainlardi
answered that there likely will be a superintendent, but not necessarily one who lives on site.
Geoff Haynes asked if there was progress on the easement for the water line with the property owner on
Wayne Street and John Bainlardi answered that they are working on it and that there is engagement.
The homeowner on Wayne Street asked for additional information on zoning regulations.
Geoff Haynes asked about how the project came to be 100% affordable condominiums, as that is not
what was initially asked for when the Village put out a request for proposals for this property and John
Bainlardi again answered and said that first, the Village Board liked the idea of affordable home
ownership, as opposed to rental, and secondly, the funding is available from the state. John Bainlardi
said that he had worked on both, rentals, and condos. The applicants met with folks from the state on
the proposed site and gave them a tour, and the state is aware that the applicants have received a
special permit. The applicants next step is to work with structural engineers, finish the building designs,
work with the Village Board and Planning Board and the Department of Health, and they are now in a
place when they can go forward with funding applications, but they do not see any hurdles. Geoff
Haynes asked if they did not get the approval, would any changes need to be made to the plans as they
are now, but John Bainlardi does not think that there would need to be major changes.
Next, Geoff Haynes asked who would be eligible to live in these condominiums and John Bainlardi said
that he would get back to the Planning Board as to how the lottery would work, but applicants would
have to meet the eligibility requirements. John Bainlardi gave examples as to who may want to live here
including older Croton residents who sell their home, but want to stay in Croton, maybe people who work
here but have not been able to live here. There will be a marketing plan that will have to be approved by
the State.
Lastly, Geoff Haynes asked about a community amenity and John Bainlardi said that there will be
amenities on site for residents, but he is not yet sure what the amenity for the community will be,
possibly a monetary amount to fund something elsewhere in the Village, John Bainlardi said that they
will take direction from the Village on this.
John Bainlardi said that along with the funding, there will be regulatory agreements with Westchester
County, typically 30-50 years of affordable housing, with a restrictive covenant on the property. One of
the funding sources that was mentioned is the new home land acquisition funding that is specifically
awarded to purchase the land upon which affordable housing is built, and other funding sources that are
to be used for infrastructure improvements.
Steve Krisky asked about chargers for electric vehicles and John Bainlardi said that there will be no
fewer than five dual chargers, and that Westchester County agencies have different requirements, so the
applicants will look at what makes sense in terms of charging stations. Steve Krisky believes that 10
electric vehicle charging stations, in the long run, seems wholly inadequate. John Bainlardi says no one
knows what the future technology will be and that there will be a Board in place for the tenants and that
the Board may, in the future, decide to put in more charging stations. Steve Krisky said that it would be
easier during construction to put in more electric charging stations as it will be more expensive to tear up
the parking lot in the future to do it.

4

Steve Krisky then asked about the rooftop terrace and Michael Bevivino of AKRF, Inc. said that there will
be some outdoor furniture, maybe a covered, shaded area, with the primary function to be to look out
over the water. They do not think there will be barbeques on the rooftop terrace.
Steve Krisky asked about some kind of entry way monument or a piece of art in front of the building and
John Bainlardi said that on other projects, they have worked with local artists to create something like
that, and that they would like to do something similar here in Croton. John Bainlardi said that in terms of
lighting, they will be Dark Skies compliant, and that there is a photometric plan.
Steve Krisky said that the area of unused space behind the building with the Jersey barriers could be an
opportunity to do something interesting, maybe a dog park and mentioned a dog park downtown, on the
west side, that was a good use of a small space.
Eva Thaddeus asked if the developer would consider a toddler play area and John Bainlardi stated that
they typically, in family developments, do some sort of children's play area and that there may be
something in the community room inside the building, and that they will be looking for opportunities to do
things like this. Eva Thaddeus also agreed with the idea of sacrificing the pocket park for the second
access point, citing that this would be particularly better for school busses.
John Ghegan asked about the height of this five-story building and was told that it is 58-feet from grade
at the top of the building, 58-feet from the top of the four-story area in the front of the building, and that
does not include the bulkhead, and the bulkhead would be another 12-14 feet.
John Ghegan noted that the applicants mention fire and police access, but nowhere is EMS mentioned,
and John Ghegan thinks that EMS should be consulted and added to the wording, and it needs to be
confirmed that the elevators are stretcher compliant.
Rob Luntz stated that, in looking at the two renderings of the proposed building, while he appreciates the
first, all brick look, the scale and the breakup of the massing of the second rendering with the mix of
materials is more dynamic and would encourage this version. Steve Krisky agreed, Geoff Haynes
deferred to Rob Luntz's expertise. Eva Thaddeus said that she preferred the brick building. John
Bainlardi stated if the second rendering is the direction that the Planning Board would like to take, they
can start to further develop with color schemes, material samples and putting boards together.
Rob Luntz opened the meeting to comments from the public, noting that they will have three minutes to
speak, as per the Planning Board's rules and regulations.
Ed Riely of 110 Truesdale Drive was the first to speak and noted that the Planning Board did not
question the Village attorney as to what their powers are. Ed Riely questioned if the Planning Board had
substantial powers to limit the height of the building in this proposal, or the number of units or if this is
just about where to put flower pots, then this is a done deal and it is a political deal. Ed Riely believes
that the Planning Board should spend a lot of time on this building. Ed Riely then read a prepared
statement that is included in these minutes.
Michael Mamone of 19 Young Avenue was next to speak and first stated that he agrees with everything
that Ed Riely just stated. Michael Mamone is concerned about parking and asked if a tenant of the
proposed building has one extra car, where will it park? Michael Mamone noted that the applicant
suggested that a tenant would have the option to purchase parking in the commuter parking lot, but that
there was no guarantee that there will be a space available there. Michael Mamone believes that in
today's world every unit will have two cars and he is concerned that the overflow will be parking on
Benedict Boulevard, or his street, Young Avenue. Michael Mamone asked the Planning Board if they
had some power here, to use that power. Michael Mamone asked when will limits be put on affordable
housing as that affordable housing to him means that someone else is paying the bill and believes that
affordable housing will be subsidized by Village taxpayers. Michael Mamone said that the developers
are trying to make as much money as they can and would like the Planning Board's protection.

5

Susan Skrelja of 56 Truesdale Drive read a prepared statement expressing her opposition to this project
which is attached to these minutes.
Gary Eisinger of 210 Cleveland Drive also read a prepared statement that is attached to these minutes
and provided handouts to illustrate his point that the viewshed of the residents on Wayne Street will be
affected.
Next to speak was Phyllis Morrow of 61 Nordica Drive who believes that this site should never become a
residential building and that the property is valuable and should be leased, and should not have been
sold. Phyllis Morrow worries what would happen if there was a water main break on Wayne Street.
Phyllis Morrow believes that traffic will be a problem and she cares about who lives here and pays taxes
here.
Michael Mamone spoke again and said that we need is the bottom-line dollars and cents. Michael
Mamone, as a businessman, is concerned that the impact of this project on the Village residents will be
enormous.
Rob Luntz spoke again and reiterated what Village Attorney Dan Pozin said that the Planning Board has
made a recommendation to the Village Board about this project and the Village Board has granted a
special permit, and that special permit has certain aspects to it which are non-negotiable, and yes, it is a
done deal in terms of the number of units and in terms of the number of stories, so whether or not the
Planning Board agrees with the conditions, the Planning Board cannot negotiate these issues as it has
been decided by the Village Board. Rob Luntz continued that the Planning Board is not an elected body
and are independent of the Village Board and that the Planning Board does have the power to make
recommendations, review site plans.
Susan Skrelja asked the Planning Board if they could ask for a balloon test to be done and Rob Luntz
said that yes, the Planning Board can and will ask for the balloon test to be done.
Eva Thaddeus read out Section II of the Board of Trustees & Planning Board Authority written by Village
Attorney Dan Pozin. The memo is attached to these minutes.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes January 21, 2025

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of January 21 st , 2025, seconded by
Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with John Ghegan and Eva Thaddeus abstaining as they
were absent on January 21, 2025, and the meeting adjourned at 10:1 0 p.m.

4.

ADJOURNMENT

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended on March 4th , 2025, with a motion by Geoff Haynes, seconded
by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 5 - 0***

6

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on February 4th , 2025, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from David & Sarah Cunningham for an accessory apartment permit at the
property located at 95 Olcott Avenue and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot 3;
and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application, floor plans and survey),
for the said accessory apartment; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, David & Sarah Cunningham are the owners and primary occupant of the single-family
dwelling in which the accessory apartment is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment has a separate entrance not visible from the street, as is required;
and
WHEREAS, three existing off-street parking spaces are available, therefore no separate parking
assessment is required; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment of 608 +/- square feet is less than the required maximum 800 square
feet or 40% of the habitable floor area of the dwelling in which it is contained, whichever is less and more
than the minimum of 300 square feet.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
David & Sarah Cunningham for the accessory apartment as shown on the floor plans prepared for this
application, submitted January 14, 2025, and subject to Section 230-41 of the Village Code and the
following condition:
1.

Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment or accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the Building
Department confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and that they
are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and accessory cottages and will
remain in compliance. Such notice shall be provided within 90 days of the change of
ownership. Failure to timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a new application:
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on February 4th , 2025.

,

BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND PLANNING BOARD AUTHORITY

SPECIAL PERMIT AND SITE PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
1 Croton Point Avenue - TOD Multifamily Project
January 30, 2025
I. Board of Trustees Authority

A. Issues reserved to Board of Trustees for Special Permit review (Village Code§ 230-57)
1.

Whether proposed use is permitted by special permit.

2.

Municipal costs, services and prospective revenues from proposed use.

3.

Whether proposed use is consistent with Village Master Plan.

4.

Probable future traffic and access in the vicinity of the proposed use.

5.

Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) consistency with Village Code.

6.

Compliance with NYS or federal regulations.

7.

SEQRA.

8.

Consistency with LWRP.

9.

Provision of a public amenity.

B. Issues reserved to Board of Trustees subject to referral to Planning Board (Village Code§
230-58). 1

1

1.

Public health, safety and welfare and the comfort and convenience of the public in
general and of residents of the immediate neighborhood.

2.

Accessibility to fire and police protection.

3.

Compatibility of location, size and character of proposed use with the orderly
development of its zoning district and that of adjacent properties.

4.

Safety, convenience and congruity with normal traffic and pedestrian and
vehicular traffic from proposed use, taking into account location and size of
proposed use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or conducted in
connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.

Issues addressed in the August 8, 2024, Planning Board memo to the Board of Trustees.
1

4915-5948-0850, v. 9

5.

Compatibility of location and height of buildings, location, nature and height of
walls and fences and nature and extent of landscaping with adjacent land and
buildings and their appropriate development.

6.

Preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.

C. Issues addressed by Board of Trustees in Special Permit Resolution No. 260-2024.
I.

Accessibility of the structure for fire and police protection.

2.

Compatibility of the location, size and character of proposed use with orderly
development and that of adjacent properties in conformity with the zoning district
applicable to such properties.

3.

Whether location of Project meets requirements of Zoning Code regarding Transit
Oriented multi-family development.

4.

Whether the size and character of the building is appropriate and in conformity
with the Zoning District (ie. numbers of floors and units).

5.

The safety, convenience and congruity with the normal traffic of the
neighborhood and access to the site for vehicles and school buses.

6.

Whether visual impacts of the location and height of the building are compatible
with adjacent land and buildings.

7.

Preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.

II. Planning Board Authority

A. Issues reserved to the Planning Board by the Special Permit Resolution No. 260-2024.
1.

Architectural and aesthetic design of the Project.

2.

Final details on access.

3.

Applicant's coordination with the NYSDOT on signal timing adjustments on
Croton Point Avenue per traffic study.

4.

Review and final approval of landscaping plans.

5.

Layout of proposed water and sewer systems and fire flow to Property.

2
4915-5948-0850, V. 9

B. Issues for Planning Board review under Village Code § 230-70 and the Supplementary
Regulations of Article VII to the extent applicable but not addressed under Special Permit
review and approval.
I.

Screening and landscaping

2.

Lighting.

3.

Signs.

4.

Solar energy system (Tier 1).

5.

Geothermal energy system.

6.

BESS.

7.

Performance standards for objectionable elements ie. dust, noise, and vibration
during construction, odors and glare from lighting.

8.

Drainage system and layout.

9.

Loading area.

10.

Water supply and sewage disposal facilities.

11.

Fire lanes, emergency zones and fire hydrants.

12.

Pedestrian access and circulation on site and on adjacent streets.

13.

Quality of architectural features.

14.

Windows and doors.

15.

Roof form.

16.

Features and details.

17.

Wall materials.

18.

Diversity of design.

19.

Overly repetitive use of the architectural features.

20.

Overly similar treatment of building elevations.

21.

Excessive identical repetition of architectural style or treatment.

3
4915-5948-0850, V. 9

To: Karen Stapleton, Planning Board Secretary, Department of Engineering
Robert Luntz, Chairman, Croton Planning Board
Geoff Haynes, Member, Croton Planning Board
John Ghegan, Member, Croton Planning Board
Steven Krisky, Member, Croton Planning Board
Eva Thaddeus, Member, Croton Planning Board
From: Ed Riely
Date: February 4, 2025
Re: Developers' Proposals for Parking Lot A, Croton Point Avenue
Dear Members:
Politics is driving Transit District Housing Proposals and the approval of oversized
developments in the Village of Croton, State Politics and Local Politics. It's your job to trim
proposed projects back to make them Croton appropriate. It was YOUR recommendation to
the Village Board that the Lot A Project be REDUCED to 80 or better 60 Units to bring it into
sync with the rest of the area. Please stick to your recommendation, it was a good one.
The HEIGHT of this Parking Lot A started off in July as a 50 FOOT TALL, 5 STORY proposal, and
has MORPHED in a STRUCTURE 50% TALLER, now it's a PROPOSED SEVENTY-FIVE (75) FOOT
TALL Ugly Behemoth.
VISUAL DRAWINGS of the HEIGHTENED Site Plans presented to the VILLAGE BOARD were NOT
TO SCALE. Thereby MISLEADING the Public and the Village Board at that Public Meeting. These
INTENTIONALLY MISREPRESENTED the SIZE and VISUAL IMPACT of the Larger Project on the
Village.
This proposed Large Colossus has been described as a Monstrosity, Prisonlike, a Motel 6, and
other uncomplimentary names. Fittingly, as IMAGINED, it faces two SIMILARLY LARGE
STRIKING MONSTORS in Ossining, the Prison, and Harbor Square Waterfront Condos.
Submitted for the Planning Board Record
Edmund P. Riely Jr.
110 Truesdale Drive
Croton-on-Hudson, New York 10520
(914). . . .

1111

■?

From Susan Skrelja - Truesdale Drive
First, I would like to applaud the Planning Board for your sensical
recommendations to the Board of Trustees when it came to the
development of Lot A. I am confident that much fewer residents would
oppose the development if it were reduced in size, to 60 - 80 units, as
you suggested AND offered at 80% market rate with 20% set aside as
the RFP requested. My hope is that you will continue to listen to the
legitimate concerns of residents and that you will help enforce your
recommendations. When Maria Slippen was running for the trustee
seat, she also said 60-units on that site is what she envisioned.
I would like to remind the board and anyone who may be listening, the
Katz Property, now Maple Commons, was also village-owned
property. It was sold and developed into 32-units of all-affordable
housing and was given a PILOT - payment in lieu of
taxes. Additionally, this project was a bait in switch in many forms,
including the change in adjusted gross income requirements needing
to qualify- they presently range from as low as 30% AMI to 80%
AMI.
Lot A is also village-owned property. The proposed 100-units of all
affordable housing means that we will miss out on literally hundreds of
thousands of dollars in Parks and Recreation fees and given that it will
have a lower tax bill, it'll generate significantly lower taxes, forcing the
current residents to make up the difference.
The one other alternative bid for Lot A offered 2600 sq. ft of
community space on the first level accessible to all residents and was
going to be 80% market rate I 20% affordable.
The people of this Village should have a say in what gets developed
on village-owned sites - it's literally our land! There should be
incentives to the village community at large, instead, we're offered no
community space, no green space, $0 in Parks and Recreation fees
and THE largest development since Half Moon Bay and it's all
affordable.

I cannot comprehend the logic behind these extreme decisions. 32
units all affordable at Maple Commons, 40 more affordable units that
have been approved across several other projects AND 100 units at
Lot A. From a purely economic standpoint, it is clear that affordable
housing can be offered in moderation - this is not moderation! As a
taxpayer burdened with exorbitant taxes, I am outraged that this
administration blatantly ignores basic market principles and the farreaching consequences of their actions on all those who currently live
here.
The Mayor insists there is an acute need for housing. What there is
an acute need for is for an administration that serves its constituents
and not themselves, their boss, or their wife and their political
aspirations.
To the planning board, I ask that you continue to fight for what we as a
community deserve, especially since its village-owned land.

o.,.,~
210O_,.iOtM

In~ ol lhetlMIV ot truttNe•tt..,.I to und41r- 1h11 bod)'

with ■ 111-ie.,ibl9Yld0thot your
nd Ill thO~I out l)Nlt9CI,

onty,. ,,_ 111 IO at!KI IP!t lllt\l-,Y •nd drapaty !Of 1'111 -,.l1ed •
w.,,_1.1ynwc1.-,..101 MICII mora

we IN,__,

Clf CIGtll!I ICJOl< tott,f pla,_.,..boetd to p,ovtdeconu1111 end eocur.cr to thO

_,,,..,,andCM"91CIPtf1,""'°"'8,,VolUJl'91C9flf101betnatod
OU,

pelcl ~ AIUU', NI pc,vldad dubloU9 a,i,ptllee th.i are lnace-• llncl ' - •

pOinlof.....,. ni.v-not1,lrMtOunblulel
..... r«--ll'MtlllaMllmpact.lfflllCO (o,clllblt 1) lwlll&IIMewlthyoll ™--•en lfflllltUHd
io,ustly ltllt ~ .ronlnl ChllrCN • Mii H (INIMIUy} to, this LOI A d""91o,pffWlt. Ctnfttyou c:an
-11111 II".,_,,.. end d ~ inlheth IIIOWS no to•of vl-.hed tomo tNIMnll atw,,yr,a
SrrNI. ..tllCfl
!IOI be 1M caN U Ille 11pOat0\1 vlaunl 011al
- Eahlbct 2 ..-_ 1h11 '11hltll& 2
-nac-edun

•'-di

1-1~111u.lnocouratodll!a,tlfflhle.

AIID....,.1111ata1001ta1ext11111'13. Whkh.,_-.marblallOdvlawr.-ntJncm.p,c,pmed
111N~lfiallwellou1C111C8101oth1t1urrovnd e onmontL Now, td-~lnlhellno
prW'II,, NlS,,a.ft thlrl doc1911't ftlllko ih CMdomiaryvlawof thoMWIIUUCturv ,.,.,,,_ _ _ and
___,mm.-•~-wlllWI Ille ~ese,,dopenend thobotfdot~-tueui
111evdon"t-,tUSI0 -lflaUUlhof i-0¥Crtl:rod and out of ac.e!OCIIII p,otoct It IOf aw
- - ~ O f O U t'Yili.,o.
1n ..-.ottt-. ...,_ llttOfflll(llopifllon on llleacopaGlyvu,- .u1hotltY. The\llllap raldantaraty on
., .....,_.,.,. tllennlnC8wd 10 mn throual't bin, menipulMlon or dote aMI provide u. __,..
0!91111111 oni-lhia.tholerletl~urelnthe........ ll~OYrlMIINta. W&UUSt)'OUta
~~rmpert c,p,nlone 11traon p■rldna, on lireNloty(epeclllcallytht~ lllll....,,....
........ had with IN fire chief lhet NW' Urb profOCC wtll IIOI be Oflru !Wtnl,) They... lndl'ded
•----to•CIOIWN!IOfl .. lMlltf!Ce. W.ANdyolllOwerilylhlaco..-Nllon (Pleue),and
~ - • I I lawrllt.,.lnltie reconl, lneddhlan, wo need you to'lllllyhowUIII Pfoi-c:t
~UJtf'lllldln«.diHelf Hoon Bey. - -ayltllm. our on etr• peltlnt- l'ulltic: ..-y,
achools, and tO llht t..in l1allon durinl ch..,.__ ot Metro North ,lllft9.

1ut11•-,o-.ot "'1tl'"-__._.,._thtlnwwar ■net bGad ~lol.-Oupon ,,., I OQll'lbelAMI
.,.C8f!tt\lll CheWfflc • ~ . , 904.lfld pollllllon lffllll'vlll•Ad 111M PQUutlOnlN!yWtwe""" Mtfl
PfCMded -endwa lootto ~ 10 un~•dllN doc.ft■, o,not, lflCI ... ua ... Iha, thalr 1nat,s1a Ind

,.._.. .. eouno. ,..._1Ccep1U...dnetlllllblta10ell0wwt'¥10lftllfWolu■ lnlhle.._.
foelclee■MdbylheffWWofendlhl.._...,

We hope)'OU-tltfp IHI,

J.-, Hi

l

<
-·
(/)

'A''[\r.J-; 1

-.

C
OJ

J"

,,

f

!,,

0

3i

1

~

:-'

V,

~

.i,.
<Q

,E

~o

~

~

~

~I

:,

d]

11

'·

0

~

;;a:,

fl

n

rt(/)

...--...
f.,

.,"O

OJ

:,
<h

~

;;;-

!I

-0

i !:. Q)

g_ ~ i

~ ~

~

;~~
g; is.
c5 o,

> "Jl

)!LJJ~
-

"'""
>

--- ,, 0

_,,i\J
Cl)

3

~

::,

V,

--

n
0

a

::l
rt•
...._...

1t.

.,"O
0

~

;;-

)>

I•

!t

JI

Ir

11r
111

1l
Ir

4> _:,-,

~~--::::0

2
--.
\~

rJP

.,•
II
ll

!r

,Jr x
Jr( I

11r
Ir

~~
~

~

s }

1 ....,._

t-' .i'St-I'

~

~

I

~
~

~

~
.......

I':\_

~

~

)-\

I

r.
I

!•

l
I
i

!

i
I

II

.

.-

,.
I

co

....

C,

' !I ·

