Planning Board Meeting Minutes
May 7th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of May 7th, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) Moir, Lisa, MG's Homemade LLC, OBA The Blue Pig- 121 Maple Street (78.8-7-7)
Amended Site Plan Application to convert off-street parking spaces into a patio area with
outdoor tables and chairs

John Ghegan made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion
carried, 4-0, with Steve Krisly being absent.
Lisa Moir was again present in support of the application. Chairman Luntz asked for comments from the
Planning Board, and there were none. Chairman Luntz then invited comments from the audience, and
there being none, Geoff Haynes made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus,
and the motion carried, 4-0.
A question was asked if a condition should be added to the resolution regarding the dropped curb in
front of the business and it was decided that this issue was not the Planning Board's responsibility, but
something to be resolved by either the property owner or tenant and the Department of Transportation.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the amended site plan application for Lisa Moir, MG's
Homemade LLC, OBA The Blue Pig - 121 Maple Street to convert off-street parking spaces into a patio
area with outdoor tables and chairs, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 4 - 0.

3.

NEW BUSINESS

a)

Munoz, Joyce, Allure Auto Spa - 351 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-1-65) - Request for
Waiver of Sign Permit Regulations.

Joyce Munoz was present in support of the application. The applicant stated that the "Open" banner
sign was in front of her business for the past year and a half so she would like to keep the it there to let
patrons know that the business is open. Chairman Luntz says that the "Open" banner does not meet
Village code. Chairman Luntz agrees with the enforcement of this code and stated that if the Planning
Board allowed this, these signs could pop up throughout the Village. The applicant asked for
suggestions as to what else she could do to advertise her business and if she could put something else
in the right of way. There are currently signs on the front and side of the building, including the price list,

1

which may also need a waiver. The Planning Board will refer this to the VEB for review with the hope
that they make recommendations for signs that are allowable within the current Village Code. Chairman
Luntz stated that they did not want the auto spa to go out of business. John Ghegan asked if it was
possible to give the applicant a month or two grace so there is a smooth transition, but Dan O'Connor
read the Village code that stated that the banner could only stay for 45 days.
b} Berger, Eric- 213 Cleveland Drive (68.18-1-66)-Approval for an Accessory Dwelling Unit
Eric & Jessica Berger were present in support of the application. The applicant stated that he hired a
project manager who looked around the neighborhood as they want the proposed accessory dwelling
unit to fit in with the character of the neighborhood. The applicant is aware that the maximum suggested
size of an accessory dwelling unit is 800 square-feet. They measured the setbacks and the closest is 11
feet. The applicant stated that the topography of the backyard makes it hard to build on as there is a
slope. The applicant also stated that the Village did a good job when they installed the new drainage
system, which solved some of their issues in building the ADU. The applicant is aware that the
proposed driveway is a concern for some neighbors, as Jacoby Street is a throughfare, and the applicant
thought that maybe Jacoby Street should be a cul-de-sac.
The applicant heard that Con Ed is not easy to deal with, so he is planning to build an electric home, and
water for the proposed ADU will be tapped from his house. Due to the setbacks, some trees may need
to be taken down, he is waiting for a report from an arborist.
The applicant reported that his neighbors do not want people or contractors on their property, so the
applicant proposed a green screen of arborvitaes, which Chairman Luntz said was a nice gesture.
The applicant addressed the size of the proposed accessory dwelling unit which is larger than the maximum
allowed square footage of 800 square feet. The applicant is in the RA 25 zoning district, but his lot size is
29,000 square feet, and up until now, the space was not usable as you could not build on it or sell it, so he
would like to build the accessory dwelling unit for extended family. The proposed house is a ranch, and it
will fit in with the character of the neighborhood.
Chairman Luntz stated that the biggest factor is the size and square footage of the proposed ADU.
Chairman Luntz stated that the issue of the range and size of ADUs was carefully talked about and the
Planning Board did not feel cottages belonged on the smaller lots, but the law was passed giving people
the right to have ADUs on their property, however, this proposed ADU is significantly over the
recommended size plus a screened in porch. Chairman Luntz suggested that the applicant go back to
his architect and have the plans revised and that the Planning Board would be open to a structure that
was closer to the suggested size. Chairman Luntz said that the Planning Board had heard from
neighbors, one in favor of the project, others against it.
The Planning Board thought that the retaining wall seemed necessary and appropriate. Chairman Luntz
also said that the applicant does not have to put in parking if after a parking analysis, it was not thought
to be necessary. It was noted that the Planning Board has approved some ADUs that were exceptions
to the size requirements, but they were for existing structures, not a new build as is presented with this
current application. The applicant noted that the required FAR (Floor Area Ratio} is 0.2 and his
proposed ADU was 0.12.
Neil Hammel of 4 Jacoby Street spoke and said that he has been living in his home since 1971. Mr.
Hamell's home is 1100 square feet and he believes that the small plots were envisioned this way, they
were not intended to support massive structures. A few years ago, Neil Hammel got sink holes which
led to the drainage improvement project. Mr. Hammel reported that he still has flooding, and putting in a
new development will not help the drainage. Mr. Hammel is concerned about a new driveway and
construction vehicles in front of his driveway.

2

Christopher Caulfield of 1 Jacoby Street also spoke and stated that his big concern was with the size of
the proposed ADU and the screened- in porch, which could in time become a third bedroom. Mr.
Caulfield stated that in the past, a new home was proposed on that property and the Village said No.
Applicant Jessica Berger stated that if you look at Google maps from before they purchased their
property and compare the photos to the property today, you can see how much work they have done
and that they improved the appearance of the area and they would like to progress with that.
The applicant stated that he does not think that the drainage issues at 4 Jacoby Street have anything to
do with his property.
The Planning Board did not act on this application, but gave the applicant the option to have his architect
revise the plans and come back to the Planning Board at a later meeting.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes April 16, 2024

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of April 16th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0.

5.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:11 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended on 5/21/24 by a vote of 4-0 with Steve Krisky abstaining as he
was absent on 5/7/14***

3

1
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on May 7th , 2024, the Planning Board held a public hearing on an Amended Site Plan
application for MG's Homemade DBA "The Blue Pig", hereafter known as "the Applicant." The
subject property, owned by Mark Franzoso, is located at 121 Maple Street (Tax Parcel Address:
18 Old Post Road South) in the C-1 General Commercial Zoning District and designated on the
Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.08 Blk. 7 Lot 7; and
WHEREAS, the proposal is for the conversion of off-street parking spaces into a patio area with
outdoor tables and chairs; and
WHEREAS, on February 8, 2024, the Zoning Board of Appeals granted a variance from Village
Zoning Code Section 230-35 for the elimination of off-street parking; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board agrees that backing out of the former off-street parking spaces
was unsafe, and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Amended Site plan application submitted to
convert off-street parking spaces into a patio area with outdoor table and chairs, be approved with
the following conditions:

1) That the No Parking and other signs be relocated as determined by the Village
Engineer and the Department of Public Works.

In the event that this amended site plan is not implemented within three (3) years of this date, this
approval shall expire.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 4 to 0,
with Steve Krisky being absent.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on May 7th , 2024.

