MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Jan. 26, 2025 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coordinator)

Absent:
Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE

David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
Cheryl Wong (new member)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): Carly Shanks, Edwin Adkins
Announcements: At the Jan. 22 meeting of the Village Board (VB), Mayor Pugh formally
appointed Cheryl Wong to the Sust. Comm. Welcome Cheryl!
On 12/3/24, NYSERDA announced termination of the renewable power contracts that
would have supported the 5 GW Clean Path transmission line from upstate to Con Ed
territory (where total load exceeds 10 GW). The project was to come on line in 2027.
On 12/20/24, NYPA asked PSC to support a 1.3 GW version by using existing NYPA
rights-of-way, and (to support CLCPA) by declaring it a “priority transmission project”.
The Champlain Express (CHPE) 1.25
GW line from Quebec is ~50% done and
should be finished in spring 2026.
Bottom line: the high GHG intensity of our
local power (.974 lb/kWh as of 2023 EPA
eGrid data, >4X that of upstate NY) may
continue longer than projected.
In early Dec. in response to NYSERDA’s
RFI to identify entities wishing to develop
nuclear solutions for the state, NANO
Nuclear Energy Inc., maker of microreactor technology, said that it’s “examining replacement nuclear technology that
could be inserted at…Indian Point because it’s already been licensed. It’s already got
an infrastructure that sets up for that kind of technology and facility”. In August, NY
Senate Republicans introduced a bill designed to explore reopening Indian Point
- EV/EVSE
Len updated us on Croton’s pending e-bike program. Rollout is expected in June.
Seven sites around the Village will be equipped with racks and the bikes. Among
efforts to inform the public and encourage participation, Len mentioned featuring it at
the Bike-Ped Committee’s Earth Day table, an assembly of bike riders (non-electric)
1

that ends at Senasqua Park on Earth Day, and a public meeting when the system is
open for use.
The fully executed DEC contract for the train station EV charger grant was signed on
1/13/25. On 1/22/25, SolSystems agreed to give us a $25K credit instead of doing the
related trench and conduit work, as discussed below. That construction will instead be
folded into the SOW for installing the system. A draft RFP for installation of the system
is being readied for Village Engineer review.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: All batteries have
been installed and charged. The site is
mostly cleaned up. The underside LED
lights should be on by late February. Con
Ed’s Permission To Operate (PTO) the
whole system is now looking like March or
April. Dave asked about the financial impact
of the project on Con Ed’s bottom line. Jon
and Lindsay described how Con Ed will buy
the power to meet a PSC requirement for
use of renewable power, and that the utility
is compensated via its electric rates for any
negative financial impact. Len provided the
Gazette pic at right. Its caption touts how the
canopies shielded commuters’ cars from last
week’s 5.5” snowfall.
DPW solar parking canopy: The possible
loss of the 30% IRA tax credit was reviewed. Due also to the reduced NY-SUN
incentive and NYSERDA’s $/MT limit on what it will pay for a solar project, losing the
IRA $ could leave us short $32K-$50K. However, Len pointed out that while federal
grants may be suspended, tax credits are unlikely to be threatened in the near future.
A draft RFP is being readied for the Village Engineer’s review.
SW Municipal Solar program: On 1/18/25, SW proposed a service that could
manage a municipal solar project for a fee. We await its proposal. Having SW’s Leo
Wiegman provide those services could significantly expedite the DPW canopy project.
This service is not related to SW’s planned residential Solarize effort discussed below.
- Heat Pumps
Harmon firehouse addition: Installation of a hybrid (ASHP/gas) rooftop unit is on
hold until spring when construction should be ready to receive it. Work will not be
affected by changes in IRA funding.
Washington firehouse garage HPs: Jon and Lindsay are finishing a draft SOW and
RFP for review by the Village Engineer. As per Jon’s earlier findings on the cost and
efficiency of an air-to-water (instead of an air-to-air) heat pump, we will instead move
2

ahead with his original design with 6 ASHPs, coupled with a 15 kW electric boiler to
ensure full heating service on very cold days. He stated that ASHPs installed after
1/1/25 need to use a new refrigerant that might slightly impact the cost, and is
updating his expected pricing thereof.
Issues of electric service capacity, load on the firehouse’s emergency generator, etc.
are being assessed by John Whelan of Switch Electric. He tentatively concluded that
the existing electric service may be sufficient for the proposed added loads. If correct,
the cost to electrify the heating system may be manageable.
Full electrification would allow decommissioning of the 45+ year old underground oil
tank. During a 12/8/24 chat with Bronxville’s sustainability coordinator, Lindsay
learned that both of that village’s municipal oil tanks (40-50 years old) were found to
be leaking last summer. DEC became involved, resulting in installation of temporary
above-ground oil tanks, natural gas services, and replacement of boilers’ burners.
DPW HPs: The option to replace #2 fuel oil with Renewable Diesel (RD) has put the
this project on hold until RD operating cost and availability issues are sorted out.
Residential HPs: NY State has yet to roll out its Home Electrification and Appliance
Rebates (HEAR) program for middle income homeowners. It’s now expected by
spring. Once available, we’ll assess it for our long-delayed program to replace
residential electric DHW heaters with HPWH. Jon has a volunteer (his daughter) to
assist with the survey work to find existing electric water heaters ripe for replacement.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
Loss/delay of the 30% IRA tax credit won’t affect our HP or EV charger projects since
IRA funding is not available for them.
Re: the demise of the Clean Energy Community (CEC) program (from which we
secured >$500K in grants), we await word on its pending merger with the Climate
Smart Community (CSC) program, likely by late spring. At that time, a new grant
program may be announced. Based on its standing in both programs, Croton is well
positioned to secure such funding.
Now that the train station work is approaching completion, Village officials on 12/12/24
raised to Arevon (Sol’s financier) the issue of securing an IRA $300K DirectPay tax
credit (for 30% of the $1M Village payment for stormwater management work).
However, Arevon stated that it had already sold tax credits based on the $500K the
Village has paid so far, creating a problem. They instead agreed to credit us $150K,
thus reducing our 2nd $500K payment to $350K. Village officials chose to take the
$150K with a proviso that Sol/Arevon provide an additional $25K credit to resolve the
Special Permit calling for EV charger trenching and conduits. Together, those credits
will cut the Village’s final stormwater mgt. payment to $325K.
- Other Reports
3

Re: the draft renewable diesel (RD) memo attached to Nov.’s meeting minutes. Jon
made valuable adjustments to its math and content. Dan found the memo acceptable.
We await RD pricing on the State fuel contract, expected in February. If OK, we can
then propose RD use for Village diesel vehicles and DPW oil-fired boilers.
Regarding RD, the NY League of Conservation Voters’ 2025 Policy Agenda includes
these goals: “For diesel trucks and equipment in public fleets, adopt a state policy
commitment to use low-carbon biobased [e.g., biodiesel] or renewable diesel in all
public truck and equipment fleets” [and for buildings] “modify the state’s bioheat law of
2021 to expand the definition of bio-heating fuel to include renewable diesel.”
During a chat with a Yorktown sustainability activist, Lindsay learned that a 5 MW / 15
MWhr lithium-ion battery power storage system (same storage capacity as our train
station batteries) was installed in Jefferson Valley (part of Yorktown) in late 2022 or
early 2023 by Borrego Solar (proposed of other nearby projects). Find a site plan at
https://www.yorktownny.gov/sites/default/files/fileattachments/planning/page/21811/yo
rktown_energy_storage_aka_borrego_solar_-_signed_site_plan.pdf
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
The press release on our attainment of 18,600 CEC points (highest in the Statewide
program) and a photo were featured in the Village’s November newsletter. The press
release also appeared in the 12/6/24 issue of the Northern Westchester Examiner. A
revised version acceptable to NYSERDA was distributed on 12/30/24.
On 1/12/25, a 3-page feature that included pics, video, and info on the train station
canopy project appeared in the Journal News. A PDF was sent to committee
members. The Village will post a link to the article at our web page, but it will only work
for Journal News subscribers. The newspaper would not allow other access.
- New Business / Other Issues
Two new projects were discussed.
Textile recycling event at Earth Day: Cheryl Wong summarized her proposal for a
separate Sust. Comm. table at Croton’s Earth Day (May 3rd 11 AM, once again at
Senasqua Park). Her detailed proposal is appended at the end of these minutes.
New Sust. West. (SW) Solarize program: Carly Shanks expressed interest in
overseeing a new Solarize project. Our previous (and 2nd) effort was in 2018. Working
through SW, it involved vetting and choosing one solar contractor, followed by
education and promotion of residential and small commercial solar installations. It was
successful, resulting in ~30 installations, including atop Jon’s house.
Coincidentally, SW is developing a new Solarize program. In response to a 12/18/24
query on it, Leo Wiegman of SW said: “[SW] will run one [Solarize] program countywide for at least a year. We will work directly with municipalities and their volunteer
committees to promote awareness of Solarize Westchester locally.
4

Everyone interested will be sent to a SW Solarize webpage to register. SW will assist
inquiring homeowners or business owners with a preliminary desktop solar
assessment. Those still interested will be referred to 2 or 3 vetted solar installers who
are active at present in the County and have high quality assurance marks from
NYSERDA, among other qualifications. SW will fund the resources it devotes to
Solarize Westchester out of receiving a pre-negotiated referral fee from the
companies that complete a solar installation from our referrals.
Municipalities who want a local Solarize campaign will need to demonstrate they have
streamlined local permitting and approval process for PV systems under 25 kWdc and
be willing to use their local outreach methods to raise awareness. Croton will clearly
qualify!
This week I [Leo Wiegman] am vetting qualifications from a select number of solar
contractors (Solar Liberty is not among them). Next week we will be reaching out to
our municipalities to gauge interest. If all goes well, we will launch in February.
Based on Leo’s description, our effort could include promoting the program at our
Earth Day table and at a later live in-person event in early fall. Once we get details on
the SW offering, we’ll review its options at our February meeting.

Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, Feb. 23, 2025 at 10:00 AM via Zoom.

5

May 2025 Textile Collection Event Proposal – January 2025 Draft
Author: Cheryl Wong
Proposal: I propose that the Sustainability Committee (Sust Comm) host a textile
collection event on May 3, 2025 in conjunction with the Croton Conservation Advisory
Committee’s (CAC’s) Earth Day events. Residents of the village of Croton and their
guests will bring clothing and other textiles they wish to donate or recycle. Helpsy, a
certified B corp dedicated to textile reuse and recycle, will pick up textiles donated by
village residents. Volunteers from Sust Comm, CAC, and other local organizations
will staff the table.
Event Description: Sust Comm and CAC will have a table, tent, chairs and a banner
at the CAC Earth Day Event at Senasqua Park on May 3rd, 2025 from 11 am to 3:30
pm. The rain date for the Earth Day Event is May 10; contingency plans for the
Textile Event in case the Earth Day Event is rained out are still under development.
Volunteers will arrive at 10am to set up. At least 1 volunteer will be present at the table
to answer questions and perform a cursory check of donations from village residents
from 11 am to 3:30 pm.
Residents will drop off clean, dry, odorless textiles in clear plastic bags. If a Resident
does not have a clear plastic bag, Sust Comm will provide them, but all marketing for
the event should specify that the textiles should be dropped off in clear plastic bags to
discourage loose donations.
Volunteers will do a cursory check to ensure the item is a textile we accept, dry, and
has no visible stains from bodily fluids or strong odors. Items with broken fasteners or
holes are acceptable. A full list of types of textiles and criterion for acceptance are in
Appendix 2. Residents will be asked to take back textiles not meeting the criterion as
no waste collection will be provided as part of this event.
Volunteers will put the bags in boxes for collection by Helpsy. Volunteers will also
answer questions or provide literature about Sust Comm and CAC efforts, such as
the Composting Program, and Helpsy’s reuse/recycle program.
Volunteers will pack up materials, tables, and chairs at 3:45 pm. A truck from Helpsy is
scheduled for a 3:45 pm arrival for a 4 pm end time to the event. Helpsy will collect
the boxes for processing at their facility.
Budget: Below are the anticipated costs to the event and an estimated budget. This
budget will be finalized and agreed upon with Sust Comm and the Village of Croton
prior to the event.
Item

Cost per Unit

Quantity

6

Total

3’ x 5’ Banner with “Textile
Collection” print
Clear Plastic Bags
Tables
Chairs
Printouts
Pens
Clipboard

$103.64

1

$103.64 1

$26.00
Donated
Donated
Donated
Donated
Donated

1
3
3
100
10
2

$26.00 2
0
0
0
0
0
$1

Grand Total

Helpsy will pay for the donated textiles at $0.10 a pound. As of the January 2025
version of this proposal, how the Helpsy payment will be processed is to be
determined.
Marketing: The Textile Collection Event will be advertised in the Village Newsletter,
Village Facebook page and Instagram, and in the local church bulletins. As of the
January 2025 draft of this proposal, marketing materials are still in flight. 3
Volunteer: Volunteers are needed for the following tasks.
Before the Event Day
● Advertise event with local groups and on their social media
● Create or compile materials for distribution on the day of the event.
● Print marketing materials for distribution on day of the event – Village of Croton
will print
● Secure collection bins before the day of the event – Sust Comm can provide a
box; Helpsy can provide rolling bins
● Create/print banner and obtain materials to mount banner
● Secure canopy and stakes/weights to hold it in place against wind – Sust Comm
may provide
● Secure several light or fold-up chairs
● Obtain booth layout map from CAC
On the Day of the Event in the Morning
● Bring and set up collection bins on the day of the event
● Set up tables, chairs, canopy, clothing hangers/bar, and collection bins on the
day of the event

1 Estimate is based on https://www.bannersonthecheap.com and includes shipping and bungees to hang

the banner
2 Estimated cost is based on Jumbo 20 Gallon Size Zip Bags from Amazon and includes shipping and
taxes.
3 The event is expected to be branded as a joint project of the Sustainability Committee and
Conversation Advisory Council. I am in touch with Sustainability Committee Public Relations associate
Adlin Hadid, linum04@gmail.com on production of materials.

7

On the Day of the Event During the Event
● Perform cursory checks of donated textiles
● Put them in the bins
● Answer questions about the Sustainability Committee or take down the asker’s
questions and contact information
On the Day of the Event After the Event
● Store or recycle the unused literature
● Clean up the tables/chairs
● Return any donated equipment (such as a canopy or rolling rack)
Appendix 1: Textile Types and Quality Criterion for Acceptance
We will accept clean, dry, odorless textiles with no visible stains from bodily fluids.
Holes, rips, and broken fasteners are acceptable.
Examples of the types of textiles we will accept include the following 4:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

stuffed animals
clothes and shoes
linens
blankets and comforters
rugs
curtains
towels
tablecloths
pillows and pillowcases
shoes
cloth luggages
outerwear (coats, gloves, hats)
underwear including bras
swimwear
cloth tents

Examples of the types of textiles we will not accept include the following:
•
•

plastic shell luggages
plastic tarps

Appendix 2: Event Day Volunteer Staffing List
Volunteers will be needed for the following shifts on the day of the event

4 This list is still in discussion with Helpsy as of January 2025

8

Shift
9 – 11am

11 – 1pm
1 – 3pm
3 – 5pm

Tasks
Bring canopy, banner, printed materials to
Senasqua Park.
Receive bins from Helpsy and set them up.
Set up tables, set up canopy, set up chairs,
set up bins
Perform checks of donated materials.
Answer resident’s questions
Perform checks of donated materials.
Answer resident’s questions
Close up canopy, close down tables, gather
and store or recycle leftover printed
materials.
Assist with Helpsy pick up.
Return canopy.

9

# of Volunteers Needed
2

2
2
2

