CROTON CONSERVATION ADVISORY COUNCIL
Meeting Minutes
January 23, 2024
PLACE: Zoom
START TIME: Approximately 7:30pm ET.
END TIME: Approximately 8:15pm ET
ATTENDING:
● Janet Monahan, Chair
● Lance Amato
● Terry McGarty
● Sherry Horowitz (intermittent connection issues)
● Mayor Brian Pugh
● Planning Board Liaison Steven Krisky
● Trustee Nora Nicholson (first part of the meeting)
● Ellen Siracusa , member ex officio
● John Ealer, Recording Secretary for this meeting
Not in attendance:
● Rachel Bernstein
● Jamie Czuy
Note from John E / Recording Secretary: Overall these minutes are organized
chronologically. However, when subjects have been revisited occasionally the notes have been
re-grouped by theme for clarity.
MEETING DISCUSSION / ACTIONS
I.
II.
III.

IV.

V.

MEETING BEGAN APPROXIMATELY 7:30PM ET.
MINUTES: from the December 12, 2023 meeting were approved
BOARD AND COMMITTEE GUIDELINES: Janet shared her screen featuring the Village
Board and Committee Guidelines, ran through it, asked if everyone had read it, asked if
there were any questions and any comments from the Mayor. General consensus is that
it was straightforward and self-explanatory.
A. Document with guidelines attached at end of these minutes.
REVOLVING RECORDING SECRETARIES: Janet asked for volunteers for next two
meetings.
A. Lance Amato volunteered for February.
B. John Ealer volunteered for March.
C. Janet asked for advanced notice if a recording secretary won’t be able to make it
in order to have time to find a replacement.
D. Janet noted that Rachel might be able to do it sometime in the spring.
EARTH DAY: Janet summarized: it’s well on its way, overall, as follows:
A. BUDGET: Janet met with Emily and Daniel Tucker (Village Treasurer) re:
budget. We’re fine.

B. SIGNS: Terry working on signs, Janet noted that invoice from sign vendor
outstanding. Terry will confirm the rain date with the vendor and then touch base
regarding the invoice.
C. INVOICES: Daniel would like all invoices by the beginning of April.
D. VENDOR FORM: Became available Monday the 22nd. Janet sent last year's
vendor list the new form via email.
1. Mark Franzoso already completed.
2. Chloe from Clearwater is definitely coming.
3. No response from Riverkeepers after 2x outreach to Katie.
4. Lindsey Audin (Sustainability Chair Committee) and Matt Arnold (Bicycle
Committee Chair) have told Janet they are participating.
5. Ellen will reach out to those Janet didn’t have email addresses for.
E. FLIER: Rachel Bernstein is doing the flier, will give it to Emily for the February
Newsletter.
F. SOCIAL MEDIA: Who can help with social media postings?
1. Lance Amato said he’d be willing to talk about helping with social media.
G. ENTERTAINMENT
1. Storyteller Jonathan Kruk is coming at 1PM, proposes storytelling
performance for families featuring Hudson River lore and ways to
preserve the environment. Approximately one hour. Includes indigenous
stories / origins /lore
2. Jan Aiello: Ellen’s contact with big puppets, coming at noon. For 1 hour.
Talking to kids about Mother Earth puppet. Jan was recommended by
Emily Mancini.
3. Rose Cohen: Ellen reaching out to her. Pre-K music teacher at Park
School in Ossining.
4. Barry Keegan: Janet was thinking about reaching out to him re: Native
American display, but that’s on hold since we may already be packed.
5. Janet asked if there was anyone else we should reach out to.
a) No additional suggestions.
H. FOOD
1. John E. has sent a vendor form to Kinwich Food Truck.
2. Janet has sent to Blue Pig
3. Janet also thinking about Little Star, Hudson Oven, etc.
4. Ellen is reaching out to the new coffee place “Here” by Ossining Train
Station.
5. Steve will try to reach out to Margaret re: Honey / Beekeeping.
6. Other ideas? Let us know.
7. John asked if we have a tracking list of vendors, Janet said look for this
from crotoncac44@gmail.com email. She will resend.
I. SCHOOLS
1. Janet would like them involved in Earth Day. Some discussion about how
to engage the schools.

VI.

a) Janet said the high school has SATs, so middle or elementary
better.
2. Ellen suggested her daughter-in-law at CET might be able to help.
3. Janet asked Sherry if she could use her Repair Cafe contact at the Middle
School to engage schools.
4. Janet suggests a science project / hand-on activity for the younger kids.
5. Ellen suggested Girl Scout Groups have done similar.
J. DARK SKIES
1. Terry suggested the Dark Skies Committee have a presence at Earth Day.
2. Eva suggested it could be part of the school outreach noted above.
3. General discussion of who could do a talk in schools to get them
interested.
a) Janet offered to try if she had assistance to get up to speed.
b) Lance suggested he could help out.
4. The Dark Skies committee will discuss this at their next meeting.
K. TREE DISTRIBUTIONS
1. Eva: Do we want to give away trees? If so, how many, what kind?
2. Eva and Janet think the wIllow didn’t go well last time, Sherry thought
they did.
3. Eva noted that they seemed to like the trees and shrubs that grow fast.
4. Eva will see what the vendor has left.
5. Eva: We had 50x4 different ones last time - will be a little over $200 this
time, Janet says that’s fine.
L. CRAFTS
1. Janet asked for anyone if they had suggestions for hand-on crafts.
2. Ellen suggested she will also try to get Casey to do yoga.
M. BIRDS
1. Janet emailed Cary (Bird Commissioner) and Sawmill Audabon re:
attending Earth Day.
2. She will also email Jan.
DARK SKIES
A. Scott Levine wrote the blurb for Conversation Corner that went into the January
newsletter.
B. Scott would like to do a Green Living Series lecture.
C. Suggestion to put together a presentation to the Village for DPW to get shields,
better light bulbs.
D. Also outreach to local businesses was discussed.
1. Shoprite - may be hard to get movement due to their landlord / lease
situation.
a) Janet asks Mayor Pugh if the lighting question could be brought
up at the public hearing for Shop Rite’s special permit. Mayor
Pugh said he’d look into it.
b) Steve Krisky discussed some of the planning board’s
recommendations to the Trustees regarding that permit - basically

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII.

a short-term renewal of the permit pending remediation of existing
issues. Mayor Pugh indicated the decision will be up to the
trustees
2. MTA - Not going to budge.
GREEN LIVING SERIES
A. Lance asked about the timing for GLS.
B. Janet says likely to start after Earth Day, but she’ll work on it now as well since
Earth Day is moving forward.
C. Lance suggested that Earth day would be a good time to post / present dates and
topics.
TREE COMMITTEE
A. Janet relayed Rachel’s report.
B. Rachel, Sherri and Jamie (zoom) met on January 5th.
C. Reviewed Greenburgh Law.
D. Each member will review one part of the law, they divided it up into four parts.
E. Rachel’s report suggests that the current Street Tree law could be strengthened
by enforcing it better.
F. They will be contacting Greenburgh and Cortlandt for feedback on process and
future plans.
G. Next meeting pending scheduling, likely early February.
C.L.E.A.N. - John E.
A. John reported that a successful cleanup of Dobbs happened with six people
showing up, including Rachel B., Trustee Murtaugh, Trustee Nicholson.
B. Thorough clean-up of the area, including the surrounding streets. Area wasn’t as
bad as expected.
C. Next event scheduling pending weather, definitely targeting River Walks /
Senasqua, etc.
D. Not planning a clean-up during the Earth Day celebration, but instead will be
doing one the week before (on the “official” Earth Day”) since that was
well-attended previously.
E. Janet suggested we could clean up Senasqua the weekend before Earth Day.
F. John liked this idea and suggested they’d likely start at Senasqua and move up
toward the landing.
GARDEN CLUB - Eva
A. No winter sowing class this year. In March, Dahlia workshop jointly with Rec dept.
B. Perennials 101: Saturday 2/17 at the Library 3PM - two presenters from
members.
1. Gwen - incredible perennial garden, sharing slides showing the garden
changing over the seasons.
2. Mark - retired professional garden designer will present as well.
TRAILS - Terry M.
A. A few people have been out doing tactical / recon stuff as they wait for the
weather to improve.
MISCELLANEOUS

XIII.

A. Gouveia Park committee meeting tomorrow at 8 PM.
B. Ellen asked about remaining money funding Gouveia, Janet said the report isn’t
finalized yet.
MEETING ADJOURNED APPROXIMATELY 8:15PM.

Croton-on-Hudson Board & Committee Member Guidelines
OVERVIEW: The Village of Croton-on-Hudson is grateful to its residents who volunteer their time to
serve on its advisory and statutory boards, committees, councils and commissions (referred to as
“committees” hereinafter). These committees meet regularly to handle referrals from the Village Board,
advise on policy items and make recommendations to the Village Manager and Village Board on items
under their purview.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
1. Upon appointment, the Village Clerk or Deputy Village Clerk shall notify the individual of their
appointment. The chair of the respective committee shall also be notified of the individual’s
appointment. If required, the individual shall take the oath of office within 30 days of
appointment.
2. Members of each committee are expected to participate regularly in the meetings and activities
of their respective committee. Members who miss three meetings in a calendar year without
authorization from the committee chair shall eligible for removal.
3. Members of each committee are required to participate in the Village’s annual training program.
This training program includes, but is not limited to, sexual harassment prevention and workplace
violence prevention. Members who take this training elsewhere (e.g., at their place of
employment) may submit their training certificates annually in lieu of participating in the
Village’s training program. A member that does not supply proof of the required training by
December 31st of each year will be eligible for removal.
4. Members of the Planning Board and the Zoning Board of Appeals shall also be required to
complete four hours of training in accordance with the requirements outlined in Village Law § 7718 and § 7-712, respectively.
REMOVAL PROCESS FOR COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
1. Any committee member who is eligible for removal will be notified of such fact by the Village
Clerk or Deputy Village Clerk. Removal shall take effect immediately upon notification.
2. Any committee member may appeal their removal to the Village Manager within five days of
notification. The Village Manager shall confer with the Mayor to review the circumstances
around the removal. A decision on the appeal shall be made within 10 days of receipt.

3. Notwithstanding the above, the removal of Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals
members shall be governed by the procedure outlined in Village Law § 7-718 and § 7-712,
respectively.

