MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:30 AM Sunday, May 19, 2024 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coordinator)
Ashley Clemente

Absent:

Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): none
Announcements: our next meeting (June 23) will be our last before our summer recess.
In the CEC program, as of 5/15/24, Croton is still in 1st place with 14,500 points.
Kingston has 11,600, Hastings has 11,100, and Bedford has 10,500.
- Earth Day tabling
Thank you to all who staffed or otherwise helped our
Earth Day presence, and to Dave for his pics.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Work at both ends
continues. See 5/6/24 north end drone pic below.
HVRC (NYSERDA contractor on the CEC program)
asked for an August site visit for a group of CEC munis. Mayor Pugh agreed to act as
tour guide with Lindsay accompanying to answer tech questions.
One of Dave’s pics of progress at the station showed a vertical 4” tube that looked like
a downspout drain line sticking up next to a canopy’s pedestals. Sol said it connected
to the Village’s underground drainage system. Brian said such connection was not
authorized by the Village, Lindsay will follow up with Bryan Healy on the matter.
Washington firehouse net metering: For various reasons, Con Ed and NYPA had
resisted providing it. To push the issue, on 5/10/24 Lindsay submitted a formal
application (signed by Bryan Healy) to NYPA. It now appears to be moving forward.
Once accepted, Croton will be the first NYPA-served
muni to get net metering.
DPW solar parking canopy: Lindsay is assembling
a project description and Scope of Work (SOW)
pursuant to a RFP. When completed, we’ll meet with
DPW to develop the project and schedule the
process and installation.
1

Village electric accounts in community solar: An application was submitted in midMarch. Once bill savings appear, we get 300 CEC points, and the Village saves
~$20K a year. For months, we were blocked from enrolling street lighting accounts
(~7% of muni kWh, saving ~$2K/yr). On 5/13/24, Con Ed agreed to upgrade its billing
software to allow enrollment of such accounts to community solar. Once done, we will
be the first NYPA-served muni to do so.
- Heat Pumps
Harmon firehouse addition: on 5/1, Lindsay zoomed with Village staff and Sullivan
Architects on issues re: draft docs and equipment choices (e.g., gas-fired A/C). On
5/8, Jon and Dan specified a hybrid heat pump / gas-fired rooftop unit to replace the
Sullivan-specified gas-only A/C unit. By 5/9, the issues had been addressed. On 5/16,
DPW and CEG met at the firehouse to verify that the existing electric service and
panels were OK to accommodate load of the addition and installation of solar arrays.
Washington firehouse garage HPs: At Earth Day, Jon and Dan hashed out tech
issues on an electric boiler and controls to support the proposed six 9,000 Btuh HPs
and eliminate oil use at the site, pursuant to developing a SOW for a RFP on the work.
A concept document on the fully electric option was sent to Bryan Healy and Frank
Balbi on 5/15/24 for their review. The Village treasurer verified that funding for design
development is available from two unused $5K NYSERDA grants secured last year.
DPW HPs: The ASHRAE energy audit of the building arrived 5/17/24. It estimated the
cost to replace the four existing 26-year old A/C units with ASHPs at $52,500, much
lower than expected. Doing so would cut about 9 MT/yr of carbon emissions.
The audit’s most surprising finding was the low average occupancy of the facility:
rarely are there more than 4 people present at one time. We are checking that claim
with DPW. But some DPW employees now work remotely, while others are in the field
most of their workday. Mayor Pugh indicated that the Village has only 2 mechanics for
work on vehicles, so the audit may be correct. It could impact the viability of some
suggested measures, e.g., a HPWH. A detailed review of the audit is in process.
Residential HPs: After being awarded IRA funds in late April, NY State began
prepping its grant program for HPs. Retail rebates may be available later this year.
Doing so could help jumpstart our stalled promo effort for residential HPWHs.
- EV/EVSE
Our $150K DEC grant for EV chargers is finally moving forward. On 4/28, DEC’s
Gwenyth Widrick said the State’s new grant management software (SFS GM) is at last
OK for grant processing. We are standing by for instructions.
Next steps include contract signing and developing the SOW for an RFP to get bids
that will update our now 2-year old cost estimate. In light of the ~2-year delay since we
applied for the grant, we will ask to up the amount due to inflation, etc.
2

Depending on several factors, we may have enough small CEC grants (6 were won
earlier this year) to cover another 6 dual-port EV chargers at the train station.
- Financial and Budgeting Issues
Grant funding is in hand to cover the cost of the projects listed above. Development
will be pursued over the coming summer.
Len reviewed the federal Comeback Communities and DOE’s Energy Future Grant
(EFG) programs. Bottom line: both were focused on disadvantaged/LMI communities,
though Len did find that Croton might be able to compete for an EFG in the future. His
report is appended to these minutes.
- Other Reports
We await DEC’s review of our 4/2/24 re-certification submission for our Silver Climate
Smart Community (CSC) status. We were told to watch for an answer in late May. If
accepted, we will maintain our Silver certification until 2029 (when next it must be
renewed). Re-certification now will also secure another 1,400 CEC points.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
Committee member Dan Colombini was quoted extensively (5/17/24) in FacilitiesNet,
the online version of Building Operating Management magazine, regarding planning
and installation of EV chargers:
https://www.facilitiesnet.com/energyefficiency/article/Facilities-Managers-to-Lead-theCharge-in-Expanding-EV-Charging-Stations-20215?oly_enc_id=2682E5239256B1V&source=facility_insider&utm_source=facility_i
nsider&utm_campaign=fnnewsletter-2024&utm_medium=email
- New Business / Other Issues
We need to recruit a new committee member with electrical engineering or contractor
experience. Dave suggested Victor Conte of Conte Electric Co. of Ossining, who he
believed may (by now) have retired. Westchester County has a service that connects
retired professionals willing to provide pro bono advice as a community service. [To
that end, Lindsay enrolled the Committee in the www.volunteernewyork.org program
through which the County provides volunteers.] Mayor Pugh said there would no
problem if a new member was not a Croton resident. Lindsay will look into those
options.
Date for our next meeting (last before our summer recess) was set for Sunday, June

23 at 10:30 AM via zoom. Our next meeting thereafter will be Sept. 22.
Report on the Comeback Communities and DOE’s Energy Future Grant programs
3

Best wishes to you and our Sustainability Committee colleagues for a good meeting on Sunday.
Here’s some thoughts on two Biden Administration energy initiatives for local governments:
Comeback Communities
The Department of Treasury information below [for brevity, not herein included] is more of a
policy statement by the Administration than a specific announcement of grant availability. There
is good discussion of the Direct Pay option which was inaugurated in the inflation Reduction Act
(IRA), a breakthrough program which makes the value of tax credits available to non-tax paying
local governments in the form of cash. But most of the information on “Comeback Communities”
below, including a link to a major address by the Secretary of Treasury, refers to the
Administration’s efforts regarding “communities across the country characterized by high
poverty and population decline”.
That focus on distressed communities is present to an extent in the Direct Pay program but
does not prevent Croton’s effort to participate in it. Other programs, as we have come to know,
in both the IRA and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) treat “underserved communities” in
different ways. Some programs are exclusively for their benefit. Others adhere to Section 223 of
Executive Order14008 which established the Justice40 Initiative, directing that 40% of the
overall benefits of certain Federal investments – including investments in clean energy and
energy efficiency - be allocated to disadvantaged communities as defined by law.
While we should continue to be aggressive in seeking federal funding opportunities, we should
be aware that both recent laws and the policy direction of the Biden Administration may often
include program eligibility Croton will not meet.
DOE Energy Future Grants
A good example of what is discussed above is the DOE Energy Futures Grant [EFG]. The
Energy Future Grants (EFG) provides $27 million in financial and technical assistance to
support partnership efforts (including local governments) that will help scale local strategies that
increase resiliency and improve access to affordable clean energy. EFG seeks to ensure the
broad benefits of a clean energy economy—including health, economic development and jobs,
grid resilience and adaptability, and emissions reductions—flow to disadvantaged communities
and support Justice 40.
The first round of Energy Future Grants were announced on April 4th and can be viewed
at https://tinyurl.com/f7yd3asb. [A review of them found all to involve only planning, training,
education, etc. rather than “iron in the ground” installations; average grant was ~$500K]. While
the communities benefitting from Justice 40 are clearly present, there are good examples shown
of projects from communities which do not come under the 40% set-aside. Many of the projects
are regional or partnerships of a number of different entities coming together for the purpose of
this grant. There may be some potential in the next round for Croton to be an applicant directly
or through a consortium of different communities or organizations. I’ll be sure to keep an eye out
for the next round of Energy Future Grants so the Village can consider its options at that time.

4

