Planning Board Meeting Minutes
December 19th, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Rob Luntz
Ian W. Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Acting Chairman Steve Krisky called the Planning Board meeting of December 19th, 2023 to order at
8:01 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) Ordonez, Marco M&J Auto Repair 1 Corp., 485 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-2-91)
Amended Site Plan Approval for Existing Shed

The Public Hearing remains open from December 5th , 2023.
Carmel Riverside, LLC is the new owner of this property and submitted a list of six proposed
improvements to address the safety concerns at this property, specifically in the parking lot. The
proposed improvements were:
1) Installing a hatched striping area for the M & J Auto entrance
2) Installing new hatched striping for pedestrian access from side door of Straddles Gymnastics to
the front of the building
3) Installing new black aluminum 48' fencing from side door of Straddles Gymnastics approximately
20 feet towards the front of the Straddles to prevent pedestrians from walking through hatched
area
4) Installing new 4' bollards along hatched walkway
5) Installing a new striped walkway
6) Designating parking area for Straddles Gymnastics with signage
The Planning Board discussed the proposed improvements, and are glad that the new property owner is
willing to address the safety concerns, but they believe that the proposed improvements are not the best
way to achieve the goal of a safer parking lot.
Steve Krisky invited comments from the public, and James Picciano, owner of Straddles, spoke. James
Picciano reported that he met with Village Engineer Dan O'Connor and Village Board of Trustee Ian
Murtaugh at the site and during the site visit with Dan O'Connor and Trustee Murdaugh, they all
witnessed a car speeding into the parking lot while a mother and child were leaving Straddles.
James Picciano brought a photograph from 2015 when Straddles moved into this location and the gate
was locked and the parking lot striping was clear. Mr. Picciano stated that when M & J Auto Repair 1
Corp. moved into the neighboring tenant space, the application was heard over Zoom due to Covid

1

restrictions and Mr. Picciano stated at the time that he needed to have the gate locked and the opening
in the gate moved, which never happened.
James Picciano spoke with the new owner of the property who cleaned the place up. Steve Krisky noted
that he is glad that the property has a new owner who is willing to address the safety concerns, however,
there was agreement that the new owner's proposal is not the best way to address the many safety
concerns in the parking lot.
Eva Thaddeus supports requiring the existing gate to be locked, and having the opening to the gate
moved. Geoff Haynes added that the parking lot should have clear signage stating that there are
children crossing in the parking lot, something that makes it clear that you need to exert caution entering
the parking lot.
There was much discussion regarding parking spots and a crosswalk and bollards and ultimately it was
decided that Dan O'Connor would reach out to Croton Riverside, LLC, share the feedback from the
Planning Board and request an updated plan. Dan O'Connor will share that the Planning Board will be
looking for the following updates:
•
a) That the current gate to M & J Auto Repair 1 Corp be locked and a new entrance be made in
the fence north of the existing gate opening.
.
b) That a larger area of hatched striping be proposed in front of the main entrance to Straddles.
c) That extra bollards be provided.
d) That the parking spots in front of the locked gate be re-striped.
e) That signage be installed at the entrance from South Riverside Avenue.
The Public Hearing remains open.

3.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Metro Physical Therapy- 46 Maple Street (79.9-1-77) - Sign Permit Review

Metro Physical Therapy, located at 46 Maple Street recently had their business sign approved by the
VEB and the Planning Board. Sign company Letter Perfect Graphics of Port Jefferson Station, NY
submitted a second Sign Permit application for vinyl window coverings for this business that will require
Planning Board approval to modify the sign requirements in the Village's Zoning Code as stated in
Section 230-44(Q) which states that "The combination of permanent and temporary signage applied to
or placed within two feet of the interior of any given window shall be considered part of the signage in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Further, in no event shall permanent window signage
exceed 25% of the window on or within which it is located." Section 230-44(Q) gives the Planning Board
authority to modify the requirements "If strict compliance of said code would cause unusual hardship or
difficulty because of the specific circumstances of a particular situation."
Tom Nagel of Letter Perfect Graphics joined the Planning Board meeting via Zoom. Earlier this evening,
Tom Nagel participated in another Zoom call with Dan O'Connor and members of the VEB regarding this
same application. Dan O'Connor shared a letter submitted by Letter Perfect Graphics detailing how their
client, Metro Physical Therapy has over 30 offices all with the same layout and design. By report,
patients have commented that they feel comfortable in the office with the windows being covered so that
they are not visible to people walking by. All Metro Physical Therapy offices have their windows
covered. Tom Nagel's letter also said that because the film is perforated, police could see inside if they
needed to by shining a light against the window.
On the Zoom call regarding this application, the VEB recommended removing the signage from around
the door, using a black background for the lettering and lastly, using a smaller font size for the lettering in
the window signs.

2

Acting Chairperson Steve Krisky is concerned about setting a precedent for waiving this sign
requirement. Additionally, Steve Krisky would also like to ask the Croton Police if they have concerns
about the windows being covered. John Ghegan asked if putting shades on the windows would be an
option, but the Planning Board did not want to interfere with Metro Physical Therapy's ability to brand.
Tom Nagel noted that when they go with the black background and reduce the size of the lettering, the
sign will only cover about 40% of the windows.
A decision was made to table a vote on this resolution so that Dan O'Connor can reach out to Croton PD
to ask if there were any issues with the window coverings. Tom Nagle of Letter Perfect Graphics will
again attend the next Planning Board meeting via Zoom .
b) Maple Commons, 43-45 Maple Street (78.12-3-3) Review and Approval of proposed sign
Jeremy Regan, Development Coordinator from Regan Development joined the Planning Board meeting
via Zoom. Jeremy Regan stated that they are trying to accommodate the Planning Board's suggestions
and they made the sign a little smaller, but they do want their entire logo displayed. Geoff Haynes asked
about the color choices on the sign as the color set is different from the actual buildings and Geoff
Haynes wondered if the sign could look more in tune to the complex. Jeremy Regan said that this
suggestion would be taken into consideration, and that the actual sign would be more muted. Steve
Krisky suggested changing the white of the sign posts to either grey or light blue, and Jeremy Regan
stated that he would be happy to make that change. The Planning Board still thinks that the sign is quite
large. Jeremy Regan stated that they already shaved a little less than a foot off. There is no lighting on
the sign.
Steve Krisky had several suggestions regarding the sign including changing the lettering on the website
to an upper/lower case combination with only the first letter of each word capitalized, making it easier to
read, and removing the equal housing and handicapped accessible logos. Jeremy Regan said that he
is not sure if the handicapped and equal housing logos are required, but he will find out. The Planning
Board also wondered if the sign was placed far enough back from the roadway so if someone was
exiting Maple Commons, the sign would not hinder their view.
Jeremy Regan offered to look into all of the concerns raised by the Planning Board . In summary, the
Planning Board made the following suggestions:
a)
b)
c)
d)

Changing the white painted pvc cladding and aluminum tube sign posts to a grey or light blue
Consider coordinating sign color set with the building color set
Consider making the sign 10% smaller
Have the website name written in upper/lowercase letters with only the first letter of each word
capitalized
e) Removing the equal housing and handicap accessible logos
f) Clarification on the lettering if it will be raised or if the font is shadowed
g) Clearly show on a revised plan that the placement of the sign will not impede driver's vision
pulling out of the property
Geoff Haynes asked Jeremy Regan for an update on the project overall and Jeremy Regan reported that
they are starting on the drywall in building two and doing interior electric work on building one. Regan
Development has had a lot of interest in these apartments, they have received many phone calls and are
taking people's names and numbers. The lottery period will run for 90 days after the marketing begins.
The lottery will be live-streamed which is a NY State requirement.
Jeremy Regan will speak to his team, bring back all the Planning Board suggestions, and submit a
revised sign plan .

3) APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes December 5th, 2023

3

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of December 5th, 2023, as
amended, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with Rob Luntz being
absent.
4) ENGINEER'S REPORT
•

•

•

Geoff Haynes brought up the fact that the bus stop in front of Maple Commons on Maple Street
had a lot of graffiti on it. Dan O'Connor reported that DPW had already been notified about the
graffiti.
Steve Krisky requested to bring up a new business item. Every time there is a big storm,
Senasqua Park is completely flooded and disappears, so Steve Krisky wondered if the Planning
Board could request that the Village Board of Trustees look at this park long term. Years ago, the
parking lot at the train station was raised, and Steve Krisky was wondering if something similar
could be done for Senasqua Park, which he would hate to lose to climate change. Could
something be done to "future-proof' this area for future generations of Crotonites? Apparently,
Senator Pete Harckham just got approval for some climate change projects, so there may be
money available for a project like this.
Geoff Haynes asked what could be done to make for better traffic flow in the area of Maple Street
and Municipal Place as the traffic light has not been updated or reviewed since 1995. Dan
O'Connor said that the DOT is looking at that intersection as a long-term capital plan. The Village
will have to keep letting DOT know that this is an area of concern. Dan O'Connor said that he
would speak to Village Manager Bryan Healy to get a sense of where this item is on the DOT's
list.

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:37 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
***Minutes approved, as amended on January 2 nd , 2024 by a vote of 4-0 with John Ghegan being
absent**

4

