Conservation Advisory Council
Minutes for January 14, 2025
Present: John Ealer, Eva Thaddeus, Halle Clarke, Rachel Bernstein, Brian Pugh, Sherry Horowitz
Absent: Lance Amato, Nora Nicholson (Trustee liaison), Steve Krisky (Planning Board liaison)
Guests: Ed Reily, Gary Eisinger, Cathy Hamel
Minutes submitted by Eva Thaddeus
1. Approval of minutes from previous meeting: unanimous
2. 2024 Year End Report – Mayor Pugh confirmed our report was appreciated by the Board
of Trustees. Committee members thanked John for his excellent report compiled at
short notice.
3. Trails – David Daly has agreed to step up to lead the subcommittee and is willing to
apply as a member of the CCAC as well. Because of a prior commitment he will not be
able to attend Tuesday meetings in the summer. The committee thinks this would be
OK.
4. Natural Resource Inventory – John attended a meeting last week in Cortlandt to discuss
how to improve our joint RFP so that we can find a consultant who will be willing to take
our NRI on.
5. Dark Skies – Last week, Lance shared with us Cortlandt’s new Dark Skies law as a
potential model for local legislation. John will ask Lance if he is willing to do a one-page
review of Cortlandt’s law and recommendations for how it should be modified for
Croton.
6. Mayor’s Monarch Pledge – Eva will take the pledge survey to the garden club and make
recommendations to the Mayor about which actions should be taken.
Garden Club - John proposes that we request $80 in the budget for the pollinator
plaques. The committee is in agreement.
7. CLEAN – John says, “As you’re driving into Croton from Foodtown, look at garbage on
the side of the road both before and after the Croton line. I think you’ll notice the
difference.”
8. Repair Café – March 29th. Community Room reserved. Sherry is organizing. Lance is on
the organizing committee, and Halle is volunteering to help as well. Sherry says first
step is to get in touch with all the coaches and ask them to save the date. Publicity can
come later. John has all of Janet’s materials and will make sure that Sherry gets them.
Sherry asks that committee members try to volunteer at the event if possible because it
is very busy and help is needed.
9. John is organizing along with help from Ellen Siracusa and some help from Janet. Earth
Day is scheduled for Saturday, May 3, 2025 at Senasqua with a rain date of May 10. The
organizers of the jazz hoedown on the same weekend have requested that we consider
moving our event back to Vassallo so that visitors can walk between the two events.
The committee unanimously agrees that we have good reasons to be at Senasqua and
we should stay there. Ellen, who participated in the meeting by phone, agrees as well.

John will be back in touch with the organizers of the other event to discuss further how
we might support each others’ events.
John is starting to think about activities to make our Earth Day more interactive. Some
committee members are volunteering for different parts of the organizing:
Halle – Facebook
Rachel – print publicity
Eva – outreach to schools
Sherry – outreach to gallery
Within next week – brainstorm interactive activities and share with the committee
(recycling activities, Recyclopedia, driftwood sculptures, oysters, seining, rock
painting. . . )
Traditionally the $2000 has been divided among Chris Letz (fish), musicians, other
entertainers, signs, ad in Gazette.

