Police Advisory Committee Minutes
May 15, 2025
Attendance: Carolyn Whiting, Chief Nikitopoulos, Teri Lukin, Jim Miller, Ian
Murtaugh, and Detective Fielding.
Absent: Miles Kafka, Marie Considine, Paige Jones, Edwin Jandres, Nora
Nicholson, Marie Slippen.
1. Approval of Minutes
• Motion to approve by Teri Lukin
• Motion seconded by Ian Murtaugh.
• All in favor.
2. Surveys to give to oﬃcers.
3. Carolyn Whiting will follow up with the PBA to determine if the PBA would
like to participate in a PAC survey.
4. Back to School night
• Teri Lukin will contact School Superintendent Stephen Walker about
the PD, possibly Oﬃcer Ward, giving a presentation to parents at CET
back to school night.
5. Traﬃc tickets
• Carolyn Whiting asked Chief Nikitopoulos if the number of traﬃc
tickets issued has gone down since the 2020 Police Reform Task Force
recommendation of no monthly quotas or expectations.
• Chief Niktitopoulos will review the data but stressed that quotas,
expectations, or other means of encouraging ticket writing is not
permitted by law.
6. Survey in October
• The committee decided that we will not give another survey in
October but wait until October 2026.
7. Press releases.
• Recent press releases were discussed, and the PAC was pleased to
see them released in a timely manner. Chief Nikitopoulos stated that

the PAC’s request for timely press releases encouraged the
department to ensure such information was shared with the
community in a timely manner.
8. Red Light Cameras
• The Village has asked for permission from the State to have the ability
to install red light cameras within the Village.
• Carolyn Whiting suggested that this is an issue that should have been
discussed with the PAC to gauge public sentiment prior to asking for a
new law.
• Carolyn Whiting will send a letter to the Manager and the Board
expressing the PAC’s concerns that the PAC should have been
consulted and the possibility of red light cameras should have been a
part of the January 2025 survey.
9. Ossining PD Town Hall May 29, 7 pm Ossining library
• Carolyn Whiting and Jim Miller will attend the Ossining PAC and
Ossining PD meeting.
10.Croton PAC Town Hall June 3, 2025, 6 pm Meeting to last approximately 60
minutes.
11.Meeting adjourned at 7:45

