MEETING SUMMARY

Croton IDEA Advisory 4/04
4 April 2025 / 2:45 – 4:15 PM / Virtual
Pride Flag Raising Ceremony / June 1​
Among developments, the subcommittee connected with LGBTQ+ community
groups. Plans for refreshments and speakers are in the works.
Juneteenth / June 19
●​ 2 – 4 PM Vassallo Park (in case of inclement weather: The Grand)​
The subcommittee has lined up a speaker, a storyteller, and singers. More
speakers, a drum workshop, and a food truck are in the works.
●​ 4:30 – 6:30 PM at The Grand
●​ After-hours Open Mic at The Black Cow
Information Gathering for Disability Programs & Advocacy​
The committee discussed the inquiries and suggestions surfaced during the
subcommittee’s conversation with Croton SEPTA members (Special Education
Parent-Teacher Association). The committee immediately took up a few queries:
●​ An emergency registry for extra help during a power outage​
The Village has a database for letting safety agencies know of special needs: ​
Croton Special Needs Database.
●​ Creation of an accessibility list of Croton’s outdoor spaces​
The subcommittee has started research to post on the Village website.
●​ “Chill Spot” during village events for those with sensory processing challenges​
Planned for IDEA’s Summerfest tent
Later this month the subcommittee will meet with a staff member of the Westchester
Institute for Human Development. ​
Immigrant Protections
●​ The webinar went smoothly thanks to the Croton Free Library partner and upstander
community speakers.
●​ Donated red cards are available at the Municipal Building and Croton Free Library.
●​ The subcommittee is working on a screening of The Arrivals.
Spanish Translation for Recreation and Sports Info
●​ Earlier this month the team shared Village summer camp Spanish language
materials with school staff. (After the meeting the subcommittee also shared a
new Spanish language Spring/Summer Program Brochure with school staff.)
●​ Subcommittee reported on the Village’s increasing efforts to make materials
more accessible to non-native English speakers and the need to increase
publicity of these resources.
●​ Work continues on a database of extracurricular programs.
[next page]

New: Village Banner Program
Pending funding, the committee agreed to pursue the creation of Village banners
celebrating Croton’s diversity. The committee will consider dates recognized by the Board
of Trustees’ 2020 resolution (#78-2020).
Ongoing and Future Programs
●​ Croton Welcomes Everyone scheduled for re-launch by June 1
●​ Lunar New Year celebration in February 2026

