Planning Board Meeting Minutes
May 21st, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of May 21st, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS:
a) Referral from Village Board to review a Special Permit Application from Smoke Town
Discount to operate a retail store at 50 Maple Avenue (79.09-1-30)

Attorney Robert Corke was present in support of this application. The applicant is requesting a five-year
extension of the Special Permit for Smoke Town Discount. Geoff Haynes confirmed that the last special
permit for this business was for issued for three years, and thought that five years was a long time.
Attorney Robert Corke responded that if there was a problem at any time, then the applicant would take
care of it. Dan O'Connor advised the group that there have been a few violations of NYS Law Section
1399-DD-1, which states that "Public display of tobacco products and electronic cigarette advertisements
and smoking paraphernalia is prohibited within 1,500 feet of a school" as there were nicotine product
signs in the windows. Dan O'Connor suggested that the business adopt a written policy whereby the
business owner would be responsible to approve any sign that was placed in the window. Attorney
Robert Corke stated that he would work with his client on a procedure manual, and submit it to the
Village Board.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to recommend approving the request for the renewal of a special permit
for Smoke Town Discount, located at 50 Maple Avenue, for a period of three years and with the
additional conditions listed in the resolution, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.
b) Referral from the Village Board to Review the draft Local Law No. 7 of 2024, amending
Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to add new Article
IVB, Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Inter-Municipal Watershed Protection Overlay District
(WPOD).
Geoff Haynes asked about the intent for this local law and Dan O'Connor said that it is to protect the
watershed and essentially, protect Croton on Hudson's water supply. The wellfield is surrounded by
land that is not in the Village, so the Village benefits from the other municipalities that will adopt similar
legislation (Town of Cortlandt, New Castle, Ossining, and the Village of Ossining).
Dan O'Connor stated that there are stormwater hotspots, or facilities that would generate potentially
more pollution, and gave an example of an auto repair shop on South Riverside Avenue.

1

The Planning Board had several questions regarding Overlay Zoning Districts. It was noted that there are
stormwater hotspots or facilities that would generate potentially more pollution. There are also additional
watersheds in the Village. A Wetland definition would also be helpful for clarification. The Planning
Board thought that some existing businesses would need to apply for Wetland Permits. The Planning
Board asked about lawn chemicals and if 25 linear feet was enough of a buffer, as listed in Section 23020.14( 13). The Planning Board also noted that there are enforcement issues here.
Overall, the Planning Board thought that sections of this law should be rewritten to clarify intent.

3.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Berger, Eric, 213 Cleveland Drive (68.18-1-65) - Accessory Dwelling Unit Application
Eric Berger was again present in support of the application. The applicant said that he came down in
size to 800 square feet in the floor plan by making the second bedroom a bit smaller and was able to
condense everything and keep everything at the same time, the biggest problem being the hallways,
which are a little tight.
Chairman Luntz stating that the Planning Board received a couple of pieces of correspondence from
neighbors enquiring as to how the number of 800 square feet was calculated. Chairman Luntz thought
that the applicant was generally in compliance with the ADU regulations, but the porch makes the
proposed structure look larger. There was also a question about the stairs, leading to the basement and
the applicant provided an architectural drawing entitled "Cellar Plan" which shows the cellar area as
unfinished, unconditioned storage/utility space. A copy of this drawing will be added to the application.
It was noted that for this ADU to be within the size limits, the porch would need to remain unclosed. The
applicant could, at a later date, apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a variance to enclose the porch.
Steve Krisky thought that, as presented, the accessory dwelling unit is more like a single-family home
with two bedrooms and two bathrooms. Chairman Luntz said that this is not subdividing the property, as
that would create another tax lot that could be sold independently. Eva Thaddeus stated that the ADU
law does not say that you can not have two bedrooms.
Chris Caulfield of 1 Jacoby Street spoke and said that his biggest concern is the mass of the building,
close to 1200 square feet. Chris Caulfield is also concerned about his deck which is close to where the
driveway for the ADU would be. Mr. Caulfield feels that the burden of this new structure would be
carried more by him than his neighbor who is proposing the ADU.
Matt Berger of 5 O'Reilly Court was next to speak. Matt Berger stated that the applicant is his brother
and that overall, the building meets the code of the Village, is being designed with the neighbors in mind.
They tried to make it attractive, safe and for people with disabilities such as skin cancer, where they can
have a covered space to sit. Matt Berger said that the trees that are proposed near the property line
grow quickly.
Chairman Luntz stated that the Planning Board recommended that the applicant meet with his architect
and take another look at the screened in porch, and make it more transparent, and less visibly massive.
The applicant asked if he was in violation of anything, and stated that he spent extra money to have the
architect design something that fits in with the neighborhood.
Virginia Berger, the applicant's mother stated that the family that is sending letters does not want the
building there at all. Steve Krisky clarified that his comments about the proposed ADU had nothing to do
with the neighbor's remarks.
Chairman Luntz asked the applicant to take the plan back and make some accommodations. The
applicant asked if the porch had floor to ceiling screens, would it be acceptable and Chairman Luntz said
that he believed that it would.

2

b) Munoz, Joyce, Allure Auto Spa - 351 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-1-65) - Request for
Waiver of Sign Permit Regulations.
The applicant's request for a waiver of the sign permit regulations was reviewed by the VEB. The
Planning Board and the VEB are in agreement to deny the waiver for the "Open" banner as a banner is a
prohibited sign under Section 230-44-M (5) of the Zoning Code.
The Planning Board and the VEB are in agreement that the signs on the side of the building and along
the southern property line, as shown in the photographs, are acceptable and can remain and the
Planning Board hereby waives the sign requirements and approves the two signs.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the resolution for the application for a waiver of sign permit
regulations with the two conditions listed on the resolution, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion
passed, 5-0.

4.

Discussion - Adopting Planning Board Rules and Procedures

A decision was made to table this discussion until the next Planning Board meeting.

5.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes May 7th, 2024

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of May 7th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 4-0, with Steve Krisky abstaining as he was absent
on May 7th , 2024.

6.

ENGINEER'S REPORT

The Planning Board spoke briefly about the ShopRite parking lot, prompted by an email from Village
Manager Bryan Healy asking if the Planning Board could enumerate their specific concerns with the site
plan conditions. The Planning Board reiterated that some improvements could reduce accidents,
including restriping the crosswalk, adding a "fog line" going down the side of the driveway to make it safer
for pedestrians and cyclists, among others. Dan O'Connor stated that he was going to meet with the
landlord of the property.

7.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
10:12 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
**Minutes approved, as amended on June 4th , 2024 with a motion by John Ghegan, seconded by Geoff
Haynes, and carried by a vote of 4-0 with Rob Luntz being absent**

3

Chairman
Robert Luntz

Members
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Village of

Allomey

Planning Board
Slanley H Kellerhouse Mun1c1pal Building
One Van Wyck S1ree1
Crolon-on -Hudson. NY 10520 2501
eng,neenngra.crolononhudson ny gov

Lmda Whitehead

Vi/lag,• Engineer
Daniel F O'Connor, P.E., CEO

Secre1ary
Karen Slaplelon

To: Mayor Pugh and Village Board of Trustees
From: Robert Luntz, Planning Board Chairman
Re: Smoke Town Discount Special Permit Renewal
Date: May 22, 2024

At its regularly scheduled meeting on Tuesday, May 21 st , 2024, the Planning Board
reviewed the referral from the Village Board for the application of the renewal of a Special
Permit for Smoke Town Discount to operate a retail store at 50 Maple Street.
The Planning Board recommends that the Village Board renew the special permit for
Smoke Town Discount with the following conditions:
1) That the Special Permit should again be issued for a three year period.
2) The Village Engineer stated that there have been a few violations of NYS Law
Section 1399-00-1 which states "Public display of tobacco product and electronic
cigarette advertisements and smoking paraphernalia is prohibited within 1,500 feet of
a school," due to nicotine product signs displayed in the windows. To ensure better
compliance with this law, the Planning Board recommends that a condition be added
to the Special Permit that requires the business to adopt a written policy and
procedure governing the installation of window signs. The policy and procedure
should require that the business owner approve every sign installed in the windows
or door to ensure compliance with NY State Public Health Law Section 1399-DD-1
(attached) and the Village sign regulations, Section 230-44(0) of the Village Code,
which limit the sign coverage in each window to 25% maximum.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed an application for a Waiver of Sign Permit Regulations on
Tuesday, May 7th, 2024, and Tuesday, May 2P1, 2024, submitted by Joyce Munoz on behalf of
Allure Auto Spa, hereafter known as "the Applicant," on property located at 351 South Riverside
Avenue. The property is in the C-2 General Commercial and Harmon/South Riverside Gateway
Zoning Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13
Block 1 Lot 65; and
WHEREAS, The Village Zoning Code regulates signage including Freestanding Signs and Banners.
As per section 230-44-M (5), of the Village Code, "Banners, flags, strings of balloons, flags or lights,
or similar outdoor advertising, except on a temporary basis with respect to the opening, reopening,
or remodeling of the business (that is, limited to maximum duration of 45 days).
W~EREAS, the applicant is requesting to keep the freestanding banner for her small business that
is not easily visible from the street; and
WHEREAS, the applicant is also looking to legalize two existing, non-conforming signs on the side
of the building and along the southern property line; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has the authority to grant approval for modifications of the sign
requirements in the Village's Zoning Code as stated in Section 230-44(0) if strict compliance with
the requirements of said code would cause unusual hardship or difficulty because of the specific
circumstances of a particular situation; and
WHEREAS, the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment, (VEB) reviewed the application to waive
the sign permit regulations for the banner and the existing signs; and
I

WHEREAS, the modification of signage requirements is considered a Type II Action under the State
Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board finds that the modifications listed
below will be consistent with the spirit and intent of Chapter 230 of the Village Code. The Planning
Board hereby modifies the signage requirements in section 230-44-0 of the Village Code as follows:
1. The Planning Board and the VEB are in agreement to DENY the waiver for the "Open"
banner, and the Planning Board hereby denies the waiver of the sign requirement prohibiting the
"Open" banner since it is a prohibited sign under Section 230-44-M (5) of the Zoning Code.
2. The Planning Board and the VEB are in agreement that the signs on the side of the building
and along the southern property line, as shown in the photographs are acceptable and can remain
and the Planning Board hereby waives the sign requirements and approves these two signs.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on May 21st, 2024.

