Planning Board Meeting Minutes
February 21st, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison,
Eva Thaddeus
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of February 21th, 2023 to order at 8:02 p.m.

2. PUBLIC HEARING

a) Ella 1, LLC, 193-195 Grand St. (68.17-4-58) Site Plan Approval for three new
one-bedroom apartments
Geoff Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the
motion carried, 4-0.
The Planning Board discussed the special permit for a non-conforming use that the Village
Board issued for this property. Per a previous discussion, Geoff Haynes asked the applicant if
he planned to install conduits for electric vehicle charging stations and the applicant said that
he would. The applicant also agreed to make the building solar ready.
Chairman Luntz opened the meeting to public comments. Nancy Rivera whose parents live at
199 Grand Street spoke and stated that her parents live next door to the applicant's property
and their driveway separates the properties. Ms Rivera is worried that if the applicant puts his
proposed patio right up to the property line, she will not be able to open her car door when it is
parked in the driveway. Right now, Ms. Rivera cannot get her large car all the way through the
driveway to the parking area that is behind her parent's house at 199 Grand Street. The
applicant said that he will try to be helpful and will favor the wall in a little away from Ms.
Rivera's property. There was much discussion about possible ways to help the situation.
Steve Krisky asked if Ms. Rivera could be given a designated parking spot on Grand Street, but
Dan O'Connor stated that Grand Street is public parking, so you could not assign a spot as
parking is on a first come, first served basis. Again, the applicant stated that he would like to
help the situation, but he does not want to change the site plan. Steve Krisky said that he was
not comfortable with Ms. Rivera blocking the sidewalk and Geoff Haynes stated that if the PB
members ask for the wall to move in a little, they are facilitating someone blocking the
sidewalk. Dan O'Connor says elsewhere in the Village people have to park on the street and
apply for a seasonal parking pass during the snow.
There were no further public comments and Steve Krisky made a motion to close the public
hearing, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 4-0.

1

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the resolution for site plan approval for 193-195
Grand Street with two additional conditions:
1) That conduits will be installed for future electric vehicle charging stations and
2) That during improvement work, the building will be made ready for future solar
installation
seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion passed, 4-0.

3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Matra Group, LLC- 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-14&15) Final
Consolidated Subdivision Application
Dan O'Connor opened this discussion by stating that in the Fall of 2022, the Planning Board
issued site plan and preliminary subdivision approval for this property. Since then, the applicant
worked with a surveyor to develop a map that will be filed with the Westchester County Clerk's
Office in order to combine the two tax lots into one parcel.
When the consolidation subdivision map was originally sent in, Dan O'Connor had a few
comments; there was a mistake in the acreage that was corrected, the surveyor needed to add
signature lines for both the Town of Cortlandt receiver of taxes as well as the Village of Croton
on Hudson Treasurer, both of whom must sign off on the map prior to it being filed. Also, there
was a typo and the letter "R" was missing from the word treasurer. It was noted that the
applicant wants to keep lot 15 which is the one that was built on and lot 14 is an empty lot.
Additionally, there were some comments from Dan O'Connor regarding the 20-foot Right of Way
easement. The applicant believes that a Briggs Lane easement was extinguished. Attorney
Brian Sinsabaugh of Zarin- Steinmetz states that the reason they believe that the easement was
extinguished, is that it was shown on a 1921 map, subsequent to that, US Route 9 was placed
in between Briggs Lane and this property ( 1380 Albany Post Road) pursuant to part of the
condemnation action that allowed the construction of Route 9. The purpose of the easement is
satisfied through different alternatives and routes and is extinguished as per the applicant's
understanding.
Brian Sinsabaugh asked the Planning Board if they had any questions and Geoff Haynes asked
if the easement was granted by the Village of Croton on Hudson and Dan O'Connor said that it
was not. Dan O'Connor went on to say that it is before the Planning Board because the
Planning Board will approve the final subdivision map and has review authority over what is on
the map and if the easement is extinguished by law, then that is a good note to have on the
map. It would be good for the record. Geoff Haynes asked if paperwork was filed regarding the
extinction of this easement and Brian Sinsabaugh replied that the eminent domain process was
initiated by the government to construct Route 9 and they would have filed paperwork. Dan
O'Connor said that the Planning Board would want to see some written information with backup
documents showing that the easement has been extinguished prior to the chairman signing the
consolidation subdivision map.

2

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve a resolution for Matra Group regarding a property in
the Village of Croton on Hudson (67.10-2-14&15) for consolidation subdivision of two existing
lots and adding the condition that before signing the resolution, the chairman would request to
see documents showing the easement being extinguished, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the
motion carried, 4-0.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Draft Minutes February 21st, 2023
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of February 7th , 2023, as
amended, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0.

5. NON-AGENDA DISCUSSION ITEMS
Rob Luntz made a formal request for an executive session with counsel prior to the next
Planning Board meeting. Chairman Luntz would like clarification of the boundaries relating to
Planning Board members adding items to the agenda and having them removed by either the
Village Manager or Village Attorney and if there is a procedure by which the Planning Board can
add items to the agenda ahead of a meeting so that they can include them in a public
discussion of Planning Board issues.
Steve Krisky asked about the status of the meeting with the Board of Trustees regarding ADUs
that was tentatively scheduled for March 2nd • but the meeting was not confirmed at this time.

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at
9:19 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

Minutes approved, as amended 3/7/21 by a vote of 5-0.

3

1
RESOLUTION
FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL
WHEREAS, The Matra Group, has applied to the Planning Board for Subdivision Plat Approval on a
property located at 1380 Albany Post Road in the Limited Office 0-1 Zoning and North End Gateway
Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67 .10 Block 2
Lots 14 and 15; and
WHEREAS, the subdivision being proposed is a consolidation subdivision of two existing lots into one
lot with a proposed three-story building consisting of 29 apartments; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act, this application is
considered an Unlisted Action under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA) and a
Negative Declaration was issued by the Village Board (Lead Agency) on March 7, 2022; and
WHEREAS, on August 15, 2022, Village Board issued a special permit for multi-family use subject to
certain conditions as stated on the special permit approval; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing before the Planning Board was opened for the subdivision application
on Tuesday September 27, 2022 and closed on Tuesday October 11 , 2022; and
WHEREAS, on October 28 th , 2022, the Planning Board approved a resolution granting preliminary
subdivision approval
WHEREAS, under section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving authority
for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and hereby approves the Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan, subject to the conditions specified in the resolution of amended site plan
approval; and
WHEREAS, a final consolidated subdivision plat, prepared by Joseph R. Link, LS., New York State
Licensed Land Surveyor, dated February 7th , 2023 was submitted to the Planning Board for final
subdivision approval.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted
by The Matra Group for a two-lot consolidated subdivision of property located at 1380 Albany Post
Road, as shown on the final subdivision map prepared by Joseph R. Link, LS., dated February 7th ,
2023 subject to the following conditions:

1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the final consolidation subdivision plat and consolidation deed be filed in the Office of the
Westchester County Clerk prior to a building permit being granted for the proposed building.
3. That, a final subdivision plan acceptable for filing in the Westchester County Clerk's Office and
addressing the above items be prepared. Said plat shall include all required notes,
certifications, etc. as required by applicable agencies.

2

4. That, prior to the Planning Board Chairman signing the plat, documentation will be submitted
that the 20-foot ROW easement is extinguished.
5. That the typo on the Consolidation Subdivision Map prepared by JRL Land Surveying P.C. be
corrected for the signature line to read Village of Croton on Hudson, TreasureR.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that, as part of the Final Subdivision Plat approval process, the
Applicant shall obtain the necessary approval from the Westchester County Department of Health.
Evidence of approval by the Westchester County Department of Health shall be in the form of the
Department of Health's endorsement of the Final Subdivision Plat.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Rob Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus (Absent)
Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried by a vote of 4 to 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on February 21st, 2023.

RESOLUTION

Ella 1, LLC has applied for Site Plan Approval for the property located at 193-195 Grand Street in
the RB Two-Family Zoning District and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 68.17 Block 4 Lot 58 to convert the existing mixed-use building, a
nonconforming use, to an all-residential building with five apartments, another nonconforming
use;and
WHEREAS, this is a Site Plan for approval three new one-bedroom apartments; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA); and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 200 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was opened and closed on February 21 st , 2023, and
WHEREAS, at the January 9, 2023 Village Board meeting, the Village Board of Trustees
approved the request for a special permit to convert the existing mixed-use building, a nonconforming use, to an all-residential building with five apartments, another nonconforming use,
subject to certain conditions as stated on the special permit approval; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Site Plan application, as shown on Drawings
prepared by Gregory Caccioppoli, P.E., dated December 27th, 2022, and last revised on
February 15th , 2023, entitled "Existing Conditions Plan" Sheet E-1, "Proposed Site Plan," Sheet P1, "Porch Details," Sheet PD-1, "Utility Plan," Sheet U-1, "Standard Details," Sheet SD-1, "First
Floor Floor Plan," Sheet A-1, "Elevation Views," Sheet A-2 and "Proposed Renovation to Front of
Structure," Sheet 6, last revised on December 19th , 2022 other documents submitted in support of
the site plan application, be approved subject to the following conditions:

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
That, all conditions specified in the Special Permit issued by the Village Board on January
9th, 2023 are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
That, the plans submitted with the building permit application substantially comply with the
site plan, architectural drawings and exterior renderings submitted with the application.
That conduits will be installed for future electric vehicle charging stations
That during improvement work, the building will be made ready for future solar installation.

Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and
void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the
expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus (Absent)
Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, by a vote
of4-0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on February 21 st , 2023

