MEETING SUMMARY

Croton IDEA Advisory 2/07
07 February 2025 / 2:45 – 4:15 PM / Municipal Building Small Conference Room
Attending: Adriana, Cristina, Faith, Kio, Kyla, Marlena, Nora, Sarah, Sherry, Veronica,
and Will
Community Updates
●​ Croton Schools
○​ The fall student survey results are in (including questions on feeling
included and safe). See reports from the Feb. 4 BOE Work Session.
○​ A recent tech workshop presented communications and registration
applications to ELL families. (*See last item about IDEA follow-up)
○​ Mar. 28: The community is invited to A Taste of Culture (formerly
Cultural Night) at CET. This year, 31 families signed up to represent 20
cultures.
●​ Croton Business Council
○​ February meeting has been postponed to Mar. 10
○​ Planning a village Hoedown in May
●​ Email CrotonRainbowClub@gmail.com if you’re interested in joining the local
group for LGBTQ+ families with kindergarten – 4th-grade students (older kids
welcome).
●​ Mar. 29: Repair Cafe
●​ May 3: Croton Earth Day celebration
Croton Welcomes Everyone
●​ The new Village lawyers have reservations about CoHWE.
●​ IDEA subcommittee requested a meeting with the Village & lawyers to find a
solution.
June Programs Teams were formed to explore and coordinate the following
programs:
●​ Pride flag-raising ceremony – date TBD
●​ Summerfest – 6/8
●​ Juneteenth – 6/19
Youth Representatives
●​ IDEA sent application guidelines to students who signed up at the CHHS
Volunteer Fair (10/8), and CHHS counselors shared those guidelines with all
juniors and seniors.
●​ The subcommittee will complete the selection process before next month’s
meeting.

Immigrant Issues
●​ Procedure & Policy
○​ IDEA Advisory Memo 01/15/25 urged the Village to adopt a strong and
detailed policy regarding local law enforcement and ICE.
○​ A written procedure from the Croton Police Dept. (guided by County
Act 19-2018) is expected next week.
○​ Resolution from BOT soon to follow
○​ BOT is also considering a public service announcement featuring a
Spanish-speaking Croton Police officer
●​ Business Support: IDEA Advisory Memo 02/04/25 recommended distributing
to all Croton businesses “What to Do if Immigration Comes to Your Workplace”
by the National Employment Law Project & National Immigration Law Center
(2025). Village and lawyers are currently reviewing the recommendation.
●​ Webinar: The team plans a virtual forum co-hosted with Croton Free Library.
The forum's purpose is to address Croton residents’ questions and concerns.
Attending members agreed that the mayor, Croton Police Dept, and schools
should be represented on the panel.
Program on Disability
●​ The team will meet with a special ed teacher / Disability community advocate
to discuss programs to increase awareness and support the community.
●​ Discussion included the need for increased public recognition of invisible
disabilities.
*Multi-Language Rec & Sports Info
An IDEA team will complement the school’s effort to make program and registration
material more accessible. This group will help gather and advocate for
multi-language recreation material from public and private organizations.
Ideas for Next Programs
●​ Lunar New Year (2026) – coordinated by IDEA or recommended to the Rec.
Dept.
●​ The Ecuadorian Festival was discussed. It’s already planned for Cortlandt’s new
space in Verplank.

