Planning Board Meeting Minutes
January 21, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus (Absent)

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Daniel Pozin, Village Attorney
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Bryan Healy, Village Manager
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of January 21, 2025 to order at 8:30 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS:
a) Carmel Riverside, LLC, 425 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-2-91) Change of Use for
One Tenant Space to Retail Glass & Mirror Company

Property owner Andrew Cortese, and Mirage Mirror & Glass owner Brandon Count were present in
support of the application. Mirage Mirror & Glass are currently operating in Ossining, NY, but want to
move their business to the empty tenant space at 425 South Riverside Avenue as the space is smaller,
and better suited for their current needs. The property owner is offering a three-year lease, which
Mirage Mirror and Glass agree to. This tenant space is on the opposite side of the property from the auto
repair shop. The property owner answered affirmatively when asked if the other tenants were made
aware of the new tenant. The other tenants of this property have designated parking areas.
Steve Krisky asked if there were any environmental issues regarding cleanup from what used to be a
power tool operation, the building owner reported that there was phase one environmental testing
completed inside the building in December when they purchased the property. Geoff Haynes asked if
anything flammable or dangerous would be used in the shop and the applicant replied that no, no
dangerous chemicals are used, and that their machinery runs on water and electricity, and there is no
dust. Mirage Mirror & Glass does have a forklift that uses propane, but is the forklift is rarely used.
There is no mercury involved.
There are eight designated parking spaces for the tenant space that the glass company will be
occupying and the Planning Board asked that signage be posted, clearly indicating which spaces were
to be used for Mirage Mirror & Glass. There is also parking available behind the building, if needed.
Ideally, Mirage Mirror & Glass would like to open toward the end of February. The expectation is for the
daily traffic to be mostly employees, and 3-4 walk-in customers per day. There are five employees who
come in the morning, load up their vans and are gone for the remainder of the day. There are three
additional employees in the shop every day. Saturday is a less busy day, when the shop is only open to
the public by appointment.
Geoff Haynes asked about the median strip in front of the property and mentioned that it looked a little
barren. Geoff Haynes asked if this strip could be updated with some curb appeal, including landscaping,

1

for the new business, and the property owner agreed to provide a landscape plan detailing
improvements to be made to the front of this strip of his property.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the change of use application for Carmel Riverside, with the
added conditions that a landscape plan be submitted showing improvements to the median strip in front
of the property, that an updated sign permit application be submitted, that signage be posted clearly
indicating parking spaces for Mirage Mirror & Glass, and that a building permit application be submitted
for interior alterations, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 3 - 0 with John Ghegan and Eva
Thaddeus being absent.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes December 17th, 2024

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of December 17th, 2024, as
amended, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 3-0 with John Ghegan and Eva Thaddeus
being absent, and the meeting was adjourned at 9:00 p.m.

4.

ADJOURNMENT

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

** Minutes approved on February 4, 2025 with a motion by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve
Krisky and carried by a vote of 3 - 0 with John Ghegan and Eva Thaddeus abstaining as they were
absent for the January 21 st Planning Board meeting**

2

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has reviewed an application for a Change of Use permit
for Mirage Mirror & Glass, submitted by Carmel Riverside, LLC, hereafter known as "the
Applicant," for one (1) tenant space of said property owned by Carmel Riverside, LLC
and located at 425 South Riverside Avenue. The property is in the C-2 General
Commercial and Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Districts and is designated on the
Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 2 Lot 91; and
WHEREAS, the proposed Change of Use is from Power Equipment Dealer to Mirror &
Glass Retail Business; and
WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act
(SEQRA), the Planning Board has determined that this project is a Type II Action, which
is not subject to review under SEQRA.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Change of Use application and
supporting documents, submitted to the Village Engineer's Office on 01/15/2025, be
approved subject to the following conditions:
1)

2)

3)
4)

That, an application for the business sign shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer for review for compliance with the Zoning Code. If in compliance,
the Village Engineer shall transmit the application to the Visual Environment
Advisory Board for their review and comment. The applicant shall then return
to the Planning Board for approval of the business sign, and
That, the median strip in front of the property will be updated with some curb
appeal, including landscaping, for the new business. A landscaping plan shall
be prepared and submitted to the Planning Board for approval; and
That signage be posted clearly indicating parking spaces for Mirage Mirror &
Glass, and that any existing signage is cleaned up, and
That a building permit application shall be submitted for the proposed interior
alterations.

In the event that this Change of Use is not implemented within three (3) years of this
date, this approval shall expire.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus (Absent)

Motion to approve by Steve Krisky, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried by a vote 3 0, with John Ghegan and Eva Thaddeus being absent.

