Croton Conservation Advisory Council
Minutes
Tuesday, December 12, 2023
Attendance: Terry McGarty, John Ealer, Lance Amato, Jamie Czuy, Rachel
Bernstein, Sherry Horowitz, Janet Monahan, Trustee Nicholson, Mayor Pugh,
Planning Board Liaison Steve Krisky
Review November’s minutes – Passed 7-0
Recording Secretary Vote per Village Directive Section 12-4. There was a
question: did we really need a Recording Secretary since we never have had one.
The answer was Yes. Janet asked for a volunteer. There were no volunteers. John
suggested that we have a rotating Recording Secretary. This was agreed upon.
John will take the minutes in January. At the January meeting we will make a
schedule. John asked if we can record the meeting. After going back and forth, it
was decided that it would be the decision of the Recording Secretary of the
month.
Opening: We suddenly have an opening. Janet read Michael’s letter of
resignation. Since we haven’t replaced Guy’s or Bruce’s expertise, we are looking
for someone in that category especially with the Tree Regulation referral. Janet
has emailed Jan Johnson and Carrie Andrews to see if they know someone. Jan
because of her field and Cary with her connections. Sherry will contact Craig
Stevens, arborist, for the Arboretum to see if knows of someone. Terry will
contact Karen Jescavage-Bernard from the Arboretum.
Dark Skies – Scott Levine, a past member, visited CCAC to discuss his work in this
area. We had a lengthy discussion regarding dark skies and light pollution. Please
see the notes on this discussion at the end of the minutes. A subcommittee was
formed to review how best to proceed notifying residents and businesses
regarding this issue. The subcommittee members will be Lance Amaro, John Ealer,
Terry McGardy, Steve Krisky, Scott Levine, Sherry Horowitz. Janet will start an
email thread.

Repair Café – Wrap up 91 items, 69 Attendees, 12 Staff, 16 Coaches
Was very well received. Janet will email Bryan Healy and ask for Saturday, June22,
2024 for our next café. We may need a larger room to add information and
coffee/tea table.
Suggestions for next one:
 Translate everything into Spanish
 Croton Caring Advertise/Publicity
 Ask school to send out a district wide email Mr. Plotkin at PVC only one to
do this
 Add an information table on composting, food scrapes program, Leave the
Leaves Alone, etc. Also, a coffee/tea table so everyone can meet.
 Advertise Recyclopedia at event
 Less food
 Create Photo/Name release form for staff and coaches.
 Create Photo/Name release form for minors to be signed by
parents/guardians.
 Scour our basement for unused supplies such as washers
 Flyer should emphasize Window and Door screens. Not cell phone or TV, etc
 More electricians - In the beginning 5-6 people waiting
 Scissors and knife sharpening, not tools such as a chainsaw
 Add last entrance at 2:30 to flyer so we are closed at 3
 Bring Laptop for Registration
 At Registration one person for Online Registration and one person for walkins. Bring at least 50 Registration Forms.
 Add an appraiser Lynn Harmonay from Sotheby’s International was an
attendee. She suggested this since so many people had antiques.
Tree Ordinance – Referral and subcommittee County Supervisor George Latimer
letter, compare our present regulations to the Town of Greenburg’s. We need to
find an arborist to assist us on this. See suggestions above. Sherry will contact
Craig Stevens, arborist for the Arboretum. Janet has reached out to Jan Johnson
and Cary Andrews to see if they know anyone. Mayor Pugh would like this report
be completed no later than March. A sub-committee was formed to do the
research and report at monthly CCAC meetings. Its members are Rachel Bernstein
Sherry Horowitz, Eva Thaddeus, Jamie Czuy. Janet will create an email thread for
the group.

Gouveia Park – Village has created a committee to research best practices for the
property. There will be levels: driveway, house, acreage. Janet and Sherry are on
the committee. Since the village has tried this before, there was some skepticism
as to whether this will succeed. Mayor Pugh said that the committee needs to
present early on in the budget process.
Earth Day – Saturday, April 27 10 – 4; Rain date Saturday, May 4 Janet will be
sending out the Save The Date emails in the next week or so. She will also email
the Planning Guide to Lance, Jamie and Trustee Nicholson. Terry will have the rain
date added to the street signs and banners. Rachel will create the flyer. John will
contact the food trucks. At the January meeting, we will continue volunteering for
other areas, such as entertainment.
This year we will focus on children’s programs such as puppetry and storytelling.
Terry suggested that we research Jonathan Kruk a children’s entertainer. John
googled Jonathan and saw he charges $400 for one show or $600 for two shows.
He will tailor a show to match our needs. Another option is Walkabout Clearwater
Chorus. They will need to be contacted to see availability and cost.
Natural Resource Inventory (NRI) – Janet attended The Town of Cortlandt CAC
meeting in November regarding the NRI. Lise Prown, Vice Chair Peekskill CAC,
presented Peekskill’s recently adopted NRI. She explained her process. They
applied for the grant three times before it was awarded. We were able to view the
online site on the Promethean Board in their meeting room.
Green Living Series – Due to the length of the meeting, we tabled creating a
subcommittee. Janet will be on this committee. The following topics will be
explored:
1. The authors of Croton Point Park, Scott Craven and Caroline Ranald
Curvan
2. Co-existing with Coyotes Regan Downey regan@nywolf.org WCCs
Education Program Referred by Alice O’Rourke nywolf.org
3. Also, the Dark Skies Initiative
C.L.E.A.N – John’s report - Janet told John that at Repair Café Eliza McCarthy
would like to volunteer for a clean-up at Dobbs Park. John has been in

communication with Eliza. The final clean-up of 2023 will be Saturday, December
16 at Dobbs Park. They could clean there every week.
Trails – Terry’s report - Unless needed, the Trails Committee will meet again in the
Spring. Terry will be exploring a trail through Van Cortlandt Manor. This has been
tried before, but Hudson Valley Historical has not been interested.
Next Meeting
Tuesday, January 9, 2024
7:30 PM
Municipal Building Small Meeting Room
Dark Skies/Light Pollution Discussion:
Scott Levine is a past member of CCAC. He gave a talk on this topic as part of The
Green Living Series. Janet reached out to Scott to assist in this initiative.
There are many aspects to the affect lighting has on our environment. Not only
does lighting affect animals and wildlife, it also affects humans such as depression.
And of course there is the astronomy aspect of not being able to see the stars,
planets and seasonal astronomical sky shows.
Besides residents’ flood lights, the biggest areas of concern include Shoprite and
other shopping centers, MTA, the schools, Happy Hearts on S. Riverside and
Foodtown shopping center. Only part of Chase Bank and parking lot is in the
village limits. Janet will contact Wendy Talio, chair of the Town of Cortlandt CAC to
inform her of our new initiative.
Flood lights are not the burglary deterrent that people believe they are. Also,
there is no need for residents to light their trees with flood lights.
Some ways that residents could help deter light pollution are:






use motion sensors/detectors
light timers
change the color of the lights to amber
eliminate spot lights
put a filter over their lights

The village must lead the way in this area. They can change the light color to
amber around the village, put filters and shields over street lights. The Planning
Board should refer to the village lighting code and can set hours.
Educating the residents will be the next step. This can begin with an article in the
Village Newsletter and a presentation at The Green Living Series. Focus should be
on health and well-being of humans, animals and wildlife.
The sub-committee will research best practices and educating the public. Join the
International Dark Skies Association for more pertinent information. Tuscan AZ is a
model dark sky community. Research their process.

