Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, February 12, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua B. Subin
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi – Via Zoom
Trustee Slippen

1. Mayor Pugh asked for a moment of silence in memory of Lance Amato, a
member of the Conservation Advisory Council, who recently passed away.
Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 6:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Nicholson made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year
Vouchers, Claims numbered 24253422-24253799. The Motion was seconded
by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$549,571.34
$45,894.87
$207,170.95
$477,281.01

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none.
4. PUBLIC COMMENT - AGENDA ITEMS
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, spoke out against
the Village purchasing more electric car charging stations and does not
support the Village considering the purchase of additional electric Police
vehicles.
Resolution approving the Consent Agenda
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approved the Consent Agenda.
Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
5. CONSENT AGENDA:

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 2

a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Letter from the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation awarding a $20,000 grant to the Village for the 2024
Municipal Zero-Emission Vehicle Rebate Program.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202502/89368b4f239f7e82eecf98f595b980585411bded.pdf
2. Email from the New York State Pro-Housing Community Program
announcing the program's recertification requirements for 2025.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202502/630c8c7b212cd1cde37ba0b763527c6a270018ec.pdf
3. Letter from Paul Rush, Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of Water Supply,
NYC Dept. of Environmental Protection, regarding the agency's 2025
initiatives and investments.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202502/07ed197037e57874b25227b3e353d56ee30e665e.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #12-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton Free Library has requested that the Croton-on-Hudson Police
Department establish parking restrictions in its parking lot, and
WHEREAS New York State Vehicle & Traffic Law Section 1640-a permits the
regulation of traffic at places of public assembly, such as the library, and
WHEREAS the parking restrictions will prohibit parking overnight between 9:30
p.m. and 9:30 a.m. daily, except by special permit, and
WHEREAS the Conservation Advisory Council has requested that non-profits be able
to participate in the Earth Day festival without charge, and

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 3

WHEREAS the Board of Trustees must establish these changes in the Master Fee
Schedule,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
amends the 2024-2025 Master Fee Schedule as follows:
Earth Day

§122-4

Local Parking Permits

§215-34
§215-34

Non-profit organizations

$0

All other organizations

$25.00

Croton Free Library (for 2024-25)

$5.00

Croton Free Library (for 2025-26)

$10.00

Resolution #13-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the property located at 192 Grand Street, known as Sheet 68.17, Block
4, Lot 56 on the tax map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, encroaches onto
Village-owned property within the Grand Street right-of-way, and
WHEREAS the encroachments have existed since at least 1924 without interference
with the operation and maintenance of the Village street, and
WHEREAS it is in the best interest of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to formalize
the existing encroachment through a license agreement with the owners of 192
Grand Streett, and
WHEREAS the License Agreement attached hereto outlines the terms and conditions
for the use and occupation of the encroached portion of the Village-owned property
by the Licensee,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
sign the License Agreement with the owners of the property located at 192 Grand
Street, subject to review and approval by the Village Attorney, to formalize the
existing encroachment as outlined in the agreement attached hereto, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Manager and the Village Attorney are
hereby authorized to execute an assignment of said license agreement to the
parties currently in contract to purchase the 192 Grand Street parcel.

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 4

Resolution #14-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS New York State enacted legislation in 2012 that established a “property
tax cap” on the amount that a local government’s property tax levy can increase
each year, and
WHEREAS under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes
charged on the municipality’s taxable assessed value of property, is capped at 2%
or the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions, and
WHEREAS the rate of inflation this year has been set by the State Comptroller’s
Office at 2.99% for municipalities operating on a June through May fiscal year, and
WHEREAS the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to
protect the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances, and
WHEREAS the state legislation requires that in the event an override is necessary,
the law enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2025 has been drafted to override the
“property tax cap” law enacted by State Legislature, if necessary,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls
for a Public Hearing on February 26, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local
Law Introductory No. 1 of 2025 to override the “property tax cap” law enacted by
State Legislature.
Resolution #15-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the winter season has been colder than normal, resulting in high heating
costs at Village facilities, and
WHEREAS additional funding is required in the Parks budget to cover the expenses
of heating the Gouveia Park building,

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 5

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $3,000 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account: A7110.4310 – Parks – Heating Oil.
Resolution #16-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the boiler at the DPW garage recently required emergency repairs, and
WHEREAS the emergency repairs were extensive and not fully budgeted in the
2024-2025 fiscal year,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $8,175 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account: A1640.4000 – Garage – Contractual.
c. Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of the Regular Meeting held
on January 22, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on February 5,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
6. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #17-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees wishes to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of
the Village Code to update various provisions, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 12 of 2024 has been drafted for such
purposes, and

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 6

WHEREAS on October 9, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 12 of 2024, which was opened and closed on January 22, 2025,
and
WHEREAS on January 22, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the
process and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the EAF “Determination of
Significance” attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on January 22, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP Policy
standards and conditions, and found no policies or conditions to be applicable,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees confirms its
determination that the Proposed Action complies with the policy standards and
conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 12 of 2024, to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update various provisions, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 3 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that while he is in favor of making an amendment to this law
based on feedback they received from the public, he believes that the best course
of action at this time is to adopt the current version and amend it at a later time.
Trustee Simon stated that he concurs with the Mayor, the Board has spent a good
deal of time on all of the provisions and supports moving forward in light of all the
work that has been done by the Planning Board, Local Waterfront Committee and

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 7

others and we can certainly continue to look at this to see if we can improve it later
on.
Resolution #18-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson wishes to have the legal authority to
lease certain sports field fences for advertisements, and
WHEREAS the authority would be granted to the following locations: Dobbs Park,
Duck Pond Park and Firefighters Memorial/David J. Manes Fields, and
WHEREAS Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg has introduced bill A810 in the State
Assembly to permit the Village to lease certain sports field fences for
advertisements, and
WHEREAS State Senator Peter Harckham will be introducing a companion bill in the
State Senate regarding same, and
WHEREAS the Village is required to formally submit a home rule request to the
legislature,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
requests permission to lease certain sports field fences in the Village of Croton-onHudson under the state’s home rule authority, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this home rule request be sent to State
Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg and State Senator Peter Harckham.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Nicholson asked if we have always needed Home Rule for these
advertisements.
Village Manager Healy stated that there is a bit of a grey area in the law, and a
number of municipalities in recent years have sought Home Rule Legislation just to
make sure that they are on solid ground.
Resolution #19-2025

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 8

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees has received from the Treasurer of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson an account of unpaid taxes describing each parcel of real
property upon which taxes are unpaid and showing the person or persons in whose
name the property is assessed and the amount of unpaid tax, together with a
verified statement from the Treasurer that the taxes in such account remain unpaid
and that he has been unable to collect same, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees has compared the amount of unpaid taxes with the
original tax rolls and has found the account to be correct and the total amount of
taxes, penalties, and charges unpaid to be $83,603.57,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby gives notice
to these property owners about their unpaid tax balances, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Treasurer of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
be and is authorized, empowered and directed to take all action prescribed by law
to collect such unpaid taxes through the advertisement and sale of taxes or tax
liens pursuant to Section 1455 of the Real Property Tax Law of the State of New
York, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby designates March 18,
2025, as the tax lien sale date for the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such sale shall be held on that date at 11 a.m.
prevailing time in the Village Treasurer’s office in the Stanley H. Kellerhouse
Municipal Building, 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, New York, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the advertisement of the notice required by law be
inserted in The Gazette, the official newspaper of the Village, and that said notice
shall be published once a week for three consecutive weeks, and the last date for
publication shall be made on or before the 10th day of March 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Village Treasurer Tucker explained that in the early 1990’s the Tax Law changed to
permit Villages to continue to hold Tax Lien sales even though most municipalities
have chosen to do tax foreclosures, in 2024 the bill to renew the Tax Law was
vetoed at the State level and he believed that we had lost our authority, but last

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 9

year the State adopted some updates for procedures and they approved the
authority for Villages to continue Tax Lien sales.
Resolution #20-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Police Department has been replacing certain gas-powered vehicles
in its fleet with electric vehicles, and
WHEREAS additional electric vehicles for the Engineering Department and Parking
Enforcement are regularly parked at the Municipal Building, and
WHEREAS the electric infrastructure in the building has reached its maximum
capacity for charging station, and
WHEREAS the Dept. of Public Works has estimated that it will cost approximately
$18,727 to upgrade the building’s electrical panel, and
WHEREAS funding is available in the Village’s sustainable trust account for this
purpose,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
expenditure of these funds from the Sustainable Trust Account, T94002.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy emphasized that this resolution is not for the purchase of
additional electric vehicle chargers. Village Manager Healy explained that it was
determined that the current electric service in the Municipal Building did not have
enough power to support additional charging stations and those funds are coming
from the DPW Solar Array Trust Account which is earmarked for sustainable
initiatives.
Resolution #21-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 10

WHEREAS the Village has received complaints recently regarding the water quality
along Lounsbury Road, and
WHEREAS the water main in this location is over 80 years old and in need of being
re-lined, and
WHEREAS WSP USA Inc. of Valhalla, New York, has provided a proposal in the
amount of $25,000 to undertake engineering services related to this project, and
WHEREAS funding for this expense was not included in the 2024-2025 Water Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to accept the proposal from WSP USA Inc. of Valhalla, New York, in
the amount of $25,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
transfer $25,000 from Contingency Account F1990.4000 to the following account:
F8340.4000 – Distribution: Contractual.
Resolution #22-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the NYS Environmental Facilities Corporation has proposed revising the
Project Scoring Criteria for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF), and
WHEREAS the proposed changes may result in smaller municipalities having more
difficulty in accessing funding from the CWSRF,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
submit a public comment to the NYS Environmental Facilities Corporation on behalf
of the Village Board of Trustees in support of revising the scoring criteria to
facilitate access by smaller municipalities.
Resolution #23-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 11

AUTHORIZING TAX CERTIORARI SETTLEMENT WITH PETITIONER SO. RIVERSIDE
CROTON, LLC. 79.13-2-26
WHEREAS petitions have been filed by the party above challenging real property tax
assessments on the Village’s assessment roll, and
WHEREAS the petitioner’s court challenge is now pending in Supreme Court,
Westchester County, and
WHEREAS the Village and petitioner have reached a mutually agreeable resolution
and the cost to the Village based on the reductions in assessments is ±$10,354.57,
and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees has had an opportunity to review this matter and
has been satisfied that the proposed settlement is just, reasonable and in the
interest of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby authorizes the Village’s Special Counsel to execute and
sign the attached Consent Order & Judgment, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
payment to the petitioner as outlined in the Consent Order & Judgment, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the payment of $10,354.57 shall be payable from
the Village’s Tax Stabilization Reserve Fund.
Resolution #24-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Con Edison requested police services for their gas-main repair work last
year, and
WHEREAS police officers are assigned to conduct traffic control, as well as to ensure
safety for residents and visitors to the Village, and
WHEREAS Con Edison agreed to pay the cost of the overtime for these officers,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to
amend the General Fund 2024-2025 budget in the amount of $51,834.78.

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 12

GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase Expense
A3120.1200
Personnel Services - Overtime

$51,834.78

GENERAL REVENUES
Increase Revenues
A3120.1520
Police Fees

$51,834.78

7. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked that the sound
system be fixed, the dog ordinance and reckless driving be enforced, and
addressed his objections to allowing businesses to park in the Harmon area
destroying the quality of life for residents in that area, believes that the
repaving of Olcott and Oneida Avenue was not necessary, and does not
support the repaving of Cleveland Drive.
Email from Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, highlighting his
concerns regarding Transit District housing proposals, as well as his concerns
for the height of the proposed LOT A project and encouraged the Board to
stay with the Planning Board’s recommendations.
8. REPORTS:
Trustee Slippen congratulated Ken Jenkins on his election as County
Executive, met with the Gouveia Task Force and is pleased that they are
moving forward on their various projects, the Library Board met and talked
about the parking situation and how the school is making an effort to remind
students not to park there, the Arts and Humanities Committee is working on
a program to celebrate artists in August, Senator Shelley Mayer will be
holding a webinar for municipal officials on Con-Edison’s rate increases, and
a webinar will be held tomorrow, hosted by our local County and State
Representatives in conjunction with Neighbors Link, on “know your rights and
how to function in your community”, in light of the recent changes that could
affect our immigrant population.
Trustee Nicholson advised that she had the honor to work with Lance Amato,
he was dedicated to our Village and in particular to the “dark skies”
movement, and hopes that in Lance’s name we continue the good fight for
our skies and to make sure that policy goes forward, the Police Advisory
Committee and the IDEA committee are working with our Police Department

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 13

to improve and update Police procedures with respect to our local
immigrants, the IDEA Committee is also coming up with recommendations on
how best to get information out to our immigrant population and a
representative from Neighbors Link has been invited to the March 10th
Business Meeting to share information as well, the Visual Environment Board
met last night and discussed the new sign for Mirage Glass, as well as the
rebranding of BP on South Riverside to Citgo, there was also a robust
conversation around the Maple Commons clock color, the Recreation Advisory
Committee met last night and advised that they will be visiting our parks to
make an inventory of what is needed, and the Arts and Humanities Jazz
series continues this Sunday, 2pm at the Croton Library.
Trustee Simon advised that he attended the New York Conference of Mayors
Legislative Conference in Albany last week, they heard presentations from
the State Comptroller, Attorney General and Lieutenant Governor, he also
attended workshops on housing, economic development, and taxes as well
an update on the Governor’s proposed budget, they also met with
Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg and Senator Pete Harckham, attended the
Westchester Municipal Officials Association meeting where Senate and
Assembly representatives spoke to the group about their municipal priorities,
met with the Rotary yesterday where they talked about their Student
Exchange Program, the Rotary will also be making a contribution to our
concert series, thanked everyone who worked and participated on the annual
Eaglefest, earlier this week he and Mayor Pugh participated in the 133rd
anniversary of the Washington Engine Company, on February 8th the Croton
River Artisans held a wonderful event in honor of Black History Month
featuring the photography of Alan Haywood, the Sustainability Committee
met on January 23rd and talked about possible at risk Federal funded
programs, on Feb 4th the Planning Board met and discussed the site plan for
the 1 Croton Point Avenue project, our next business meeting will be held on
March 10th, Historic Hudson Valley will also meet with our local businesses
and is delighted to welcome the Croton Grille back to Croton.
Mayor Pugh stated that in the spirit of Lance’s dedication to the Conservation
Advisory Council, the Conservation Advisory Council will be co-signing a
Monarch Butterfly Protection Pledge, as well as seeking the designation as a
“Bee City’ to promote policies that are important to these very important
pollinators, the CAC will also be holding a Community Clean-Up day on March
8th, on March 29th a Repair Café is scheduled, and Earth Day is scheduled for
Saturday, May 3rd, with a rain date for May 10th.

Village Board of Trustees
February 12, 2025
Page 14

Village Manager Healy welcomed his new assistant Amy MacNamara,
reminded everyone that offices will be closed next Monday in observance of
Presidents Day, and reminded everyone to pay attention to the signs at Duck
Pond that will indicate when it is safe for skating.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Slippen. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Simon approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 6:58PM
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

