MEETING SUMMARY

Croton IDEA Advisory 7/11
11 July 2025 / 2:45 – 4:15 PM / Municipal Building
Next meeting: Sept. 5
No IDEA Committee meeting this August because many of our members will be away. Our next full
committee meeting is scheduled for Friday, Sept. 5, at 2:45 pm.
Juneteenth Review
● We expressed much gratitude to the volunteers and organizers who put so much into the
event, including Adriana, Faith, Kio, Kyla, Marlena, and Nina.
● We discussed what worked and what could be improved, creating notes for next year.
Disability programs & advocacy
● We viewed the Village webpage, which includes the info submitted, "Accessibility and Other
Considerations."
● We agreed to advise (via memo) the Village Board, RAC, and the Manager’s office about
posting a sign with lower-level drop-off instructions at Silverlake
Diversity Calendar
● A subcommittee worksession was set to review and recommend a finalized version including
how dates are observed
● The aim of the file is threefold:
○ An advisory to the Board, updating the calendar
○ A guide for selecting the first banners for the banner program
○ Reference for the IDEA Committee's future programming
Hispanic Heritage Month
● A committee member suggested hosting an event for Hispanic Heritage Month
(Sept. 15 – Oct. 15)
● The subcommittee was formed, and a meeting date was set
● So far, ideas include dance lessons and a book discussion; food was also mentioned…
Questions for Trustees and Manager
Committee members discussed the need for guidelines from the Village, including Village venues,
the request time needed before an event, and publicity spaces. We created a shared document with
questions.
Immigrant Rights
In response to a committee member’s suggestion, the Mayor’s newsletter included a “Reminder RE:
Immigration Policy” with links to the Village policy and the Police Department’s PSA
“Creative Croton Women”
● We discussed the Women’s Month programming being organized by members of the
Croton Council on the Arts
● There’s a possible role for IDEA to help with a student show
Approval of 6/6/25 Meeting Summary
All present voted to approve June’s meeting summary (attached to this email), and it will be
submitted for posting next week

