Planning Board Meeting Minutes
August 20, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Taryn Ramey, Assistant Village Attorney
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of August 20th, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.
Chairman Luntz clarified that 1-3 Croton Point Ave will be the second agenda item this evening and the
Planning Board will not be taking public comments on this application.

2.

NEW BUSINESS:
a)

Weale, Ross, 103 Hastings Avenue (79.13-1-31) Accessory Dwelling Unit Application

Architect Joe Thompson was present in support of the application. Currently, 103 Hastings Avenue is a
single-family house. The proposed accessory cottage meets the zoning criteria, (+/-771 sq ft) and will be
a one bedroom, one bathroom cottage with a partially finished basement. The cottage will be built
behind the existing home with a new, stone walkway along the side of the property. The accessory
cottage will be simple and modern. When asked about the loft space on the top floor, the applicant said
that it would be used for storage only.
The applicant said that there is a fence at the back of the property, but they would be happy to put a
"green screen" for the neighbor behind, on Young Avenue. There are two escape windows in the
basement, and from the street, not much of the accessory dwelling unit will be visible.
Cathy Connolly of 80 Young Avenue spoke and reported a neighborly relationship with the homeowners
at 103 Hastings Avenue. Cathy Connolly is shocked that "We are plopping cottages in the back of
people's backyards," and does not find that this is within the character of the community. Cathy
Connolly does request that some evergreen trees are planted behind the cottage to buffer noise and for
privacy.
Mark Shapiro spoke in support of this application. Mark Shapiro reported that he has known the family
for 30 years and they are local business owners, and committed to this town. Mark Shapiro reported
that the primary purpose of this new build was to house a family member, and that this encourages
intergenerational living, and aligns with the town's goals.
Chairman Luntz reported that when the accessory dwelling unit law was passed, the Planning Board
were not necessarily in support of allowing accessory cottages in the R-5 Zoning District.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the accessory dwelling unit application for Ross Weale at 103
Hastings Avenue with the plans revised to show a green screen of evergreen trees at the rear of the
property at a minimum of 6-feet high to buffer noise and ensure privacy for the neighbors to the rear of

1

the property and the additional condition that the loft space of the accessory cottage may only be used
as non-habitable space, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by 5 to 0.

3.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Planning Board discussion of referral from Village Board of Trustees to review a Special
Permit Application from WPB Development LLC to construct a 100-unit residential building
located at 1-3 Croton Point Avenue and Lot A (79.17-1-3,4,5)
Chairman Luntz read this next agenda item which is a referral from the Village Board to review a Special
Permit Application from WPB Development LLC to construct a 100-unit residential building located at 1-3
Croton Point Avenue and Lot A. At this time, Anthony Granger of Half Moon Bay, Ed Riely of Truesdale
Drive, Alexander Skrelja of Truesdale Drive, and another man stood up and presented a petition to the
Planning Board of 1,086 signatures of Croton residents who are against rapid overdevelopment and
urbanization. Chairman Luntz was not taking public comments at this time on this agenda item. The
police were called after frustration was expressed due to the Planning Board not taking public
comments. A member of the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department came to the Georgianna Grant
Meeting Room, but there was no further disruption and the police officer did not stay.
The Planning Board reviewed a draft recommendation letter to the Village Board that included the following
objectives and goals in section 230-58 of the Zoning Code:

A: The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection.
The Planning Board recommends that the application be referred to the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department
to review. The Planning Board would also like to hear about safety measures for the potential storage of
E-bikes in the bicycle storage area. The building will have a fire alarm and fire sprinkler system. The
Planning Board noted that there are two existing five story buildings in the Village: SkyView Rehabilitation
Center and Van Wyck Apartments.
Improvements to the Village's water distribution system were discussed in order to achieve the required fire
flows. If this could not be achieved other onsite fire safety improvements would be required.

B: The compatibility of the location, size, and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in
conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties.
The proposed five-story building, requiring a special permit, is a zoning compliant Transit-Oriented
Development in the Light Industrial (LI) District in which it is located.

C: The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the
pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account the
location, and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or conducted in
connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets.
The Planning Board recommends a more in-depth traffic study be conducted and would also like to hear
how commuter traffic would be mitigated during construction. The Planning Board is concerned about the
impact of the increase in traffic and questioned if 103 parking spots is sufficient for resident parking for the
proposed 100 residential units. The proposed 103 parking spots may not be sufficient for the residents.
While it's hoped that this being a Transit Oriented Zone would offset the needs of residents having two cars,
it may not be a realistic expectation. Therefore, a development with only 80 or preferably 60 units would

2

be better serviced with only 103 parking spaces. It would be good to know how other TOD developments
have handled parking requirements. There are plenty of examples on the MNR Hudson line that could be
contacted for information about what parking ratios they are using and how it is working out. It is
recommended that the applicant provide this type of information. One parking space per unit may not be a
realistic expectation, a review of parking data from existing TOD developments is highly recommended.
It is recommended that the traffic impacts be analyzed further. Impacts to people coming and going to the
train station, employees at Metro North, visitors to Croton Point Park and residents of Half Moon Bay need
to be analyzed including any traffic impacts from rezoning of 1 Half Moon Bay Drive. In their memorandum
AKRF recommends a traffic study; the traffic study should also include impacts to commuter traffic during
construction and the traffic from any rezoning of 1 Half Moon Bay Drive should be given consideration.
A light pollution study is recommended due to the nearby Metro North Harmon Yard facility operating on a
24/7 basis. Any mitigation measures recommended by the study should be incorporated into the design of
the building.
Also, if the current trend continues of people returning to more robust usage of train station
parking/commuting, ample parking to support those cars may not be available. If lot A is not available for
future parking the remaining lot may reach capacity. It is recommended that a plan be developed to handle
any parking needs that exceed the capacity of the remaining train station parking lot.
The Planning Board recommends that the application be reviewed by the Croton Harmon School District
with respect to a future school bus stop. Can the school bus safely pick up and drop off children?

D: The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of walls
and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and buildings
and their appropriate development.
The project is not adjacent to a residential neighborhood. The Planning Board asked if the applicant would
consider this project on a smaller scale (fewer apartments and fewer than five stories). Additional
information should be requested regarding an increase in school children and increased traffic.
The Planning Board discussed area noise levels due to the adjacent highway and railroad and that noise
abatement be factored into the design of the building.
E: The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.
The preservation of ecological assets is not applicable to this project.
The Planning Board reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and found that under "C. Coastal Assessment
1, where No is checked, it should Yes and be explained under the Remarks section that the entire Village
is in a coastal area.
The Planning Board reviewed the EAF and noted the following:
The applicant indicated that the EAF indicates 100 parking spaces but there are now 103 and
the EAF will be revised to indicate 103 parking spaces.

3

On page 7 of the EAF question "J" about a substantial increase in traffic above present levels
is answered "No" when a "Yes" appears more appropriate given that Lot A, post COVID, has
generally been vacant.
The Planning Board indicated that a Fiscal Analysis be conducted to understand the impact on taxes and
on taxes and the local economy.
The Planning Board feels that it would be greatly beneficial if there was some way to prioritize Croton
families into the mix of potential residents who might qualify for residency in the proposed building. Much
of the perceived need for affordable housing units is coming from Croton residents that would like an
alternative to their current living situation. Empty nester opportunities, opportunities for our grown children
to remain in town, etc. If all the units are forced to go to a lottery system, this goal is completely undermined.
Market rate units, first available to Croton residents, with some inclusion of affordable, no more than 20 %
(as per the RFP), seems like a better way to accommodate Croton residents. A lottery does not serve
Croton residents. It is strongly recommended that the proposal conform to the RFP requirement of 20% of
the units being affordable and the remaining 80% be market rate. This would give Croton residents a better
opportunity of purchasing a unit vs. having to enter a lottery if the building is 100% affordable units.
The Planning Board notes that the RFP required public benefits and amenities and therefore also
recommends that the applicant provide a response on what public benefits and amenities are being
provided. One to consider is use of the community room on a limited basis; other considerations should
also be presented for discussion.
Overall, the Planning Board thinks that this is a good location and design for the apartment building, but the
project ( 100 units), as proposed, is maybe too large for the Village when you factor in the potential increased
traffic, increased number of school children, and concern that this proposed project, being all affordable,
would not prioritize Croton residents. A smaller building with 60-80 units, both affordable and market rate,
should be considered.
Eva Thaddeus thanked the community members who attended the Planning Board meetings and said
that the vast majority of people who spoke gave thoughtful and useful information that made the
Planning Board's recommendation better.
b) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review Draft Local Law Introductory 10 of 2024
recommending that the Zoning regulations addressing the reservation of parkland be revised
to provide clear and concise language on their applicability.
This draft law expands an existing local law and should establish a clear system where the Village Board
will set a fee scale for larger developments, depending on the number of bedrooms, for a park and
recreation fee to be paid into a trust to be used by the Village for park, playground, or recreation, if 10%
of the total area of the subdivision cannot be allotted for this purpose. Dan O'Connor gave examples of a
parcel of land that was subdivided several years ago and the developer donated a portion of the property
back to the Village to be used as parkland, in lieu of a fee, and more recently, on Harrison Street, a
property was subdivided into two lots and the developer paid a recreation fee, that the Village can use to
enhance parks and recreation somewhere else within the Village.
Dan O'Connor believes that there will be no more large subdivisions, but if a developer came in, the
Planning Board would look at it and see if it was possible for 10% of the property to be used for parkland
or recreation, and if that is not possible, the developer would have to pay a fee. This will put an extra
burden on the Planning Board to determine the present and anticipated need for park and recreation
facilities based on objective growth to which a particular site plan will contribute. Some multi-family
developments will have private parks on their property that will not be available to all Village residents,
so this will also have to factor in to the overall determination. This parkland review will be part of the site

4

plan review conducted by the Planning Board . In the past, a developer had the option to pay the
recreation fee upfront, or at the time that a building permit was issued, but under the new law, the fee
would need to be paid up front, prior to the Planning Board Chairperson signing a sub-division plat.
Assistant Village Attorney Taryn Ramey said that under the existing code, there is no interplay between
site plan and subdivision review processes, so this law provides that if a reservation of parkland or a fee
is required, it can be credited as part of the site plan review process.
Dan O'Connor said that in the code, under§ 230-123-part D, it states, "All funds paid in lieu of recreation
land shall constitute a trust fund to be used by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson exclusively for park,
playground or recreation purposes, including the acquisition of land.,, Dan O'Connor suggested adding
the same wording to§ 230-73, and the Planning Board agreed with this suggestion, and recommends
that the wording "All funds paid in lieu of recreation land shall constitute a trust fund to be used by the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson exclusively for park, playground or recreation purposes, including the
acquisition of land" be added to§ 230-73.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to recommend that Local Law 10 of 2024 to be updated, as written with
the addition of the changes that the wording from § 230-123 be added to § 230-73 and that any
recreation fees be paid by a developer up front, prior to a subdivision plat being signed by the Planning
Board Chairperson, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried, 5 - 0.

c)

Referral from Village Board to review application from ShopRite Supermarket, Inc., for
Special Permit Renewal at 440 South Riverside Avenue (79. 17-2-2)

The Planning Board reviewed a copy of a maintenance agreement between Croton Enterprises, LLC with
an address at c/o Newmark, 120 White Plains Road, Suite 120, Tarrytown, NY 10591 ("Owner") and the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson and found it acceptable.
The Planning Board voted unanimously to make a recommendation to approve the application to renew
the special permit for ShopRite Supermarkets for an additional five years.
Chairman Rob Luntz made a motion that the Planning Board recommends approving the special permit
for ShopRite Supermarkets for an additional five years, with the maintenance agreement discussed,
seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 5-0.

d) Adopting Planning Board Rules and Procedures
Ed Riely of Truesdale Drive asked to speak to this topic. Ed Riely stated that it was typical in rules and
procedures to specify a length of time for someone to speak. Ed Riely suggested that the Planning
Board allow public comment on each agenda item or give two periods of public comment time on any
agenda item, like the Board of Trustees. Referencing item # 6 of the draft memo, Ed Riley said that the
Planning Board members should also speak into the microphones. Ed Riely believes that there were
amendments or changes made to proposals that were discussed and knows that this Board is aware of
rules against quorum violations. Lastly, Ed Riely also said that it is a conflict of interest as one of the
Planning Board members is also on the Croton Housing Network and that this member should choose
between being on the Planning Board or the Housing Board, or recuse himself from every major decision
made by the Planning Board. Ed Riely then commended Chairman Luntz for how he runs the Planning
Board meetings.
The Planning Board are not going to take public comment on every agenda item and will not have an
open comment session at every meeting as that is not how the Planning Board was ever run .
The Planning Board discussed editing the guidelines for public comment section of the Planning Board
Rules and Procedures and change the submission deadline for written communication to be considered
by the Planning Board to noon on the Monday the day before a meeting. The Planning Board also

5

wanted to add rules about courtesy, decorum to the public hearing section of the rules. Lastly, the
Planning Board will allow for up to five (minutes) for speakers at public hearings.

Geoff Haynes made a motion to adopt the Planning Board rules and procedures, adding a section for
public hearings that includes allowing speakers five minutes to speak and expectations of courtesy and
decorum, and changing item "K" to state that written communication shall be submitted by 12 noon on
the day prior to a Planning Board meeting in order to be considered and lastly, under guidelines for
public comment, replacing item "A" with item "I" and omitting item "A," seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and
carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes August 6th, 2024

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of August 6th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

5.

ADJOURNMENT

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended, at the September 17, 2024 Planning Board meeting with a
motion by John Ghegan, seconded by Eva Thaddeus and passed by a vote of 3 - O with Rob Luntz
and Steve Krisky being absent. ***

6

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed an Accessory Cottage application on Tuesday, August
20th, 2024, for 103 Hastings Avenue, owned by Ross Weale, hereafter known as "the Applicant,"
said property located at 103 Hastings Avenue, and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 1 Lot 31 and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, under section 230-41 of the Village Code, the Planning Board is the approving
authority for approving the accessory cottage and hereby approves the accessory cottage, with 771
square feet of habitable floor area, subject to the conditions specified below; and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section 1203(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Accessory Cottage incorporates the excavation and
filling permit, subject to the conditions specified below, and
WHEREAS, land disturbance activity is under 5000 sq-ft as such will be approved by the
stormwater management officer; and
WHEREAS, no trees are being removed, and therefore no tree removal approval is required, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Accessory Cottage application as shown on
the following docwnents: "Weale Residence Accessory Dwelling Unit" Drawing 1 of 5 entitled
"Cl .01" 2 of 5, entitled "Cl .02", Drawing 3 of 5 entitled "Cl .03", Drawing 4 of 5 entitled "Al .01,"
Drawing 5 of 5 entitled "A2.0l all dated August 6th , 2024, and prepared by Joseph Thompson,
Architect, of Peekskill, New York; be approved under sections 230-41 of the Zoning Code subject
to the following conditions:
1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the colors and materials of the proposed accessory cottage be substantially
consistent as set forth in the above reference documents and described during
the meeting.
3. That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit
and Certificate of Occupancy for the accessory cottage.
4. That, the plans be revised to show a green screen of evergreen trees at the rear
of the property at a minimum of 6-feet high to buffer noise and ensure privacy
for the neighbors to the rear of the property, the correct square footage in the
zoning table, the proposed walkway and to address any comments from the
Village Engineer.
5. That, the loft space of the accessory cottage may only be used as non-habitable
space.
6. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application
for a certificate of occupancy.
7. That, the storm water drainage system and erosion and sediment control
management plan be approved by the Village Engineer.
8. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtain for all connections to
Village owned utilities.
9. That, any required permits for utility installation in the Village Street be
obtained from the Village Engineer.
10. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this
resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.

2
11. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the a pp ro v a 1 of the
excavation and fill work:
a.

That, suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall
be locked at all times when work is not being performed on the
property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to storm water drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That, during construction all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom not be greater than one foot.
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented on-site
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
i. That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site, shall
be removed from the site immediately but in no event more than 20
days from excavation.
j . That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and
remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or
covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved
landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two to three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend
this period on a day by day basis due to weather events that would not
allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan shall

3
also include an analysis of leaving part of the basement a crawl space
to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
I. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-1 0(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a submission
of a new application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may require the
submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 12010(E)-(G) of the Village Code.
12. That, in accordance with Section 230-41 of the Village Code, the following
condition is established for the approval of the accessory cottage:
a) Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to
continue the accessory apartment or accessory cottage use, the new
owner shall provide notification to the Building Department
confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and
that they are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and
accessory cottages and will remain in compliance. Such notice shall
be provided within 90 days of the change of ownership. Failure to
timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a
new application.:
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the accessory cottage, such approval and associated
permits shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of this accessory cottage
approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman

4
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
A motion to approve the resolution, with conditions, was made by Steve Krisky, seconded by John
Ghegan, and the motion carried, by a vote of 5 to 0.

Chairman
ROBERT LUNTZ

Planning Board
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

TO:

Members
JOHN GHEGAN
GEOFFREY HAYNES
STEVEN KRISKY
EVA THADDEUS
Attorney
LINDA WHITEHEAD
Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM: Chairman Luntz, Planning Board
RE:

Recommendation to Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 10 of 2024
recommending that the Zoning regulations addressing the reservation of
parkland be revised to provide clear and concise language on their applicability.

DATE:

September 6, 2024

At its regularly scheduled meetings on August 6th , 2024 and August 20 th , 2024, the Planning
Board reviewed the referral from the Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 10 of 2024.
The changes will expand the local law and establish a clear system where the Village Board will
set a fee scale for larger developments, depending on the number of bedrooms, for a park and
recreation fee to be paid into a trust to be used by the Village for park, playground, or recreation
purposes, if 10% of the total area of the subdivision cannot be allotted for this purpose.
The Planning Board recommends that Local Law Introductory 10 of 2024 be updated, as
written, with the following changes:
1) Under Section Two, § 230-123-part D, it states, ''All funds paid in lieu of recreation land
shall constitute a trust fund to be used by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson exclusively
for park, playground or recreation purposes, including the acquisition of land." The
Planning Board recommends that this same wording, ''All funds paid in lieu of recreation
land shall constitute a trust fund to be used by the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
exclusively for park, playground or recreation purposes, including the acquisition of
land." be added under Section One § 230-73 of Local Law Introductory 10 of 2024.
2) The Planning Board recommends that the parkland fee payment must be made prior to
the Planning Board Chairperson signing a subdivision plat.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

Fax: 914-271-3790

Chairman

ROBERT LUN7Z
Members

JOHNGHEGAN
GEOFFREY HA YNES
STEVEN KR/SKY
EVA THADDEUS

Village of

Allomey

Planning Board

LINDA WHITEHEAD

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY I 0520-250 I
engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov

Village Engineer

DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary

KAREN STAPLETON

TO:

Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees

FROM:

Robert Luntz, Chairman of the Planning Board

RE:

Special Permit Renewal Application - ShopRite Supermarkets, Inc.

DATE:

August 21st, 2024

At its regularly scheduled meetings on January 16th, 2024, and March 5th , 2024, and August
20th, 2024, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson reviewed the referral from
the Village Board of Trustees regarding an application from Shop Rite Supermarkets, Inc. to
renew their special permit to operate a retail store at 440 South Riverside Avenue (79.17-2-2).
On August 20 th , 2024, the Planning Board reviewed a copy of a maintenance agreement
between Croton Enterprises, LLC with an address at c/o Newmark, 120 White Plains Road, Suite
120, Tarrytown, NY 10591 ("Owner") and the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and found it
acceptable.
The Planning Board voted unanimously to make a recommendation to approve the application
to renew the special permit for ShopRite Supermarkets for an additional five years.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov

WHEREAS the Planning Board would like to establish Rules of Procedure, and
WHEREAS on May 21, 2024, June 4, 2024, August 6, 2024 and August 20, 2024, the Planning Board
reviewed the Board of Trustees' rules and procedures, and drafts of the Rules and Procedures for the
Planning Board, and
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Planning Board hereby adopts the following Rules of
Procedure for the Planning Board of the Village of Croton on Hudson as follows:

Planning Board Rules and Procedures (Adopted 8.21.24)
I.

REGULAR MEETINGS: The Planning Board generally conducts Regular Meetings on the
first and third Tuesday of each month at 8:00 p.m. in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room.
Any deviation to this schedule will be announced in advance.

II.

QUORUMS: A quorum of the Board must be physically present to conduct business. A
quorum of the five-member Planning Board is three, regardless of vacancies.

III.

AGENDAS: The Engineering office will prepare agendas ahead of time at the direction of
the Village Engineer.
a) Any two members of the Planning Board may, by motion at a regular meeting, place an
item on the agenda for a subsequent meeting.

IV.

VOTING: Each Planning Board Member has one vote. You must be present at the meeting
in order to vote. A majority of the totally authorized voting power (3 or more) is necessary to
pass a matter. A vote upon any matter must be taken by ayes and nays, and the names of the
members present and their votes must be entered in the minutes.

V.

GENERAL RULES OF PROCEDURE:
a) The Chairperson presides at a meeting. In the Chairperson's absence, he/she will
ask another member to step in as Acting Chairperson.
b) Every motion must be seconded before being put to a vote; all motions must be
recorded in their entirety in the Planning Board's minutes.
c) Each member shall report to the entire Planning Board any pertinent information from
boards, committees, and commissions to which they have been assigned as liaison during
a regular meeting.

VI.

GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT:
a) Speakers, other than applicants, must limit their remarks to three minutes. At the
discretion of the Chairperson, speakers may be offered the option to speak for longer.
b) Speakers must come to the front of the room and speak into a microphone.
c) Speakers must be recognized by the presiding officer.
d) Speakers must give their name, address, and identity of their organization, if
applicable.
e) Speakers may not yield any remaining time they may have to another speaker.
f) Board members may, with the permission of the Chairperson or presiding officer,
interrupt a speaker during their remarks, but only for the purpose of clarification or
information.
g) Speakers must observe the commonly accepted rules of courtesy, decorum, dignity,
and good taste.

h) Applicants will not have a time limit to speak
i) All remarks must be addressed to the Board as a body and not to specific members
thereof or the audience.
j) Interested parties or their representatives may address the Board by written
communication. For public hearings, as well as other agenda items, written
communications submitted in advance are considered at the hearings and provided as
backup material. Written communication shall be submitted by 12 noon on the day
prior to the meeting for inclusion in the backup material of the meeting.

VII.

PUBLIC HEARINGS:
a) Speakers, other than applicants, must limit their remarks to five (5) minutes. At the
discretion of the Chairperson, speakers may be offered the option to speak for
longer.
b) Speakers must come to the front of the room and speak into a microphone.
c) Speakers must be recognized by the presiding officer.
d) Speakers must give their name, address, and identity of their organization, if
applicable.
e) Speakers may not yield any remaining time they may have to another speaker.
f) Board members may, with the permission of the Chairperson or presiding officer,
interrupt a speaker during their remarks, but only for the purpose of clarification or
information.
g) Speakers must observe the commonly accepted rules of courtesy, decorum, dignity,
and good taste.

VIII.

MINUTES:
a) The Planning Board Secretary is responsible for taking the minutes of the Board.
Minutes must consist of a record or summary of all motions, proposals, resolutions, and
any other matter formally voted upon and the vote thereon.
b) Minutes must include the following
1. Name of Board.
2. Date, place and time of meeting.
3. Notation of the presence or absence of Board members and time of arrival or
departure if different from time of call to order and adjournment.
4. Name and title of other Village officials and employees participating in meetings.
5. A summary of communications presented to the Board.
6. Record of reports made by Board or other Village Personnel.
7. Time of adjournment and signature of secretary who took the minutes.
c) The Secretary is responsible for creating a draft of the minutes within the timeframe
provided for under the New York State Open Meetings Law. The Planning Board
approves the minutes at the next board meeting. Amendments to the minutes require
approval of the Planning Board by a majority vote.

IX.

GUIDELINES FOR USE OF RECORDING EQUIPMENT:
a) All Planning Board meetings are webcast and televised to the extent possible. All
members of the public and all public officials are allowed to tape or video record public
meetings. Recording should be done in a manner that does not interfere with the
meeting. If the recording is determined to be intrusive and interferes with the meeting,

the chairperson may direct that the recording be stopped or undertaken in a different
manner. The Chairperson, or presiding officer, may determine whether the recording is
being done in an intrusive manner, taking into consideration, but not limited to, the
brightness of lights, distance from the deliberations of the Board, size of the equipment,
and the ability of the public to participate in the meeting.
X.

ADJOURNMENT: Meetings shall be adjourned by motion.

XI.

AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES OF PROCEDURE: The Planning Board may amend
the foregoing procedures by a majority vote.

*** Planning Board Rules and Procedures approved, as amended, with a motion by Geoff Haynes,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and passed by a vote of 5-0. ***

Dated: August 21, 2024

