Members
John Ealer (CLEAN), Chair
Rachel Bernstein
Halle Clarke
David Daly (Trails Crew)
Sherry Horowitz
Jason Mencher
Eva Thaddeus (Garden Club)
Liaisons
Mayor Brian Pugh
Trustee Nora Moriarty Nicholson
Planning Board Member Steven Krisky

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Conservation Advisory Council
1 Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson N.Y. 10520

MINUTES FOR WEDNESDAY APRIL 16thth, 2025 7:30PM
This meeting was rescheduled from April 8th and relocated to the Community Room due to
a power outage.
•
•
•
•
•

John, Halle, Sherry, Jason and Eva were in attendance in person. Rachel attended via
zoom.
David could not make the rescheduled time but sent a written update after the
meeting, which is addended below.
The liaisons were not available at the rescheduled time due to pre-existing
obligations.
No members of the public were present.
John acted as Recording Secretary.

Meeting was called to order at approximately 7:34 pm ET.
1. MARCH MINUTES
a. March minutes were approved unanimously.
2. UPDATED PUBLIC COMMENT GUIDELINES – John
a. Members discussed the updated public comment guidelines and how best
to both foster public engagement and the need for the committee to have
time to focus on its work.
b. Sherry advocated for all agenda points being open for public comment.
c. A majority of other members preferred the existing rules which limit the
number of agenda points open for discussion (but which give us flexibility
to open others via majority vote), so the current rules were maintained.
3. VILLAGE IDLING LAW – Sherry
a. Sherry brought some literature from local and regional groups that details
the environmental impacts of idling, as well as details of the Village Law.
b. We agreed to display and discuss with public at the CAC table during Earth
Day.

c. We discussed the theme of enforcement across conservation laws in our
community. Trees, Leaf Blowers, Idling – a consistent complaint is
inconsistent, or seemingly non-existent, enforcement.
d. John discussed his request to the Board of Trustees for the new enforcement
team to come to a CAC meeting so we can discuss how to address this
ongoing issue.
4. REPAIR CAFÉ – John E. / Sherry
a. Sherry and John reported that both the Croton Free Library and Asbury
Methodist Church are interested in potentially hosting a repair café.
b. Insurance may remain a sticking point, so as soon as we have info on the iFixIt
insurance program we will pass it along to them.
c. Goal remains to get a café stood up at the soonest practicable time this year,
knowing that summer isn’t particularly ideal.
5. TRAILS - David D.
a. David was not present but sent the notes attached below after the meeting.
6. GARDEN CLUB - Eva / Halle
a. Eva discussed plans for the upcoming Gotwald Gardens planting.
7. DARK SKIES – Jason
a. Jason discussed his continuing research into Dark Skies
b. It was agreed that the best next step was to develop a letter of
recommendations to the Board of Trustees for them to consider.
8. CLEAN – John E.
a. John reported on:
i.

The successful Cub Scouts collaboration to clean up Sunset Park. (25
bags, 200 pounds of trash). Turnout 50+

ii. The successful cleanup of Dobbs Park and the 129. About 20 folks
showed up and cleaned up 20 bags of trash weighing around 300
pounds.
9. EARTH DAY- Committee
a. Detailed discussion of logistics and minutiae for the event.
10. PUBLIC COMMENT ON AGENDA ITEMS 8,9
a. There was no public comment.
11. RECORDING SECRETARY
a. Reminder to sign up here. Thx.
12. OPEN MIC / OLD BUSINESS

a. There was no additional business.
13. NEXT MEETING: TUESDAY, MAY 13th, 7:30PM
Meeting ended approximately 9:05 PM
David Daily Trails Update via email 4/17
•

We’ve reached the part of the year when I’m hiking on Tuesday nights. I’ll
make sure to get updates on the trails in ahead of each meeting, but don’t
expect me in person unless it’s really rainy.

•

Workday on March 22nd
o

•

We had 7 people show up, and we cleaned up the trail from the
municipal building and the rest of the north highland loop.

Next workdays on April 19th and May 17th. Both at 9 AM.
o

We’ll start at the Arboretum parking lot on the 19th.

o

Added to the community calendar

•

We have 4 people who have agreed to represent trails at Earth Day. I still
need to make a schedule.

•

In person meeting on April 7th
o

Good turnout and energy. We will likely do a few of these during the
year to plan the work for the group for the next season (Spring,
Summer, Fall)

o

We are going to catalog the trails and lengths, to answer how many
miles of trail we have.

o

We have some signs on trail heads with Maps. These are very nice
and helpful, like the one across the street from the Municipal building.
Can we get more made and installed? Ideally:
▪

Both sides of Lower North Highland where the trail crosses

▪

Two more on the North Highland Loop trail
▪

▪
o

there are 2 already, but there are two crossings, so 4
entrances. The entrances are not directly across the
street from each other.

Hessian Hills connector to Kaplan’s Pond

One of our members (Arda) was very interested in getting more native
plants in places, such as along 9A where road construction is
currently tearing stuff up, and at the entrance to Senasqua.

▪

This feels a better fit for CAC than the trails sub-committee.
Does this fit into other CAC efforts? Could I introduce him to
someone here to follow up with?

