Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, October 23, 2024, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Linda Whitehead
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker
Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini

Trustee Politi
Trustee Murtaugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the pledge
of allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
claims numbered 24251807-25252036. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$391,335.37
$28,013.64
$2,005.38
$64,021.67
-

3. NYCOM Award presented to Mark Duncan, Recreation Superintendent, recognizing
his 25 years of service with the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
4. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Public Hearing #1
A Motion to open a public hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 11 of 2024, which provides exemptions for first-time homebuyers
of newly constructed homes, improvements made to properties under the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, physically disabled crime victims, and
certified green building improvements was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy gave an overview of the proposed Local Law. To view the
entire Local Law, you may log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202410/98d27d9de46650736603f32e04ea6717d56caa91.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 2

COMMENTS:
Trustee Politi asked if there is an income limit for first time buyers and does this
also apply to condominiums.
Village Manager Healy advised that the income limit is defined by the State of New
York Mortgage Agency/Low-Interest Rate Mortgage Program and it applies to
condominiums as well.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that if someone improves the value of their home by
creating space for a grandparent which, in theory, raises the value of the home, is
the exemption based on that increased value?
Village Manager Healy explained that there are similar circumstances and
depending on specific exemptions, some or all of the additional costs might be
exempted but no one’s assessment would be lowered except potentially the Green
Building exemption. Village Manager Healy advised that the sunset for first time
homebuyer is December 31, 2028, which is set in the State Law, the
improvements made to properties under the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 and the physically disabled crime victims is permanent, and the green
building exemption phases out after ten years.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned
that other taxpayers will be footing that exemption, and asked where the
justification for this is, he does not understand why we are favoring one person
over another, and it is wrong to have neighbors paying for the benefit of others.
Cathy Connolly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if there is a price limit
on newly created properties?
Mayor Pugh stated that the prices are determined by the New York State Mortgage
Authority Home Lending Program and the eligibility criteria does change from year
to year, the price level for non-target areas is $1.1 million and the income
threshold for a three-person household is $174,940 as of July 22, 2024.
Cathy Connolly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that it doesn’t seem
fair that someone can purchase a $1.1 million dollar home and then get an
exemption, when people are saving just to purchase a modest home, she would
understand this if it was low income, and asked what the theory is behind this.
Mayor Pugh stated that you would have to discuss that question with the State of
New York Mortgage Authority, but he believes that the logic is more on the income

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 3

side and believes that it would be unlikely for a household earning $174,000 a year
to purchase a home for $1.1 million.
Village Manager Healy referred to page two of the Law that explains the
exemptions:
Newly constructed primary residential property purchased by one or more people,
each of whom is a first-time homebuyer, shall be exempt from taxation levied by
or on behalf of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, for a period of five years. Such
exemption shall be computed as follows:
Year of Exemption
1
2
3
4
5
6 or more

Percentage Assessed Valuation Exempt from Tax
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

Trustee Politi stated that there are other types of programs for first time home
buyers, but it is important to note that this is not going to raise taxes.
Trustee Murtaugh reminded everyone that this is to help first-time homebuyers
who are purchasing newly constructed homes that will add to the taxable values
for Croton and increase the flow of people moving into home ownership.
Roseann Schuyler, Olcott Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she does not
understand the policy justification for the first time homeowner exemption, people
who are first time home buyers, buying existing homes often have problems as
well and a tax exemption for those people might be more appropriate then
someone buying new construction where theoretically everything is new, if the
point is to encourage people to buy new construction it seems very unfair. Ms.
Schuyler also noted that this is being brought up when the Board is pushing a lot
of new housing.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes that
some members of the Board are being deceptive when it comes to new housing
developments in Croton, and they are allowing developers to dictate the pace and
asked the Board to pause on this Local Law, he expressed concerns of who may
have lobbied formally or informally for this particular law.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 4

There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Politi. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #200-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following resolution
was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York with
a 4-1 vote, with Trustee Nicholson voting Nay.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 204 of the Village Code on Taxation,
to provide for exemptions for first-time homebuyers of newly constructed homes,
improvements to property made pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
physically disabled crime victims, and for improvements to real property meeting
certification standards for green buildings, and
WHEREAS these exemptions were discussed at the May 15 and August 28 work sessions;
and WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 11 of 2024 has been drafted to reflect such
language; and WHEREAS, the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 11 of 2024, which was opened and closed on October 23, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 11 of 2024, to amend Chapter 204 of the Village Code on
Taxation, to provide for exemptions for first-time homebuyers of newly constructed
homes, improvements to property made pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, physically disabled crime victims, and for improvements to real property
meeting certification standards for green buildings, which upon adoption becomes Local
Law No. 14 of 2024.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that this is a local option under the New York State Real Property Tax
Law, in the case of the first time homebuyer, it is a reflection of the reality that was
highlighted by the County Planning Department, and more recently Hudson Valley
Pattern for Progress, that even someone earning the medium income of approximately
$150,000, if they had to purchase their home today under current market conditions they
would struggle, there is also recognition across the Board of issues of home affordability,
and the State of New York Mortgage Authority Program is an indication of the State’s
investment and support for first time home buyers.
Trustee Simon stated that he supports this being made available for existing homes and
suggested that we put this into our legislature package for the State’s consideration.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 5

Trustee Simon added that if there was to be a LOT A project, purchasers will be at
average medium incomes or below, and required to get a sizeable mortgage, and based
on what we know now, the purchasers would be barred from getting a mortgage at that
level, and believes that consideration of some tax exemption is appropriate but we will
see what happens after we do the analysis.
Trustee Nicholson stated that she has an issue with the new homeowner part of this Local
Law, and because LOT A would be subject to this law, she would like to understand the
fiscal ramifications. Trustee Nicholson stated that she supports all of the other
exemptions, and her preference is to amend the law and pull the first-time homeowner
clause out of the law.
Mayor Pugh asked if we remove that portion of the law would we have to re-notice the
law.
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that removing that portion would be a substantial
change and would need to be re-noticed. Village Attorney Whitehead added that it is
difficult to forecast the impact, because we do not know if any of the buyers will qualify.
Mayor Pugh stated that if LOT A is funded through the Affordable Home Ownership
Program, he believes the impact would be very modest, but we are talking about a finite
section of the home buying market, it is a modest reduction, and it is temporary, but we
have to see the actual analysis and we will ask AKRF to make this part of the fiscal
analysis.
WRITTEN COMMENTS
Email from Brian McAllister, 73 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, dated October 21,
2024, states that if the local law includes tax exemptions for LOT A he is against it, he is
concerned this will hurt current residents who will have to foot the bill and this law
misses the diminishing middle class and residents that bought prior builds.
Email from Chris Roose, 55 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, dated October 21, 2024,
stated that while he is sympathetic to the other justifications for tax exemptions, he is
opposed to the law as written, increasing the tax burden on existing homeowners shifts
the burden of affordability to current homeowners.
PUBLIC HEARING #2
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 13 of 2024, to amend and updated the seasonal parking
provisions of Chapter 215, Vehicles & Traffic, of the Village Code was made by

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 6

Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0
vote.
Village Manager Healy gave an overview of the proposed Local Law. To view the
Local Law, you may click onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202410/d5359842e9353d840cb6d03d5a5459e75b6c5339.pdf
COMMENTS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that Croton has one
of the best snow ordinances around, but in order to keep this good system, the
Village will need to enforce it.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
public hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Resolution #201-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to amend Chapter 215, Vehicles &
Traffic, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update provisions related to
seasonal parking, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2024 was drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
13 of 2024, which was opened and closed on October 23, 2024,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2024, amending Chapter 215, Vehicles & Traffic, of the
Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update provisions related to seasonal
parking, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 12 of 2024.
PUBLIC HEARING #3
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider the special permit application
submitted by Ryan Kao CTRH LLC for the construction of a three-story mixed-use

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 7

building at 325 South Riverside Avenue was made by Trustee Murtaugh. Motion
was seconded by Trustee Simon and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Architect Jorge Hernandez of ARQ Architects gave an overview of the proposed
project. To view the project, you may click of following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202407/c92e4fc8021275250a491fd59594337842c7f39f.pdf
Trustee Murtaugh asked for Mr. Hernandez to elaborate on the connection between
the Capriccio parking lot and the proposed building.
Mr. Hernandez stated that one of the comments they received was to have a
connection to South Riverside, but due to the configuration of Capriccio’s parking
lot, and the closeness of the two driveways, it was not feasible to have two
driveways adjacent to each other.
Village Manager Healy stated that there have been a lot of line-of-sight issues with
people coming out of the Capriccio’s parking lot onto South Riverside and making
an entrance into the Capriccio lot one-way would solve a lot of traffic conflicts in
that area.
Trustee Nicholson asked if that is the Board’s jurisdiction or should that be with the
Planning Board.
Village Manager Healy stated that it would be under the Site-Plan review process,
but the Board can make that recommendation to the Planning Board.
Trustee Simon stated that he believes the adjustments that were made to the
design are an improvement and thanked them for their hard work.
COMMENTS:
Cathy Connolly, 80 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the structure
does not fit in with the residential neighborhood, the Planning Board recommended
15 parking spaces as opposed to 19 with employees parking elsewhere, and the
question is where will they park, with respect to the 2nd floor, we should know how
many residential units are being proposed, she does not believe that all deliveries
can be made during off-hours, parking is a problem on Young Avenue, people
cannot pull out of the cul-de-sac from Oneida, there is a line of site problem and
suggested that one of those parking spaces be removed.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 8

Trustee Simon stated that should this project go to the Planning Board the design
issues will continue to be relevant as well as the parking issues.
Village Attorney Whitehead emphasized that the Board’s jurisdiction is the use, and
the details are with the Planning Board during the Site Plan Review process.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the project is
too big and sharing an entrance with Capriccio tells you it is too large, Mr. Mamone
stated that this project violates our Zoning Code which requires a 10 foot side yard
setback if the property is within 25 feet of a residential Zone, a rear yard setback
of 20 feet if it is connected to a residential property, and a building height of 2
stores. Mr. Mamone also addressed line of site issues at Oneida and South
Riverside Avenues.
Roseann Schuyler, Olcott Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that her office is on
the corner of South Riverside and Oneida Avenues, in the past several years the
traffic on South Riverside has increased because of development and would expect
that a high volume business like a pharmacy would also continue to bring a lot of
traffic to that area, there is parking on both sides of the street, the driving lanes
are narrow and it has become dangerous to navigate walking and driving in that
area. Ms. Schuyler stated that she is also concerned about the size of the building,
there is no specificity about the second floor; maybe it will be offices/maybe
residential and she does not see enough parking.
Peter Schuyler, Olcott Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he agrees we should
be supporting Save Mor Pharmacy, but this project has not been well thought out
with regards to its impact on the neighborhood, the three stories is not in
conformity with the Harmon area, if the proposed building was two stories it would
be much more palpable, but given the proposal it is humongous on this small lot,
he is also concerned that there will not be enough parking when the upper floors
are built out, and while he is not against development he is opposed to the size
and asked the Board not to approve this proposal.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked for clarification regarding
discussions about eliminating the Special Permit process for anything within the
Gateway District, as well as clarification if the Harmon Area is zoned for buildings
up to 35 feet in height. Mr. Riely also asked that the Board put in place a better
system when projects are being presented, an electric pointer system would make
it easier for the audience to understand what the presenter is talking about.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 9

Donn Gerelli, 25 Observatory Drive, Croton on Hudson and business owner at 321
S. Riverside Avenue, stated that this is a very busy intersection and is concerned
about safety, Save Mor is an essential business in our community, but he wants
the Board to consider the size of this project, there is not enough parking, just
before he came to the meeting there were eight overflow cars in the proposed
Save Mor parking lot from Capriccio’s patrons, cars were also parking on Oneida
and he is concerned it will effect other businesses in the area.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the weak link in
this project is the parking, as with many other proposed projects, which effects the
quality of life for Croton residents when parking exceeds what they are projecting.
Trustee Politi stated that she believes the parking that we are talking about would
be from the business on the first floor.
Kate Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the traffic on
Riverside Avenue is already a lot, and to add a building of this size is too much, it
is a bad area with respect to traffic, she is concerned they will be parking on
Oneida and Young Avenues and asked the board to stop urbanizing Croton.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Politi asked if the Board has the right to say that they can only do two
stories, and could they expand the parking.
Village Manager Healy stated that this property is in the Gateway District and the
height requirements in the Gateway District are three stories (35 feet).
Village Attorney Whitehead stated that the project is Zoning compliant because it
is in the Gateway District and the only way they would not get a Special Permit is if
the Board found that they were not compliant on another issue. Village Attorney
Whitehead stated that the sharing of entrances is something that is encouraged in
the Gateway District because it reduces the number of curb-cuts and helps with
parking spaces.
Trustee Nicholson asked if they considered underground parking.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 10

Jorge Hernandez of ARQ Architects Architect, stated that it was not feasible for this
size of building.
Village Attorney Whitehead asked if parking is compliant even if the second floor is
used for residential.
Jorge Hernandez advised that the additional apartment on the second floor is
calculated in the parking requirements.
Trustee Nicholson stated that this is a daytime business which already has issues
with parking, right now she does see it being a great fit for the neighborhood, and
for fairness to the Architect, the Board should really think about better guidelines
with respect to aesthetics so that developers have a better understanding of what
these structures should look like.
Village Manager Healy stated that the Visual Environment Board has been working
on putting together a booklet showing tasteful images with respect to aesthetics
and signage for the Village and is hopeful we will see that soon.
Trustee Politi stated that the Planning Board will ultimately be the one that will
deal with the aesthetic part, but the issue with parking in Harmon is a big problem
and we need to talk about other solutions that would make people more
comfortable with a project like this.
Jorge Hernandez stated that they looked at the peak hours of Save Mor and
Capriccio and having the parking lots connected, when Save Mor is closed, those
parking spaces would be available to Capriccio patrons as well as for Save Mor
customers during the daytime hours.
Trustee Murtaugh stated that the proposed building is a monolithic block and is not
a stylistically attractive building but does not want to take away the rights of a
property owner, and aesthetics is a question that he would leave to someone else.
Mayor Pugh stated that it cannot be a fair expectation for one parcel to solve the
parking challenges of the neighborhood, and a lot of that has to do with existing
businesses and our job is to make sure that this proposal does not add to those
challenges.
5. LWRP Consistency Review and EAF Part II Review for the Special Permit application
submitted by Ryan Kao of CTRH LLC for the construction of a three-story mixeduse building at 325 South Riverside Avenue

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 11

Short Environmental Assessment Form Part 2 - Impact Assessment Part 2
No, or
small
impact
may
occur
1. Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan
or zoning Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing
community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics
that caused the establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing
level of traffic or affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking
or walkway? The Board left this blank for further review.
6.

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails
to incorporate reasonably available energy conservation or renewable
energy opportunities?

√
√

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?

√

b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic,
archaeological, architectural or aesthetic resources?

√

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources
(e.g., wetlands, waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion,
flooding or drainage problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or
human health?

√

LWRP Consistency Review
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore,
revitalize,
and
redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses.

Applicable
Yes/No
No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 12

1A

1B

1C

2
2A

3

4

5

5A

6
6A

Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro-North train
station, while facilitating public access to
the bay area and recreational use.
Encourage restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Encourage the appropriate re-use of the
old sewage treatment plant site at the
intersection of Route 9A and Municipal
Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters.
Encourage water-enhanced commercial
uses where such uses complement water
dependent uses and do not result in
displacement of such uses.
Further develop the State’s existing major
ports of Albany, Buffalo, New York,
Ogdensburg and Oswego as centers of
commerce and industry, and encourage
the siting, in these port areas, including
those under the jurisdiction of State public
authorities, of land use and development
which is essential to, or in support of,
waterborne transportation of cargo and
people.
Strengthen the economic base of smaller
harbor areas by encouraging the
development and enhancement of those
traditional uses and activities which have
provided such areas with their unique
maritime identity.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 13

7

7A

7B

7C

7D

7E

7F

7G

Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Coastal Fish and Wildlife
Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant
Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be
protected and improved for conservation,
economic, aesthetic, recreational, and
other public uses and values. Its
resources shall be protected from the
threat
of
pollution,
misuse,
and
mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat and
the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of or
allowed to drain in, or on land within, the
area of influence in the significant fish and
wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat
or Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted
within the area of influence of the habitat
unless best available technology is used
to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitats and shorelands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of
any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
site
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively managed so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact to the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion
or flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity in the Croton River and Hudson
River spawning areas shall be timed so
that spawning of anadromous fish species
and shellfish will not be adversely
affected.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause significant degradation of water

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 14

7H

8

9

9A

9B

10

11

12

quality or impact identified significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Habitat-related policies identified in the
Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed
Conservation Action Plan will be
considered in actions proposed for these
areas (see Appendix C).
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous waste and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub-lethal or lethal
effects on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Village
owned land adjacent to the railroad
parking lot, at Croton Point Park, at
Senasqua and Croton Landing Parks,
along the Croton River, and at the Croton
Yacht Club. Efforts should be made to
increase opportunities for public access
and enjoyment in these areas.
Encourage
passive
recreational
enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated
significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the
Audubon Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle
Arboretum, Gouveia Park and on other
public or private lands within the Village
where wildlife habitats are located, as well
as the protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new, or improvement of
existing onshore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
State's seafood products, maintaining
adequate
stocks
and
expanding
aquaculture facilities.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion.
Activities or development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and
bluffs.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 15

12A

13

14

15

16

17

17A

18

19

Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier
to Croton Bay from activities or
development that would increase erosion
of or flooding of the point.
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at
least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or
assured maintenance or replacement
programs.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at
other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which
supply beach materials to land adjacent to
such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase
in erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
able to function, or existing development;
and only where the public benefits
outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for
increasing erosion and adverse effects on
natural protective features.
Non-structural measures to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion shall be used
whenever possible.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes inland shall be of
nature,
wherever
a
non-structural
possible, to minimize the visual impact of
structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the State
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to
the safeguards which the State has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public water-

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 16

19A

19B

19C

19D

20

21

21A

22

23

24

related recreation resources and facilities
Encourage the linkage of open space from
upland areas to and along the Hudson
and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or
walkway system.
Increase public access to areas that offer
physical and visual connections to the
Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the improvement of public
transportation, when feasible, where water
dependent
and
water-enhanced
recreation activities are located.
Improve and maintain access to Croton
River and Bay at the Village-owned Echo
Canoe Launch south of the Village
parking lots at the Croton-Harmon Station
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. 19
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast.
Boating and fishing activities should be
encouraged provided that they do not
restrict other water-related recreational
opportunities and are undertaken in a
manner compatible with existing waterdependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to
the shore will provide for water-related
recreation whenever such use is
compatible with reasonably anticipated
demand for such activities and is
compatible with the primary purpose of
the development.
HISTORIC AND SCENIC QUALITY
POLICIES
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, areas or sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources
of statewide significance. (The nearest
scenic area of statewide significance
(SASS) is the Bear Mountain Park subunit
of the Hudson Highlands SASS which is

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 17

25

25A

26
27

28

29

30

30A

31

north of the Village)
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified
as
being
of
statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Establish and protect identified public
viewsheds of the Hudson River,
including but not limited to the public
views of the Hudson River from the
western shoreline of the Village, and of
the Croton River and Gorge.
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Conserve and protect agricultural lands in
the State’s coastal area.
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
interfere
with
the
production
of
hydroelectric power, damage significant
coastal fish and wildlife and their habitats,
or increase shoreline erosion or flooding..
The development of offshore uses and
resources, including renewable energy
resources, shall accommodate New
York’s long-standing ocean and Great
Lakes industries, such as commercial and
recreational
fishing
and
maritime
commerce, and the ecological functions of
habitats important to New York.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited
to,
toxic
and
hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to State and National water
quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose of any
regulated materials in coastal waters until
all such regulated materials have been
tested by the State for conformance with
water quality standards.
State coastal area policies and
management objectives of approved local
waterfront revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal water
classifications and while modifying water
quality standards; however, those waters
already overburdened with contaminants
will be recognized as being a

No

No

No
No
No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 18

32

33

33A

34

34A
35

36

37

37A

38

39

development constraint.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used
to ensure the control of stormwater runoff
and combined sewer overflows draining
into coastal waters.
The flow of stormwater discharge shall be
controlled to limit the flow of pollutants
from street, and parking areas, etc.
directly into the rivers and water bodies.
Discharge of waste materials into coastal
waters from vessels subject to State
jurisdiction will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply
areas..
Moored structures or marine vessels shall
not discharge ballast water or other
releases into the waterway.
Dredging and filling in coastal waters and
disposal of dredged material will be
undertaken in a manner that meets
existing State permit requirements, and
protects significant fish and wildlife
habitats, scenic resources, natural
protective features, important agricultural
lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at least minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these
spills occur.
Best management practices will be
utilized to minimize the non-point
discharge of excess nutrients, organics
and eroded soils into coastal waters.
Control of the development of hilltops and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid waste, particularly

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 19

40

41
42

43

44
44A

hazardous waste, within coastal areas will
be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to State water quality standards..
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or State air
quality standards to be violated.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the State reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant
amounts
of
acid
rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
WETLAND POLICY
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.
LWRP SECTION IV PROPOSED LAND
USES AND PROJECTS
CROTON RIVER BASIN PROJECTS

1.

2.

3.

ENSURE MAINTENANCE OF NEW
CROTON DAM CONSERVATION FLOW
Maintaining natural river flows below
water supply reservoirs is inherently
complicated and requires a difficult
balance between human demands and
sustainable flows to conserve a river’s
ecological health
ADDRESS DRAINAGE SYSTEMS THAT
LEAD TO EROSION ON STEEP
SLOPES
The objective of this project is to promote
activities that will control soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by stormwater
runoff. These issues are most significant
along the steep banks of the Croton River
Gorge
FACILITATE UPGRADES TO CATCH
BASINS AND OUTFALLS TO ADDRESS
FLOATABLES
IN
CROTON
BAY

No

Yes
No

No

No
No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 20

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

The intent of this project is to control
stormwater runoff discharges and other
pollutants from entering Croton Bay.
Protecting the ecological health of Croton
Bay and River is a priority for the Village.
FACILITATE UPGRADES TO CROTONHARMON PARKING LOT TO ADDRESS
FLOATABLES
IN
CROTON
BAY
The
parking
facility
is
currently
overwhelmed by asphalt paving with rows
of cars. There is minimal landscaping or
greenery, and in certain areas, parking
directly abuts wetland areas in Croton
Bay. The Village should consider
implementing green infrastructure within
the parking lot in order to capture runoff
onsite and reduce sewer overflows.
IMPROVE ECHO CANOE LAUNCH AND
VILLAGE-OWNED LAND AT THE
SOUTHERN END OF THE TRAIN
STATION PARKING LOT
This project supports the continued
improvement of this recreational area to
enhance public access to the Croton River
and Bay and the Hudson River
RELOCATE VILLAGE DPW FACILITY,
SALT SHED AND MATERIAL STORAGE
AREA
The DPW operates a salt storage shed at
the southern end of the Croton-Harmon
parking lot. There is also an uncovered
storage area near the salt shed for rocks
and other construction materials which
can leach directly into Croton Bay from
the facility.
HUDSON RIVERFRONT PROJECTS
FACILITATE ACCESS TO THE
HUDSON RIVER WATERFRONT
A recurring comment from public input
during this LWRP process and prior plans
was the need to improve access to the
Hudson River waterfront for vehicles,
pedestrians, and bicyclists. Although there
have been some improvements such as
the Brook Street pedestrian bridge, in
general, access to the waterfront is
limited, and difficult in some locations.
FACILITATE CROTON YACHT
CLUB/CROTON LANDING
IMPROVEMENTS
The concept of a waterfront restaurant, or
another use at the southern end of Croton
Landing Park, adjacent to the Croton
Yacht Club, has been discussed by the
Village for years. Parking is also an issue
as there is already insufficient on-site
parking at Croton Landing Park to satisfy

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 21

9.

10.

11.

demand during busy hours.
IMPLEMENT SEGMENT OF
RIVERWALK TRAIL FROM CROTON
LANDING PARK TO OSCAWANA
COUNTY PARK
According to the Hudson River Trailway
Plan (2003), Westchester County has
proposed a 1-mile trail along the Hudson
River that would connect Croton Landing
Park with Oscawana County Park in
Cortlandt. This trail would fill a gap
between the River Walk trails at these two
parks.
VILLAGE -WIDE PROJECTS
UNDERTAKE MANAGEMENT AND
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR
VILLAGE PARKS, TRAILS, OPEN
SPACES AND MEMORIALS
This project supports the creation of a
Parks
Maintenance
and
Capital
Improvement Plan to address ongoing
care and protection of existing parks,
open spaces, and trails. The goal would
be to provide an action plan for regular
maintenance
and
target
capital
improvements when needed.
DEVELOP PLAN FOR FUTURE USE OF
GOUVEIA PARK
The purpose of this project is for the
Village to create a conceptual plan that
will examine how to best utilize the
Gouveia Park, a 15.63-acre site acquired
by the Village.

6. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none.
7. CORRESPONDENCE:
a.

Resignation letter from Janet Monahan, Chair of the Croton Conservation
Advisory Council (CCAV).
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202410/9945d1a41dc65b1c6f93af8f2834d1f04b2b8f9a.pdf
Mayor Pugh read an email from Conservation Advisory Council member John
Ealer dated October 23, 2024, he states in his email that he is grateful to
Janet Monahan for her exemplary service, leadership, kindness and tenacity
as the Chair for the last five years, she was incredibly supportive of the
efforts to grow the CLEAN initiative, and he was inspired by the countless
hours she invested in organizing Earth Day and the Repair Café events.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 22

8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, suggested that an electric
pointer be implemented when presentations are made, would like to know where
this Special Permit process is going to be eliminated as described in the meeting
last week, and asked that every time the Board offers special tax programs, a cost
estimate should be made so that the public knows how much it is costing the
Village.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that his
neighborhood has suffered with traffic and parking from the creation of the
Harmon Gateway District, Oneida Avenue already has an issues with parking and
he is concerned about the additional traffic the 325 Riverside Avenue project will
create, he does not support e-bikes usage in the Village because users to not
follow rules and do not require insurance.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the expansion
of the Gateway District was not to the benefit of our residents, perhaps the Board
should slow down development so we can holistically look at the impacts these
new projects have on our community with respect to parking, traffic, taxation, and
Village resources and he does not support getting rid of the Special Permit process
in the Gateway District.
Sandra Kolk, 114 Elmore Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked the Board to highlight
the changes to the Freedom of Information Process.
9. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #202-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote.
WHEREAS the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson provides for the reservation of
parkland and the payment of fees in lieu thereof concerning new developments, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees wishes to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code to clarify these provisions, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2024 has been drafted for such purposes;
and

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 23

WHEREAS on July 24, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead Agency for
SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS on October 9, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process and
review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the EAF “Determination of Significance”
attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No.
10 of 2024, which was opened and closed on October 9, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the
LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on October 9, 2024, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP Policy standards and
conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees makes the
following findings regarding the applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of
the Proposed Action with those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found
applicable:
POLICY 19: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.
POLICY 19A: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.
POLICY 19B: Increase public access to areas that offer physical and visual connection to
the Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
POLICY 23: Protect, enhance, and restore structures, districts, areas, or sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above, were
reviewed and found not to be applicable, and

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 24

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action complies with the policy standards
and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts
the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a
Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local Law
Introductory No. 10 of 2024, to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson regarding the reservation of parkland associated with new residential
developments and subdivisions and the payment of fees in lieu thereof, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 13 of 2024.
Resolution #203-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been selected to participate in Project
MOVER, an E-bikeshare program designed to enhance mobility and provide
environmentally friendly transportation alternatives, and
WHEREAS Shared Mobility Inc. and Drop Mobility have conducted a preliminary analysis
and site assessment, identifying potential locations for E-bikeshare stations within the
Village as detailed in the Preliminary Siting Memo, which includes both primary and
secondary locations, and
WHEREAS the Project MOVER E-bikeshare initiative aligns with the Village's goals of
promoting sustainability, reducing carbon emissions, and increasing access to public
transit options, as well as providing safe, equitable, and reliable transportation, and
WHEREAS the Village is prepared to enter into a Site Agreement with Shared Mobility Inc.
to finalize the deployment of bikeshare stations on municipal property and within public
rights of way, subject to review by the appropriate Village departments and community
stakeholders,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign
the attached Letter of Intent with Shared Mobility Inc. and Drop Mobility, confirming the
Village's commitment to supporting Project MOVER and moving forward with the
finalization of site locations.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 25

DISCUSSION
Trustee Simon stated that this will be a satellite of Ossining’s program, the Program
Manager looked at some sites and we look forward to working with the community as we
make some final decisions to placement of these bikes.
Trustee Nicholson stated that this could be a solution to some of our parking issues in the
Village and she looks forward to it starting.
Mayor Pugh thanked Deputy Mayor Simon for his leadership on this and for working with
both the Sustainability Committee and the Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee on this very
worthwhile initiative.
Resolution #204-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote.
WHEREAS the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department is in the process of acquiring a new
Fire Boat to replace an existing vessel in its marine operations that was retired after 30
years of service, and
WHEREAS the Village was awarded two State and Municipal Facilities Program grants in
2022 in the amounts of $100,000 and $125,000, respectively, for the purchase of the
new Fire Boat, and
WHEREAS the Fire Boat was purchased off a GSA contract, which allowed the Village to
receive competitive pricing without going to bid, and
WHEREAS continuing discussions with the manufacturer have led to the drafting of
Change Order 2, with a change amount of $1,625, and
WHEREAS Change Order 2 encompasses the installation of a small electric heater
element in the bilge/fire pump space for winterization, the addition of webbed netting in
the lower cabin to secure rescue equipment, and a minor cost overrun related to the
boat's graphics package, and
WHEREAS the change order also includes a credit reflecting the decision to send three
committee members to the final factory inspection instead of the originally budgeted
four, due to scheduling conflicts, and a credit reflecting the cancellation of one factory
inspection trip, and

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 26

WHEREAS the change order has been reviewed by the Village Manager and has been
deemed necessary for the optimal operation and safety of the new Marine 12 Fire Boat,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson hereby authorizes the Village Manager to sign Change Order 2 with Inventech
Marine Solutions LLC, of Bremerton, WA, in the change amount of $1,625.
Resolution #205-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 13 of 2024 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 23, 2024, and
WHEREAS Local Law No. 13 of 2024 amends the Village of Croton-on-Hudson's Zoning
Code to update the requirements for reserving parkland in residential developments and
allows for the collection of fees in lieu of parkland when suitable land is unavailable, with
the funds designated for parks and recreation purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village desires to update the current fee schedule to more accurately
reflect the costs associated with maintaining and improving the Village’s parks and
recreational areas, and
WHEREAS the Board of Trustees is authorized to establish such fees by resolution and set
them forth in the Master Fee Schedule,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby amends the
2024-2025 Master Fee Schedule as follows:
Fee In Lieu of Parkland

§230-73
§230-73
§230-73
§230-73
§230-123

Efficiency (studio) or 1 bedroom
2- Bedrooms
3- Bedrooms
Single family dwelling unit (attached or
detached), regardless of number of bedrooms
Sub-Divisions

$6,000/unit
$8,000/unit
$10,000/unit
$12,000/unit
$12,000 per lot

Resolution #206-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 27

WHEREAS on July 5, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees adopted a Freedom of
Information Law (FOIL) Policy governing the release of public records in the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS at that time, the Village Manager was designated as the FOIL Appeals Officer
regarding denial of access to records under the Freedom of Information Law, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees wishes to serve as the body hearing FOIL appeals
moving forward,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby adopts the updated
FOIL Policy as attached hereto designating the Village Board as the body determining
FOIL appeals.
DISCUSSION:
Village Attorney Whitehead explained that the policy states that the Village Clerk and the
Deputy Village Clerk are the Records Officers, since the Village Manager serves as the
Deputy Village Clerk it was determined that there was a conflict, and it was
recommended that appeals should come before the Board of Trustees. Village Attorney
Whitehead reminded everyone that prior to 2022, the Appeals Officer was the Board of
Trustees.
Resolution #207-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE MURTAUGH, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote.
WHEREAS, Chapter 197-15 of the Village Code, Snow and Ice on Sidewalks, provides for
the property owner or lessee to keep the adjoining sidewalk free from snow and ice,
subject to certain parameters specified in the law, and
WHEREAS Chapter 197-15, subsection D, provides for the Village to cause the snow and
ice to be removed from the sidewalk if not done by the homeowner within the prescribed
12-hour period, and
WHEREAS the Village released a request for proposals on September 12, 2024, with a
return date of October 10, 2024, and
WHEREAS a total of three proposals were received, two of which were compliant with the
terms of the RFP, and

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 28

WHEREAS New England Property Maintenance of Mahopac, New York, was the low
respondent to the RFP, and
WHEREAS the Village has previously worked with this contractor and been satisfied with
their work,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
enter into a contract with New England Property Maintenance, of Mahopac, New York, for
snow removal services for the 2024-2025 winter season at the following rates:
Minimum charge per property: $70
Snow removal of 4 inches or less: $0.20 per square foot
Snow removal of greater than 4 inches: $0.50 per square foot
Use of calcium chloride (for icy conditions): $70 per bag
Resolution #208-2024
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote. Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson uses a Formax FD1500 Auto Sealer (folding
machine) for the large-scale processing of billing throughout the year, and
WHEREAS this folding machine is over 15 years old and integral to the Village’s regular
operations, and
WHEREAS the folding machine requires maintenance and repair, not included in the Fiscal
Year 2025 Adopted Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $1,220 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
account: A1680.4000 - Data Processing-Contractual: $1,220.00
10. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riley, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the Board to look at
single family homes as opposed to large scale developments in the Village, in the
ten years between 2010-2020 Croton had a 3% growth in population and a 50%
increase in density and opposes the way density figures are misused when
presenting development proposals. Mr. Riley stated that he was not aware that

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 29

the MTA had a guaranteed right to purchase the LOT A property, yet it was
amazing how fast the Village was able to get the MTA to rescind that right.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked the village to
enforce the dog ordinance, commercial vehicles parking on Young and Oneida
Avenues need to be addressed, does not believe that we do not have enough
housing in Croton, it is just an excuse to jam these projects into Croton, e-bikes,
and mopeds can be dangerous, they do not require insurance or drivers licenses
and there is no enforcement of laws pertaining to these vehicles.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
concerned with the change in the FOIL Law, and asked if there is a secondary
option to appeal, and asked the Board to explain the modifications of the Special
Permit requirements and where that would apply to.
11. APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Motion to approve the minutes as amended of the Regular Meeting held on
October 9, 2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi not present at
the time of this vote)
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on October 16,
2024, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Murtaugh and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi not present at the time of
this vote)
12. REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson stated that there have been some discussions regarding our EMS
services on Facebook, it is important for the Board to have a conversation about
these services and assure everyone that the Board is not making anyone unsafe.
Trustee Nicholson wished Janet Monaham well on her retirement, she was a
fantastic Chair of the Conservation Advisory Council, and she will be missed, the
Green Living Series is back at the Library, Tuesday evening, October 29th from
7:00pm-8:30pm, to talk about Dark Skies.
Village Manager Healy stated that he will be reaching out to our EMS requesting
response data of our volunteers, verses response calls that are being fielded
exclusively by our paid EMT and the Ossining Paramedics and once we get that
data we can certainly schedule that discussion.

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 30

Trustee Simon updated everyone on the following:
•

Sunday October 13th the Welcome Wagon welcomed new residents at Senasqua
Park,

•

October 15th the Planning Board finalized the Croton Auto Park Energy Storage
System as well as amendments to the upcoming Café and performing space at 130
Grand,

•

October 17th the Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee met where they reviewed our
New York Forward application,

•

On Saturday, Family Fun day at Vassallo Park was held and honored Mark Duncan,

•

Saturday night, along with the American Legion, they honored Korean and Vietnam
Veterans,

•

congratulated the organizers for a successful Harry Chapin Run,

•

today, he and Trustee Murtaugh met with the Waterfront Advisory Committee,

•

this coming Saturday Drug Take Back Day will be held as well as the Halloween
Dog Parade,

•

this past Monday, he and Assistant to the Village Manager Emily Mancini meet with
Girl Scout Troop 1233 at Village Hall.
Trustee Murtaugh advised that the Police Advisory Committee in conjunction with
the Police Department and Croton Caring is in the beginning stages of putting
together a bicycle giveaway program, gently used bicycles can be dropped off at
the Police Department or at 22 Lexington, for more information you may reach out
to Croton Caring Committee.
Mayor Pugh explained that the Board is looking at designating another Board for
the review of Special Permits, it is often the case in other communities that it is
not handled by the legislative body but a quasi-judicial body like the Planning
Board or Zoning Board of Appeals. Mayor Pugh encouraged anyone who would like
to hear the Boards entire discussion in more detail they can log onto the following:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/992.
Mayor Pugh advised that he participated in the Fun Run/Walk as well as the
recognition of Vietnam and Korean Veterans, details on the Community Blood
Drive can be found on the Village’s website, thanked the Town of Cortlandt for

Village Board of Trustees
October 23, 2024
Page 31

extending the deadline for the “Operation Snow-Flake Program”, anyone interested
in enrolling in the program can reach to the Town of Cortlandt.
Village Manager Healy explained that when a Freedom of Information Request
comes into the Village, the Village Clerk reviews it and makes a determination
whether or not we can release the records, that decision is made in consultation
with the Village Attorney, once the inquirer is notified, if the request has been
denied, the inquirer has thirty days to appeal, and that would then come to the
Board for a final decision. Village Manager Healy advised that the Freedom of
Information Law sets guidelines as to what can be held back and if it does not fall
within those parameters the records can be released. More Information of the
Freedom of Law can be found by going to the following website:
https://opengovernment.ny.gov/freedom-information-law
Village Manager Healy responded to a question that was asked regarding the
Kayak Agreement: in the most recent agreements, the fees that were paid for the
storage area was $1,265 in 2022, $1,391 in 2023 and $1,531 in 2024, in addition
to that rental fee, they were required to pay the Village $1,225 or a percentage of
their gross income (whichever is higher) and in 2022 it was 8 ½%, in 2023 8.75%
and in 2024 it was 9%. Village Manager Healy stated that he has spoken with Mr.
Clark about the renewal, and we have been exchanging information about what we
believe are reasonable terms.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson
and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi not present at the time of this vote)
Meeting adjourned at 10:02pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
___________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

