Planning Board Meeting Minutes
September 17, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz (Absent)
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky {Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Acting Chairman Geoff Haynes called the Planning Board meeting of September 17th, 2024 to order at
8:00 p.m.
2.

NEW BUSINESS:
a) Pesavento, Bruno, 10 Hudson Street (79.09-1-57) Application for an Accessory
Apartment

Bruno Pesavento was present in support of the application. The applicant stated that he purchased the
house approximately one year ago and has since remedied all violations and brought the house up to
code. Currently, the applicant is applying to convert the second floor into an accessory apartment.
The proposed accessory apartment space is within the square footage that is required and has a
separate entrance that is not visible from the street. There is ample off-street parking. No trees were
taken down for this project.
The Planning Board confirmed that neighbor notification was sent out to neighbors within 100 feet and
there were no comments. Acting Chairperson Geoff Haynes read out the resolution and invited
comments from the audience. There were no comments from the audience.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the accessory apartment for Bruno Pesavento at 10 Hudson
Street, with the conditions listed on the resolution, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, by a vote of
3-0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent.

b)

Fields, Maria, Sprocket Power - 1 Municipal Place (78. 12-3-2) Amended Site Plan Croton Auto Park for Battery Energy Storage System

Maria Fields of Sprocket Power was present in support of the application. The applicant was granted a
special permit from the Board of Trustees for a battery energy storage system and is here tonight to get
amended site plan approval for the updated plans that are being presented that show the equipment that
was originally on South Riverside Avenue moved further back on the property. The applicant reported
that Con Edison was more flexible than she anticipated and that Con Edison also agreed to move their
transformer to the back of the property.
The applicant, the Planning Board, and the property owner are all pleased with these revised plans as
you can not see much of the equipment from the street. The Planning Board received feedback from

1

Westchester County Planning Board who suggested moving the equipment and reaching out to the
Department of Transportation, but with the revised plans, there is nothing near the highway right of way,
so Dan O'Connor did not feel that it was necessary to reach out to the Department of Transportation.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to call for a public hearing on the amended site plan submitted by
Sprocket Power, for 1 Municipal Place, Croton Auto Park, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a
vote of 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes August 20th, 2024

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of August 20th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being
absent.
Ed Riely of 11 O Truesdale Drive spoke and asked if there would be a period for public comment at
Planning Board meetings. Acting Chairperson Geoff Haynes said that as per the recently approved
Planning Board Rules and Policies, speakers, other than applicants, may speak to an agenda item for up
to three (3) minutes, upon approval of the majority of Planning Board members. For a public hearing,
speakers, other than applicants, may speak to an agenda for up to five (5) minutes. The Planning Board
gave approval for Ed Riely to speak on the ADU agenda item. Ed Riely said that he supports ADUs in
general, but at times they are inappropriate, due to neighbor objections. Ed Riely stated that there are
areas in the Hudson Valley that have been destroyed by ADUs, and gave Brewster, NY as an example of
a community that was ruined by ADUs. Ed Riely commended the Planning Board's recommendation that
certain areas were too dense for AD Us. Mr. Riely also thanked the Planning Board for their views on
Parking Lot A and agreed that it was a good site for housing, but should be the right size {smaller) and
done properly.

4.

ADJOURNMENT

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to adjourn, seconded by John Ghegan, and the Planning Board meeting
adjourned, at 8:23 p.m. with a vote of 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
*** Minutes approved, as amended, at the Planning Board meeting on October 1st, 2024 with a
motion by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 3 - 0, with Rob
Luntz, and John Ghegan being absent. ***

2

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on September 17th, 2024 the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from Bruno Pesavento for an accessory apartment permit on the property
located at 10 Hudson Street and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot 57; and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the
said accessory apartment; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, Bruno Pesavento is the owner and primary occupant of the single-family dwelling in which the
accessory apartment is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment has a separate entrance not visible from the street, as is required;
and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment of 576 +/- square feet and is less than the required maximum 800
square feet, and more than the minimum of 300 square feet, and
WHEREAS, the apartment is 38.4% of the habitable floor area of the dwelling which is slightly less than the
40% maximum specified in the Zoning Code,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
Bruno Pesavento for the accessory apartment as shown on the floor plans prepared for this application,
submitted August 31st, 2024, and subject to Section 230-41 (C) of the Village Code and the following
conditions:

1.

Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment or accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the
Building Department confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required
and that they are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and accessory
cottages and will remain in compliance. Such notice shall be provided within 90 days
of the change of ownership. Failure to timely file will result in a revocation of the
accessory apartment or accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to
make a new application.:
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman (Absent)
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by John Ghegan, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 3 to 0.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on September 17th, 2024.

