Planning Board Meeting Minutes
April 15, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Daniel Pozin, Village Attorney
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of April 15th, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Garschagen, Walter & Hawley, Lynn - 2 Lounsbury Road (67.20-2-31) -Accessory Dwelling
Unit Application
Homeowners Walter Garschagen and Lynn Hawley were present in support of the application. Walter
Garschagen said that the plan is to build a 697 square foot accessory dwelling unit in their side yard, with
one bedroom, taking advantage of the Habitat for Humanity funding. Lynn Hawley stated that they never
intend to have an Airbnb. Chairman Luntz complemented the applicants on a complete application, and
said that the proposed ADU fits in the code. Dan O'Connor confirmed that there were no issues with
zoning or setbacks. Dan O'Connor pulled up an image of the driveway on their property that is off Old
Post Road North and showed that there are multiple off-street parking spaces. Some asphalt will be
removed and there will be a new parking area added with permeable pavers.
Geoff Haynes asked about screening in terms of the next-door neighbor, and the applicant reported that
they had spoken to the neighbor, who does not have objections, as the proposed parking area is on the
side of their house, where they do not normally look. Geoff Haynes also asked why the 24" Maple Tree
was to be removed, and it is because, based on its location, the roots would be cut and it would be killed
in the construction process. Geoff Haynes asked about the plan to maintain any runoff during construction
and the applicant pointed out that there is a silt fence shown on the plans. Geoff Haynes asked if the silt
fence, as shown on the plans could be extended to the property line. Geoff Haynes asked if hay bales
would be needed, and the applicant stated that they could add hay bales. Dan O'Connor said that the silt
fence should be fine as the grade is not too steep. There is a catch bason on Lounsbury Road.
The applicant stated that the heating and hot water will be electric. Sewer and water will be connected to
the primary residence. Eva Thaddeus asked about the Habitat for Humanity program, and the applicant
said that with this program, you must commit to rent to a tenant for 10 years, in exchange for up to
$125,000. This accessory dwelling unit can be rented to a single person, or two people, but could not be
used for an airbnb.

1

Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience and Tom Quartuccio of 1 Lounsbury Road spoke
and expressed concern about the parking plan. Mr. Quartuccio has lived in his home on Lounsbury
Road, across the street from the project, for over 50 years and has seen a dramatic increase in traffic.
Mr. Quartuccio said that the applicants currently drive into their driveway from Old Post Road North, and
exit, forward facing on Lounsbury Road. Mr. Quartuccio believes that all the parking should be behind the
existing house. Mr. Quartuccio also has concerns about a large locust tree, almost 4-foot in diameter,
that is 20 feet from the new residence. Mr. Quartuccio has no objections to the house being built, but
would like the parking plan to be changed.
The applicant responded to Mr. Quartuccio's concerns saying that the plans are not designed for the ADU
tenants to park in the back there is no connection or path for the tenants to get to their house if they
parked behind the existing house. The applicant reiterated that the driveway in question is existing, and
that during construction, it will be made wider.
Chairman Luntz noted that he liked the separation of parking for the two residences, and that the issues
that are raised by Mr. Quartuccio are existing, and not caused by this application. John Ghegan
suggested that a mirror could be placed on the locust tree, to help with backing out of the driveway, and
the applicants were open to this suggestion. The applicants reported that they had "Conserve A Tree"
come out to look at the locust tree and that Conserve A Tree will be taking some branches off the tree.
Chairman Luntz read out a portion of the resolution with standard conditions, including a tree removal
component and change of ownership requirements.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the application for an Accessory Dwelling Unit at 2 Lounsbury
Road with the added condition that the silt fence shown on the site plan be extended to the property line,
seconded by John Ghegan, and carried 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.

b} Matra Group, LLC - 1380 Albany Post Rost (67.10-2-14 & 15) -Application for Extension of
Site Plan Approval
Property owner Anthony Matra and attorney Jacqueline Cohen were present in support of the
application. Jacqueline Cohen stated that their current site plan approval expires in October of 2025,
and a condition in their resolution requires that any application for an extension be made six months
prior to the expiration date. Jacqueline Cohen confirmed that a building permit application has been
submitted, which was outsourced for an external review. Dan O'Connor reported that La Bella reviewed
the plans, sent comments to the architect, and are now waiting for the revised plans. The applicant
expects that the plans will be resubmitted in the next four weeks, but in an abundance of caution, are
requesting that the site plan approval be extended for two years, considering that the application must
be made six months prior to the expiration date.
Anthony Matra confirmed that there have been no changes in the site conditions
since the initial
1
approval was given for this project. When asked about the septic system plans, the applicant stated that
the sewage treatment plant owner had no interest in letting this building tie into an existing sewer, so the
property will have a septic system. Anthony Matra confirmed that the easement situation has been
resolved since this application was last in front of the Planning Board. Regarding a crosswalk for
pedestrians to cross Albany Post Road, the applicant stated that DOT would not consider a traffic light or
crosswalk be added near the property on Albany Post Road. Lastly, Geoff Haynes asked the applicant
and the applicant confirmed that they remained willing to let the Croton Harmon Fire Department have
access to the current building for training, prior to it being demolished.

2

In terms of timing for the project, the applicant had originally wanted to start construction this summer,
but these things take longer than expected. Once the project begins, it will take approximately two years
to complete. Geoff Haynes asked about the resources of the engineering department with the potential
of having two large scale projects running concurrently, and Dan O'Connor reported that there is funding
in the budget for an additional building inspector to be hired, and, the Village can bring in consultants if
necessary.
The applicant has not decided on a name for this building.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the resolution to extend site plan approval for the Matra Group,
LLC at 1380 Albany Post Road for a period of two years, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion
carried, 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.

3.

PUBLIC HEARING

a) WBP Development, LLC, - 1 Croton Point Avenue (79.17-1-5, 4 & 3) Application for Site
Plan Approval for five-story building with 100 dwelling units and Subdivision Approval for
Consolidation Subdivision.
John Bainlardi of WBP Development, and Michael Bevivino of Arketekcher Architecture were present in
support of the application . The applicants reported that they made the formal application for the sewer
tie in and are in touch with the County for assistance on the application . The applicants also reported
engaging an attorney regarding their discussions with the DOT about the surplus land on the property
that they were hoping to improve on with some landscaping. The applicants reported that the Village is
hiring a traffic consultant to monitor the traffic signals. The traffic consultant will be paid from an escrow
account set up by the applicants, and the findings from that study will be shared with the Planning Board.
Geoff Haynes asked the applicants for updates on the state funding, and John Bainlardi did not have
much to report, other than they met with people and are optimistic.
John Ghegan asked if there were fire doors in the main hallways on floors one through five and the
applicants replied that no, there are not fire doors in the hallways on these floors . The applicants
continued that the hallway will be rated and the stairwells will have fire doors. John Ghegan asked what
the ceiling of the underground parking area would be made of would be and the applicant stated that it
would be concrete. Lastly, John Ghegan asked for clarification as to the number of parking spaces and
the applicants confirmed that there are 105 parking spaces, including the electric vehicle spaces, and
that the number was updated as they found space for an additional five parking spots . Regarding the
number of electric vehicle charging spaces, the applicants say that this will depend on what the funding
sources require, and what New York State requires. There is an exemption for affordable housing that
does not have to comply with the e/v chargers, but again, it will depend on the funding sources. Also, in
response to a question asked at a previous meeting, they will probably not assign parking spaces to
particular units.
Geoff Haynes asked about the marketing plan for the building and what the applicants were thinking in
terms of cost of the units. John Bainlardi said that they were projecting that the one-bedroom units
would sell in the $320,000-$330,000 range, with a $40,000-$50,000 increase for two-bedrooms, but that
this will change as area median income changes. When asked what homeowner's association fees
would be, John Bainlardi estimated between $500.00 and $600.00. Potential buyers would take out a
mortgage, as anyone else purchasing a home. The Planning Board asked if the resale prices of these
condos would be capped in perpetuity, in terms of keeping them "affordable?" The applicants stated that
they would be capped for the regulatory period , which is going to be at least 30 years, maybe as long as
50 years. Eva Thaddeus asked and the applicants confirmed that at resale, the property owner is limited
as to what they can charge. John Ghegan asked if there were sprinklers in the basement and John
Bainlardi replied that yes, there were.

3

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to open the Public Hearing, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion
carried, 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.
Michael Mamone of 19 Young Avenue spoke first about spreading out the electric vehicle chargers, and
asked if this has been discussed with the fire chief. Michael Mamone wondered if the electric vehicle
chargers should be clumped together, or spread out, and maybe the fire chief had an opinion on that.
Michael Mamone asked about the fire hydrant placement, noting that you can read a letter from the fire
chief two ways. Michael Mamone believes that the fire hydrant should be placed at the western most
corner of the property, where there is a grassy area and it is out of the way. Michael Mamone also says
that the renderings presented by the applicants are not shown to scale, they look miniature and Mr.
Mamone believes that this is intentional. Mr. Mamone says the actual building is going to look larger
than the photos suggest. Mr. Mamone said that the proposed building is an ugly eyesore and could be a
smaller building with 20 apartments upstairs and nice stores on the main level. The proposal, as it is,
does not help the Village and as proposed, this building will drain the schools, DPW, fire police and
more.
Next to speak was Susan Skrelja of 56 Truesdale Drive who opened by thanking the Planning Board for
extending the public hearing until the next meeting. Susan Skrelja stated that because the proposed
building is 100% affordable, the Village will lose over $400,000.00 in recreation fees, which is funding
that could help repair and maintain our parks and fields, and we also lose the promised community
space outlined in the original requests for proposals, noting that a competing proposal showed a mixeduse for the site. Susan Skrelja believes that the proposed 100 affordable units will cause the Village to
lose tax revenue and shift the burden to existing taxpayers and will put a strain on the schools, even as
student needs grow. Susan Skrelja asked what was the "plan B" if the applicants do not receive funding.
Susan Skrelja is also curio_us as to how the developers can make sure that these units will not be sublet.
Lastly, Susan Skrelja stated that the balloon test back in February was poorly executed and proper
notification was not given prior to the balloon test. Susan Skrelja requests another balloon test, with four
ballons marking each building corner so that people can see the true size and visual impact of the
structure. Mrs. Skrelja says open questions remain around water pressure and rooftop towers. Mrs.
Skrelja says that we must insist on quality landscaping. Mrs. Skrelja believes that the future residents of
this proposed building will have air, noise and light pollution and believes that this space should be used
as a commercial space.
Next up was Tony Granger of Half Moon Bay, who had one specific item of objection, and that is fire
safety. Tony Granger ran the plan for this building by a retired fire chief friend who wished to remain
anonymous. Tony Granger says that the National Fire Academy fire flow formula is length times width
divided by three for total floor involvement, and went on to list several technical concerns voiced by his
anonymous fire chief friend, including the number of handlines that he believes are needed. Tony
Granger's friend also had concerns with the construction of the building, and assumption that wood and
shingles would be used. Mr. Granger states that trusses are held together by gusset plates and the
plates are compressed hydraulically, and when heated, the moisture leaves and the gusset plate
loosens its grip, and could collapse. Lastly, Tony Granger asked if the building will have residential
sprinklers, or standpipe connections. Tony Granger believes that self-closing hallway doors are still
mandated by code. Tony Granger says that apparatus placement is another point to discuss. Tony
Granger hoped that all his suggestions would be taken into consideration. Lastly, regarding electric
vehicles, Mr. Granger said that he lives in Half Moon Bay and they are discussing regulations
surrounding electric vehicle charging stations in garages. Mr. Granger also shared some information
about electric vehicles that he picked up on a recent trip to Europe.
Next up was Phyllis Morrow, who wanted to put her voice behind everything that Susan Skrelja said.
Phyliss Morrow believes that the Board of Trustees should create more destinations for residents along
the waterfront. Regarding this proposed building, Phyllis Morrow believes that it is awkward, ugly and
looks like two separate buildings. Ms. Morrow believes that it should blend in with Half Moon Bay. Ms.
Morrow also asked about the height of the trees, after the failed balloon test, as Ms. Morrow is
concerned that this property will block the views of Village residents. Ms. Morrow noted the 1400 people
who signed a petition against this property are not against people moving into the Village, but are

4

against this type of dense housing. In closing, Ms. Morrow asked for an assurance that the trees would
be measured.
Jason Mencher, a consultant from AKRF spoke next and noted that many of the questions brought up at
this meeting were already analyzed by the Village Board of Trustees during the SEQRA review. Jason
Mencher said that the Village Board of Trustees reached a negative declaration in their SEQRA review
and issued the special permit which itemizes certain conditions that the Planning Board then applies to
this project. Jason Mencher reiterated that the Planning Board's role here is to review the site plan, the
landscaping, the aesthetics, et cetera, and that the Planning Board is constrained in the way that the
rules are laid out.
Chairman Luntz asked the applicants about a community space and John Bainlardi stated that this issue
will be addressed in the property sale agreement with the Village, but it looks like it will be the developer
paying a fee for an off-site recreation that would be for the benefit of the community.
Chairman Luntz asked the applicants again about the units being rented and would there be deed
restrictions. John Bainlardi said that he would confirm this at the next meeting, but he does not believe
that the units could be rented out. Chairman Luntz said that renting out the units would not be in the
spirit of the affordable condominium program . Chairman Luntz also asked about a secondary funding
plan, if the funding for the affordable condominium did not go through, and John Bainlardi stated if they
did not receive the funding for the affordable development, then it could become a rental development,
with not less than 20% affordable units.
John Bainlardi stated that the applicants put the fire hydrant where they were asked to put it, and also,
regarding fire safety, they have done many similar projects in the past, and their structures are designed
and built in accordance with New York State Building Code, and he stands behind the quality of the
safety of the developments that they construct.
Regarding the gallons of water per minute question regarding fire safety, John Bainlardi said that the
plans will be put together for fire safety be a licensed engineer who will run all the calculations and the
plans will be compliant, and will be peer reviewed and will meet New York State Code.
Chairman Luntz asked the applicant if he wanted to address the comments regarding electric vehicle
fires and John Bainlardi replied that we are in a new world, he and his partners have included electric
vehicle chargers in other buildings that they recently constructed, that are occupied . John Bainlardi said
that they pay attention to what is going on in the industry, and the professionals who design the systems.
John Bainlardi is open to a discussion as to whether it is prudent to spread out the chargers, or keep
them together, but the bottom line is that the electric vehicle chargers will be designed in accordance
with the codes that govern them. Chairman Luntz asked the applicant to be prepared, at the next
meeting, to discuss what the best practices are now, and what others are doing in terms of the electric
vehicle chargers.
Chairman Luntz asked the applicants if there is a way of approximating the height of the building relative
to some other point. Chairman Luntz mentioned some poles that were there and requested that the
applicants confirm the height of those poles, so people could visually get an idea of the height of the
building.
Chairman Luntz stated that the public hearing will remain open until the next meeting as it is spring
break and many families are away for the week, and made a motion to adjourn the Public Hearing until
the next Planning Board meeting on May 6th , 2025, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 4 - 0.

4.

OLD BUSINESS

a)

Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review Draft Local Law Introductory 2 of 2025
giving the Planning Board authority to issue special permits

5

Overall, the Planning Board recognized that taking on this extra responsibility will be more work, but
believe that it makes sense. The Planning Board understands that many municipalities have their
Planning Boards issue special permits, and that this was the reason for the change in procedure. Upon
reviewing the Local Law, the Planning Board had the following suggestions:
1. That the wording in section 230-57, Application, that states "The submission must include the
following documentation," be changed to "The submission must include the following
documentation, unless waived by the Planning Board."
2. In section 230-58, Review of Application, where it states that "Fourteen hard copies of the
application and supporting documents shall be distributed to the Planning Board", it should read,
"The number of hard copies will be determined by the Building Department."
3. In Section 230-57 C, the wording "Village Master Plan" should be changed to "Village
Comprehensive Plan."
4. In sections 230-62 A and B, the Board of Appeals should be changed to the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
5. Section 230-62 B prohibits the Planning Board from waiving any requirements and conditions.
The wording in this section would need to be revised if the draft law was revised as stated in #1
above.
It is noted that in Section 230-58, an electronic version of the application shall be distributed to the Board
of Trustees for its recommendation, if any. However, there is no time frame specified for a response as is
currently in Section 230-59 of the Zoning Code.
The Planning Board was pleased to receive clarification from the Village Board of Trustees that any
project of a certain scale that requires a zoning change or zoning amendment would require a review by
the Village Board of Trustees.
5.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes April 1, 2025

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of April 1, 2025, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.
6.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, Chairman Luntz making a motion to adjourn,
seconded by John Ghegan, carried, 4 - 0, and the meeting adjourned at 9:53 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
***Minutes approved on May 6, 2025, as amended, with a motion by Geoff Haynes, seconded by
John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky being absent***

6

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed an Accessory Cottage application on Tuesday, April
15th, 2025, for 2 Lounsbury Road, owned by Walter Garschagen & Lynn Hawley, hereafter
known as "the Applicant," said property located at 2 Lounsbury Road, and designated on the Tax
Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67 .20 Block 2 Lot 31 and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, under section 230-41 of the Village Code, the Planning Board is the approving
authority for approving the accessory cottage and hereby approves the accessory cottage, with 697
square feet of habitable floor area, subject to the conditions specified below; and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section l 203(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Accessory Cottage incorporates the excavation and
filling pennit, subject to the conditions specified below, and
WHEREAS, land disturbance activity is under 5000 sq-ft as such will be approved by the
stonnwater management officer; and
WHEREAS, under section 208-16(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Pennit and in accordance with section 208- l 6(F) of
the Village Code the approval of the Accessory Cottage includes the approval to remove trees
noted on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Accessory Cottage application as shown on
the following documents: "Garschagen-Hawley Residence" Drawing I of 3 entitled "Al, Proposed
ADU Plans" 2 of 3, entitled "A2, Proposed Exterior Elevations", Drawing 3 of3 entitled "Sl, Site
Plan, ADU Location", all dated March 31, 2025, and prepared by Karen L Parks of Cold Spring,
New York, and Michael P. Carr, P.E., of Garrison, NY and samples of exterior finishes; be approved
under sections 230-41 of the Zoning Code subject to the following conditions:
1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the colors and materials of the proposed accessory cottage be substantially
consistent as set forth in the above reference documents and described during
the meeting.
3. That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building pennit
and Certificate of Occupancy for the accessory cottage.
4. That, the loft space of the accessory cottage may only be used as non-habitable
space.
5. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application
for a certificate of occupancy.
6. That, the stonn water drainage system and erosion and sediment control
management plan be approved by the Village Engineer.
7. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtain for all connections to
Village owned utilities.
8. That, any required pennits for utility installation in the Village Street be
obtained from the Village Engineer.
9. That the silt fence, as shown on the Site Plan Proposed Accessory Dwelling
Unit, dated April 8, 2025, prepared by Ralph G. Mastromonaco, P.E., P.C., be
extended to the property line.
10. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this
resolution, be submitted with the building pennit application.

2
11. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the approval o f the
excavation and fill work:
a. That, suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall
be locked at all times when work is not being performed on the
property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building pennit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to stonnwater drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That, during construction all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom not be greater than one foot.
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to detennine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented on-site
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
pennanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
pennanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
1.
That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site, shall
be removed from the site immediately but in no event more than 20
days from excavation.
j. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and
remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or
covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved
landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two to three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend
this period on a day by day basis due to weather events that would not
allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan shall

3
also include an analysis ofleaving part of the basement a crawl space
to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
I. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-l0(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a submission
of a new application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may require the
submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 12010(E)-(G) of the Village Code.
12.

That, in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the
Village Code the following conditions are established for the
approval to remove trees:
a. That, the landscaping shown on the plan be installed prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
b. That, the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor
and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above
or as required by the Village Engineer.
c. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be
reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85%
grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on
the approved landscaping plan.
d. That, if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are
unintentionally severely damaged during construction, the
applicant will replace each severely damaged tree with a tree of
2.5" minimum caliper with the species to be approved by the
Village Engineer.
e. That, in case of a tree destroyed or removed illegally, in addition
to but not in limitation to any other remedies, another tree or trees

4
of comparable size, species and/or value be replanted at the
expense of the property owner, for each tree removed.
f. That, in accordance with section 208- l 9(A) of the Village Code
the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other
security payable to the Village to cover the completion of
conditions (a) through (c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the
issuance of a building permit with amount and form of the bond
to be approved by the Village.
g. That, tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
h. That, any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed to less
than two feet.
1.
That, no tree removal shall occur unless a building permit has
been issued by the Village Engineer.
j. That, within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals the
Village Engineer shall be notified of such completion.
k. That, the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term of
the accessory cottage approval and shall terminate upon the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
13. That, in accordance with Section 230-41 of the Village Code, the following
condition is established for the approval of the accessory cottage:
a) Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to
continue the accessory apartment or accessory cottage use, the new
owner shall provide notification to the Building Department
confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and
that they are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and
accessory cottages and will remain in compliance. Such notice shall
be provided within 90 days of the change of ownership. Failure to
timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a
new application.:
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the accessory cottage, such approval and associated
permits shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of this accessory cottage
approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration date.
The PlaMing Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
JohnGhegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus
A motion to approve the resolution was made by Geoff Haynes, seconded by John Ghegan, and
the motion carried, by a vote of 4 to 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on Tuesday, October 25, 2022 the Planning Board approved an Amended Site Plan
application for THE MATRA GROUP, hereafter known as "the Applicant." The subject property,
owned by Anthony Matra, is located at 1380 Albany Post Road in the North End Gateway (NEGD)
and Limited Office ("0-1 ") Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton on
Hudson as Section 67. IO Block 2 Lots 14 & 15; and
WHEREAS, the proposal is for a three story,+/- 33,400 square foot multi-family building; and
WHEREAS, on August 15, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees issued a special use permit for a
29-unit multi-family development at 1380 Albany Post Road; and
WHEREAS, a condition in the October 25, 2025 resolution of Site Plan Approval requires that any
application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration
date, and
WHEREAS, on March 28, 2025, the Applicant requested an initial extension of the expiration date
of the Amended Site Plan approval for a period of two years from October 25, 2025 to an expiration
date of October 25, 2027 and;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Amended Site Plan, and all the conditions
therein, as previously submitted and approved on October 25, 2022, be granted an extension of
two years to expire on October 25, 2027.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chainnan
JohnGhegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by John Ghegan, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 4
with Steve Krisky being absent, at the meeting held on Tuesday April 15th, 2025.

0,

Chairman
ROBERT LUNTZ

Village of
Planning Board
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

TO:

Members
JOHN GHEGAN
GEOFFREY HAYNES
STEVEN KRISKY
EVA THADDEUS
Attorney
DANIEL POZIN
Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM: Chairman Luntz, Planning Board
RE:

Recommendation to Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 2 of 2025, to
amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to
transfer authority for the issuance of Special Permits to the Planning Board

DATE:

April 16, 2025

At its regularly scheduled meeting on March 4, 2025, and April 15, 2025, the Planning Board
reviewed the referral from the Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 2 of 2025.
Overall, the Planning Board recognized that taking on this extra responsibility will be more work,
but believe that it makes sense. The Planning Board understands that many municipalities
have their Planning Boards issue special permits, and that this was the reason for the change in
procedure. Upon reviewing the Local Law, the Planning Board had the following suggestions:
1. That the wording in section 230-57, Application, that states "The submission must
include the following documentation," be changed to "The submission must include the
following documentation, unless waived by the Planning Board."
2. In section 230-58, Review of Application, where it states that "Fourteen hard copies of
the application and supporting documents shall be distributed to the Planning Board", it
should read, "The number of hard copies will be determined by the Building
Department."
3. In Section 230-57 C, the wording "Village Master Plan" should be changed to "Village
Comprehensive Plan."
4. In sections 230-62 A and B, the Board of Appeals should be changed to the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
5. Section 230-62 B prohibits the Planning Board from waiving any requirements and
conditions. The wording in this section would need to be revised if the draft law was
revised as stated in #1 above.
It is noted that in Section 230-58, an electronic version of the application shall be distributed to
the Board of Trustees for its recommendation, if any. However, there is no time frame specified
for a response as is currently in Section 230-59 of the Zoning Code.
The Planning Board was pleased to receive clarification from the Village Board of Trustees that
any project of a certain scale that requires a zoning change or zoning amendment would require
a review by the Village Board of Trustees.
The Planning Bard recommends that Local Law 2 of 2025, to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of
the Code of the Village of Croton on Hudson to transfer authority for the issuance of special
permits to the Planning Board be adopted with the above taken into consideration.

