CROTON CONSERVATION ADVISORY COUNCIL
Meeting Minutes
March 12, 2024
PLACE: Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Small Meeting Room, 3rd Floor
START TIME: Approximately 7:30pm ET.
END TIME: Approximately 8:45pm ET
MEMBER ATTENDANCE:
● Janet Monahan, Chair, via phone for selected parts of the meeting
● Eva Thaddeus (Garden Club), co-Chair of this meeting, filling in for Janet
● Rachel Bernstein, co-Chair of this meeting, filling in for Janet
● Lance Amato
● Terry McGarty (Trails)
● Sherry Horowitz
● Brian Pugh, Mayor and Trustee Liaison
● Steven Krisky, Planning Board Liaison
● John Ealer (CLEAN) Recording Secretary for this meeting
● Members not in attendance
○ Jamie Czuy
○ Nora Nicholson, Trustee Liaison
○ Ellen Siracusa, member ex-officio
PUBLIC ATTENDANCE
● Halle Clark, member of Trails and Garden Club groups
● Francesca Slippen,CHHS student and member of Dark Skies Committee, Earth Day
Contributor
● Rebecca Dymes, certified Arborist, colleague of Eva Thaddeus
Note from John E. / Recording Secretary: Overall these minutes are organized
chronologically. However, when subjects have been revisited occasionally the notes have been
re-grouped by theme for clarity.
MEETING DISCUSSION / ACTIONS
I.
II.

III.
IV.

MEETING BEGAN AT APPROXIMATELY 7:30PM ET.
INTRODUCTIONS
A. Eva and Rachel explained that they will lead the meeting due to Janet’s family
emergency and that Janet will call in when possible.
B. Brief introductions by all present.
MINUTES: from the February 13, 2024 meeting were approved.
A. Motion to approve by John Ealer, seconded by several members.
DARK SKIES:
A. SUMMARY

1. Steve Krisky indicated the committee is still in the organizational phase.
John Ealer gave an overview of some recent developments. Francesca
Slipped contributed perspective, insight and information.
B. SHOPRITE MAINTENANCE PLAN
1. Steve also indicated that recently the ShopRite proposed maintenance
agreement was referred to the planning board.
2. Steve indicated that the plan has lighting impacts that the Board of
Trustees will discuss when at their next meeting.
C. GREEN LIVING LECTURE
1. John Ealer gave an overview of the latest discussions regarding the Dark
Skies Green Living Presentation.
a) Discussion has centered around how to format it, where to have it,
length, etc.
2. John indicated that one point discussed was the utility of creating short
form content that can be aggregated into a longer form piece.
a) i.e. is there a way to film small segments in real places affected by
light pollution, weave those through a talk, instead of just having it
be one long lecture?
3. Rachel if anyone was going to be joining Scott Levine to present.
4. Brief backstory on who Scott is: former CCAC member, Dark Skies
advocate, former Green Living speaker on this topic.
5. Francesca contributed information on the impacts of light pollution.
a) Leafing patterns of trees change in light-polluted areas, it’s a good
indicator to show the impact of light pollution
6. John continued that the idea was to have a Dark Skies presence at Earth
day to build awareness of the Green Living lecture.
7. Venue for Green Living Lecture: Boardroom vs. Library - consensus is
LIBRARY
a) Discussion about pros and cons for each
b) Boardroom - recording is easy, less light pollution, smaller screen
c) Library - more welcoming, congenial, larger screen, no built-in
recording
8. Janet (joining the call later) indicated that Scott Levine, Cary Andrews
and potentially Francesca Slipped would present.
a) Janet will follow up with Francesca directly about her participation.
D. EARTH DAY
1. TREE GIVE AWAY
a) Francesca offered to help make a poster for the Tree Giveaway.
(1) Sherry suggested that it include info on the varieties given
out.
(2) QR code should be part of it so paper flyers don’t need to
be distributed.
(3) Eva Thaddeusindicated she could help create this info on
the tree varieties

V.

b) Rachel suggested we / high school students consider making a
sign that asks everyone getting a tree to make another climatehelping pledge.
2. FLYER
a) Rachel - we will distribute flyers two weeks before.
3. JONATHAN KRUK
a) Storyteller, creating Earth Day themed stories, will be there
4. EARTH DAY SIGNS
a) Terry updated. 25 signs have been ordered, plus a large and
small banner.
b) Signs will be available for distro in Janet’s driveway.
c) Remember, all signs must be retrieved.
5. NATIVE GARDEN INITIATIVE
a) Eva asked whether it’s too early to include this initiative at Earth
Day
(1) Recap: this initiative seeks to find a way, perhaps a
plaque, to recognize those maintaining intentionally wild /
native spaces.
(2) Current thought is to create a plaque to put in the front
yard to educate neighbors etc.
b) Janet Monahanjoined the call at this point.
c) Eva, Janet and Rachel agreed that they need to make this
initiative into a committee to make it something announceable.
6. JANET’S EARTH DAY UPDATE
a) Emily Mancini has put Earth Day info in the newsletter, website
about participants.
b) Janet hasn’t started making sign boards yet, she expects them to
include:
(1) Dark Skies
(2) Green Living Series
c) Cary Andrews, Bird Commissioner, will be there.
d) Terry requested a table for Trails, which Janet is planning for.
e) CLEAN will also have a table.
f) Janet clarified there are close to 20 vendor commitments so far.
g) Janet asked for help connecting with CUB SCOUTS / GIRLS
SCOUTS
(1) Lance will help contact Girl Scouts
(2) Terry, the Boy Scouts
TREE COMMITTEE REPORT - Unanimously approved and sent to BOT.
A. Several members commented and commended the Tree Committee for their
time and detailed efforts.
B. Rachel summarized the committee's detailed review process of Croton’s existing
law and Greenburgh “model” law.

VI.
VII.

1. Highest level takeaway is that Croton law isn’t that bad, the real issue is
enforcement.
2. Greenburgh is a very different community than Croton, so it only made
sense to lift language from that law when needed rather than start with it.
3. Overall recommendation to the board is that enforcement be scrutinized
with all revisions.
C. John asked if the CAC gets to review the proposed law that results from these
recommendations before the public hearing.
1. After some discussion by several attendees, Mayor Pugh clarified that the
CAC will get to see the revised law before its public hearing.
D. Steve asked if the new code will be part of the zoning code since that points back
eventually to the planning board.
1. Brian indicated that the Village attorney will advise.
E. Sherry brought up some additional considerations that aren’t part of the
recommendations but that she wanted to put on the table.
1. Referencing the Greenburg law, on building sites / work areas / etc: how
to ensure the careful labeling of trees to clarify which are to stay and to be
removed?
a) Steve indicated that this is largely including normal existing
processes now.
b) Mayor Pugh indicated that recent violations were not “honest”
mistakes that could have been prevented by clearer markings.
2. How can penalties be strengthened?
3. How to incentivize the care of trees? The Greenburgh law gives equal
time to keeping trees healthy.
a) Sherry states that the Key part of our recommendation as
presented is having an arborist (consulting or permanent) who can
advise and help keep trees healthy.
4. Lance commented that incentivization and education are a good idea, but
asked whether enforcement was the purview of this committee?
a) Janet echoed this question
5. Sherry suggested that the Village Engineer and Village Attorney could
work together to put some “teeth” into the law to strengthen enforcement.
6. Rachel Bernstein clarified that the recommendation is for the Board and
Village Attorney to figure out the most effective ways to increase /
improve enforcement.
a) Steve agreed with this
7. Mayor Pugh indicated that the standard Village fine is $250 and that
enforcement can help deter crimes, but it won’t end them.
F. John moved to vote, Rachel seconded. Unanimously approved and sent to
BOT
REPAIR CAFE
A. Scheduled for July 13, 2024 in Community Room
CLEAN

VIII.

IX.

A. John: CLEAN is in the process of adopting the 9A through town from Baltic
through Municipal place.
1. John indicated it will require a couple hundred dollars in additional funding
/ resources from safety gear.
2. Janet commended the committee’s efforts to Adopt the 9A.
B. John summarized recent CLEAN activities
1. Saturday, Mar 2, 2024: North Riverside Cleanup, about 10 folks including
Mayor Pugh, Trustee Nicholson showed up in the light rain.
a) About 250 pounds of trash, including a cool old Schwinn bike that
someone is refurbishing.
2. Next clean-up, Saturday April 6th at Senasqua (to prepare for Earth Day)
3. Then “100 Yard Trash” Event on Earth Day Weekend
a) Asking anyone who comes to Earth Day to alo clean up 100
years around their property.
4. Duck Park, South Riverside scheduled for June 1st
5. Eva asked about Dobbs, John indicated it was done in December.
GARDEN CLUB
A. Eva updated that there were two well-attended winter events.
1. Perennials 101
a) At the library, two speakers, 40 or so in attendance, a bit of light
pollution made it harder to see the screen.
2. Dahlias w/ Ken Pojman
a) Community room, 30 attended.
B. Spring season starting
1. Mr. Plotkin asked if the Garden Club could clean up in front of PVC.
2. Dobbs Park Flagpole / Cleveland Drive Median
a) Village is working on those areas now
b) Garden Club will go in after they're done.
C. Partnering with Rec Department on Sheet Mulching Demo in June at Gouveia
1. Looking for an expert on composting to help
D. Rebecca Dymes and Francesca asked how they could join the group, Eva
provided email contact information.
TRAILS
A. Terry gave a brief overview of trails system
1. Three white marks blazes a Croton Trail.
2. Halle Clark and David Daley are active members.
B. Five members did some trail clean up last Saturday (March 9th.)
1. Cleaned up three blown-down trees with a 16” electric chain saw.
2. Repaired with rocks, etc, where necessary and possible.
C. Upper North Highland trail is scheduled for work on the second Saturday in April.
D. Terry indicated that John Bouchard and the DPW has been a big help with
heavier equipment when necessary including providing boards for walkways.
1. Challenge is getting the crews to places on the trails further from the
roads.

X.

XI.

E. Steve asked Terry if they could look at the Croton Gorge Trail together, where a
section gets very muddy and could use some help.
1. Terry suggested he could take a look.
F. Steve reported that of the 60 trees planted at Black Rock, about 40 or so are still
alive, he checks on them monthly.
1. Terry mentioned that someone’s been removing the tree tubes.
a) Uncertain whether that’s a good or a bad thing.
2. Rachel expressed admiration that so many trees have been kept alive.
BRUCE LAEMMEL GARDEN
A. Rachel indicated it may need some attention after the winter / floods.
B. Eva indicated the mulch was washed away by the floods, and needs five bags of
mulch worth $30 or so.
C. General discussion of Eva and the Garden club loosely organizing plus some
labor to help maintain the garden.
D. Terry and Steve asked if the DPW could provide wood chips?
E. Rachael thanked everyone who helped water the garden last summer.
MEETING ADJOURNED APPROXIMATELY 8:45PM.

