Croton Conservation Advisory Council Meeting Minutes, September 9, 2025

Meeting called to order at 7:32pm
Present: John Ealer (Chair), Rachel Bernstein, Madalyn Bozinski, Halle Clarke, Sherry Horowitz
(joined later), Jason Mencher, Eva Thaddeus, Mayor Brian Pugh (Liason)
1. July minutes - approved
2. Membership - John Ealer will resign at the end of the year (due to work demands)
3. NRI updates - Jason and Madalyn scheduled to attend 9/22 meeting in Cortlandt
4. Garden club - Eva and Halle
- weeding in Gotwald circle - many volunteers
- Mayor Pugh will talk to DPW about village ½ of Gotwald garden - right now it is mowed
weeds, detracts from well tended pollinator gardens, public blames volunteers for this
- garden visits held over the summer
- 4 public gardens weeded
- signs for gardens to be approved by visual committee soon…
- Eva attended the village meeting where parking issues at Gotwald were discussed,
spoke on traffic and garden improvements.
- potluck planned for Senasqua, fee can be waived as it is a CAC sponsored event
5. Trails - David
- We had trails cleanups on July 19th from the Municipal building and August 9th at the
Arboretum. Things have been growing fast. The north highland loop off of North Highland
particularly benefited from the cleanup.
- I will be scheduling a fall trails meeting to plan out fall cleanups as needed. That should be
mostly storm cleanup for downed sticks.
- New trail markers are in!
- We have a new trail sign on North Highland!
- Trail map update continues.
- Hiking season is ramping down, and I should be joining the regular meetings starting again in
October.

6. CLEAN - John - collaboration event with Temple Israel Sunday September 28 at Senasqua
Reverse Tashlich 2025 - On Rosh Hashanah, we symbolically cast our "sins" into water. In
Reverse Tashlich, we will remove human "sin" from the water by cleaning up the Hudson River
and beginning the Jewish New Year with purpose and care
7. Artificial Turf - not planned for Village sites, nothing for CAC to do about school use.
8. Halle will investigate outlines of the Croton River watershed (Spencer Field is within it) and
the guidelines for property in the watershed - CAC can inform public about this. Brian provided this link https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/conservation-advisorycouncil/pages/croton-river-compact
9. Code enforcement - John and Brian will get the statistics we requested and schedule a
meeting. Only recently has village staff spoken to property owners as well as contractors (as
the law allows).
10. Repair Café - John and Sherry met with Asbury, next they will meet with the Library, and
determine which is a better fit and get a date for the next repair café on the calendar.
11. Dark Skies - to be on agenda for October - Jason to review Cortlandt law and send marked
up version to committee
12. invasives (from July) - add to October agenda - Eva will look into Cortlandt’s code for
invasives; Rachel will pursue sharing list of prohibited invasives with local garden stores.
13. updates from the Mayor
Everyone is invited to preview night at The Blaze - for Village committee volunteers and
their families.
Tuesday 9/10 - Board will make a minor revision to the tree code, related to the
disposition of fees - clarifying that fees paid in relation to tree law will go into a tree
preservation fund, to be used solely for planting and maintaining trees on public land, and that
any amount over $5K in a year should go into the General Fund.
Monday 9/15 - 7pm - Town Hall discussion of Kaplan’s Pond Aeration Project community feedback on plan; representatives from contractor (Lake Savers LLC) and Cornell
Cooperative Extension of Westchester will also be present to answer questions.
14. Planning - John suggests we make a clear plan before the end of the year for Earth Day
2026, clarifying our goals and priorities for this event, which is our largest project.
15.

PLEASE sign up to take a turn as recording secretary.

16. Next meeting Tuesday October 14, 7:30pm.

Meeting adjourned 8:15pm
Respectfully submitted by Rachel Bernstein, September’s recording secretary.

-

