Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, July 9, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua B. Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi

The following officials were absent:
Trustee Slippen
1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 26000608-26000879. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$496,104.47
$73,629.66
$44,330.48
$143,781.95
10,700.00

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
a.

Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory, No. 8 of
2025 to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, to reflect an increase to
the senior citizens tax exemption and cleanup of other language
was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi
and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that this Local Law would increase
Croton’s senior citizen tax exemption to match the exemption that is
offered by the Town of Cortland, the Village’s exemption is a flat fifty
percent, up to $50,000 in income, the Town of Cortlandt works on a
sliding scale based on dollar amounts between $50,000 and $58,000.
To view the entire Local Law, you may click on the following link:

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 2

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202506/0866cd3033203a20dd6fa8ee16dcfff58673b3b1.pdf
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #169-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS on March 26, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Local Law 5 of
2025, which codified the decision to no longer serve as an assessing unit, and
WHEREAS Chapter 204, Taxation of the Village Code must be amended to clean up
outdated language, and
WHEREAS the Village Board wishes to adopt the same senior citizen exemption
language and limits as the Town of Cortlandt; and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 8 of 2025, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2025 was opened
and closed on July 9, 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has determined that the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 8 of 2025 to be a Type II action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act, requiring no environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2025 to amend Chapter 204, Taxation, of
the Village Code to reflect an increase to the senior citizens tax exemption and
cleanup of other language, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 10 of
2025.

b.

Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of
2025 to amend Chapter 122, Fees, Chapter 215, Vehicle &
Traffic, and Chapter 225, Waterfront Revitalization, to update

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 3

various definitions and fines was made by Trustee Simon. Motion
was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that these minor changes are being
made as a result of the ongoing process to clean up the Village Code as
highlighted by General Code. To view the changes, you may click on
the following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202506/26fe02677cedddcc997a09aeec2caa82a4026087.pdf
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #170-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS various definitions and fines in Chapter 122, Fees, Chapter 215, Vehicle
& Traffic, and Chapter 225, Waterfront Revitalization, have been recommended to
be updated, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 9 of 2025, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2025 was opened
and closed on July 9, 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has determined that the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 9 of 2025 to be a Type II action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act, requiring no environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 9 of 2025 to update various definitions and fines
in Chapter 122, Fees, Chapter 215, Vehicle & Traffic, and Chapter 225, Waterfront
Revitalization, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 11 of 2025.

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 4

c.

Motion to open a Public Hearing on No. 10 of 2025 to amend
Chapter 33, Meetings, to reflect the ability to transmit notices of
public meetings and meeting minutes electronically was made by
Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and
approved with a 4-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy explained that this was also an item that was
highlighted by General Code, Chapter 33 was adopted in 1977 and we
are updating the Code to reflect the changes on how municipalities can
send notices. To view the proposed Local Law, you may click on the
following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202507/2e4aa0b8bbed857a2bf8f65bd283d5be3cb39a13.pdf
COMMENTS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that all
committees should maintain minutes, and objected to the IDEA
Committee holding Zoom meetings and emphasized that all the details
to get into that meeting should be provided on the calendar.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion
to close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.

Resolution #171-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Chapter 33, Meetings, of the
Village Code in 1977; and
WHEREAS, since that time, state law has been updated to reflect the ability to
transmit notices of public meetings and meeting minutes electronically; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 10 of 2025, which has been drafted for such purposes; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2025 was opened
and closed on July 9, 2025; and

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 5

WHEREAS, the Village Board has determined that the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 10 of 2025 to be a Type II action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act, requiring no environmental review,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 10 of 2025 to amend Chapter 33, Meetings, to
reflect the ability to transmit notices of public meetings and meeting minutes
electronically, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 12 of 2025.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None.
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS - AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, expressed his concerns
that we are allowing homeowners to cut down up to three trees a year and
reminded the Board that trees not only affect a homeowner’s property but
also neighboring properties, and highlighted some of the devasting effects of
tree removal on Nordica Drive, asked for a clarification of the cost of the
charging stations at the train station, how does it work and who pays for
them, does not understand why a temporary bridge has not been put in place
while they are working on getting the Quaker Bridge replaced.
Resolution Approving the Consent Agenda
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approved the Consent Agenda
with a 4-0 vote.
6. CONSENT AGENDA:
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Request from the Croton Rotary Club for use of the Croton-Harmon
Train Station parking lot for the 41st Annual Croton Rotary Car Show on
September 28, 2025.
2. Memo from the Village Manager regarding the Revised Board Meeting
Schedule for July and August
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202507/831a91ed6cf3e2b8adfc11611718d6886aa0714c.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 6

Resolution #172-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the final assessment roll for 2025 was filed on April 1, 2025, and
WHEREAS the assessment for the property located at 16 Prickly Pear Hill Road,
designated on the tax maps as Section 67.15, Block 1, Lot 14, was not reduced in
accordance with a decision made by the Village Assessor, and
WHEREAS New York State Form RP-556 has been completed to credit the tax bill in
the amount of $2,291.37 due to this clerical error,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to sign the aforementioned form, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to adjust
the tax bill as directed.
Resolution #173-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department participates in the STOP-DWI
High Visibility Engagement Campaign Program, an overtime, added, patrol effort to
enforce the New York State Vehicle and Traffic Laws against intoxicated and
impaired driving (DWI/DWAI) in Westchester County, and
WHEREAS the latest version of this agreement is effective beginning October 1,
2024, and terminates on September 30, 2025, and
WHEREAS, Westchester County has provided an amendment to the agreement to
ensure funding is available for all municipalities who wish to participate,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to execute the amendment to the STOP-DWI High Visibility
Engagement Campaign Program Inter-Municipal Agreement with Westchester
County for the period between October 1, 2024, and September 30, 2025.

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 7

Resolution #174-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS on July 5, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees adopted a Freedom of
Information Law (FOIL) Policy governing the release of public records in the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS New York State law has recently changed which requires employees to
be notified when their disciplinary records have been requested through the FOIL
process, and
WHEREAS the policy has been amended to reflect this change in state law,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
updated FOIL Policy as attached hereto.
c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on June 25,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on May 21,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #175-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory No.
4 of 2025 to repeal and replace Chapter 208, Trees, of the Village Code to
strengthen provisions related to trees on public and private property, as well as
enacting stiffer penalties for the illegal removal of, or injury to, trees, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 8

WHEREAS on April 23, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS on June 25, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process
and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Short EAF “Determination of
Significance” attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 4 of 2025, which was opened and closed on June 25, 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on June 25, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy standards
and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with
those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:

Policy 6: Expedite permit procedures in order to facilitate the siting of
development activities at suitable locations.
Policy 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected,
preserved, and, where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as
habitats.
Policy 9B: Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the wildlife in the
designated significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon Society
sanctuaries, Jane Lytle Arboretum, Gouveia Park, and on other public or
private lands within the Village where wildlife habitats are located, as well as
the protection of such resources.
Policy 18: To safeguard the vital economic, social, and environmental
interests of the State and of its citizens, proposed major actions in the

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 9

coastal area must give full consideration to those interests, and to the
safeguards which the State has established to protect.
Policy 19B: Increase public access to areas that offer physical and visual
connection to the Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Policy 23: Protect, enhance, and restore structures, districts, areas, or sites
that are of significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of
the State, its communities, or the Nation.
Policy 25: Protect, restore, or enhance natural and man-made resources
which are not identified as being of statewide significance, but which
contribute to the overall scenic quality of the coastal area. (The following
scenic areas were noted in the LWRP as having local and regional
significance: (1) Distinctive and scenic views of Croton Point, (2) Views of
the Hudson River from South Riverside Avenue and Route 9 corridor, and (3)
Vegetated slopes and undisturbed ridgelines particularly those in the
viewsheds in the Croton Gorge, River and Bay areas.)
Policy 25A: Establish and protect identified public viewsheds of the Hudson
River, including but not limited to the public views of the Hudson River from
the western shoreline of the Village, and of the Croton River and Gorge. (The
following scenic areas were noted in the LWRP as having local and regional
significance: (1) Distinctive and scenic views of Croton Point, (2) Views of
the Hudson River from South Riverside Avenue and Route 9 corridor, and (3)
Vegetated slopes and undisturbed ridgelines particularly those in the
viewsheds in the Croton Gorge, River, and Bay areas.
Policy 37A: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should
be exerted in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from
new construction.
Policy 41: Land use or development in the coastal area will not cause
national or State air quality standards to be violated.
Policy 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve
the benefits derived from these areas.

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 10

Policy 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by
preventing damage from erosion or situation, minimizing disturbance,
preserving natural habitats and protecting against flood and pollution.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above,
were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local
law to strengthen provisions related to trees on public and private property, as well
as enact stiffer penalties for the illegal removal of, or injury to, trees, complies with
the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 4 of 2025 to repeal and replace Chapter 208, Trees, of the
Village Code to strengthen provisions related to trees on public and private
property, as well as enact stiffer penalties for the illegal removal of or injury to
trees, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 13 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy stated that the law, as it is written, allows a homeowner to
remove up to three trees from their property a year as long as they do not fall into
any of the other categories that require a permit. Village Manager Healy reminded
everyone that under the current law, homeowners could remove an unlimited
number of trees from their property as long as they did not fall into one of the
special categories and we believes this is an improvement to what we currently
have in our Code. To view the entire law, you may click onto the following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202504/6c93604edf340e7afbd1d6f90e57b8133836b669.pdf
Trustee Simon thanked the members of our Conservation Advisory Council and all
those who participated in this journey, it is now our job to implement this and to
make sure that we are doing a good job.
Trustee Nicholson thanked the members of the Conservation Advisory Council who
went through this law, this law came about because our current was not strong

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 11

enough and we saw abuses that were outrageous and while it has taken a long time
to get to this place, she is happy to support it.
Resolution #176-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has introduced Local Law Introductory No.
5 of 2025 to amend Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code to update provisions related to trees, and
WHEREAS on April 23, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREA, on June 25, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the process
and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Short EAF “Determination of
Significance” attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 5 of 2025, which was opened and closed on June 25, 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from
the Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on June 25, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy standards
and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the
applicability of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with
those policies and conditions of the LWRP which it found applicable:
Policy 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved,
and, where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 12

Policy 7A: The quality of the Croton River and Bay Significant Coastal Fish and
Wildlife Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be
protected and improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and
other public uses and values. Its resources shall be protected from the threat of
pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.
Policy 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat
and the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed
of or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or
destroy the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat or Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be
permitted within the area of influence of the habitat unless best available
technology is used to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
Policy 7D: Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the Croton River and Bay
and Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitats and shorelands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
sites.
Policy 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase in
erosion or flooding at the site of such activity or impact other locations.
Construction activity in the Croton River and Hudson River spawning areas shall be
timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be
adversely affected.
Policy 7H: Habitat-related policies identified in the Indian Brook-Croton Gorge
Watershed Conservation Action Plan will be considered in actions proposed for these
areas.
Policy 9B: Encourage passive recreational enjoyment of the wildlife in the
designated significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon Society
sanctuaries, Jane Lytle Arboretum, Gouveia Park, and on other public or private
lands within the Village where wildlife habitats are located, as well as the protection
of such resources.
Policy 12: Activities or development in the coastal area will be undertaken so as to
minimize damage to natural resources and property from flooding and erosion by

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 13

protecting natural protective features including beaches, dunes, barrier islands and
bluffs.
Policy 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction
of erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no
measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities or
development, or at other locations.
Policy 17A: Efforts to control erosion along the rivers and on the steep slopes inland
shall be of a non-structural nature, wherever possible, to minimize the visual
impact of structural measures.
Policy 19: Encourage the linkage of open space from upland areas to and along the
Hudson and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or walkway system.
Policy 23: Protect, enhance, and restore structures, districts, areas, or sites that
are of significance in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the State,
its communities, or the Nation.
Policy 25: Protect, restore, or enhance natural and man-made resources which are
not identified as being of statewide significance, but which contribute to the overall
scenic quality of the coastal area. (The following scenic areas were noted in the
LWRP as having local and regional significance: (1) Distinctive and scenic views of
Croton Point, (2) Views of the Hudson River from South Riverside Avenue and
Route 9 corridor, and (3) Vegetated slopes and undisturbed ridgelines particularly
those in the viewsheds in the Croton Gorge, River and Bay areas.)
Policy 25A: Establish and protect identified public viewsheds of the Hudson River,
including but not limited to the public views of the Hudson River from the western
shoreline of the Village, and of the Croton River and Gorge. (The following scenic
areas were noted in the LWRP as having local and regional significance: (1)
Distinctive and scenic views of Croton Point, (2) Views of the Hudson River from
South Riverside Avenue and Route 9 corridor, and (3) Vegetated slopes and
undisturbed ridgelines particularly those in the viewsheds in the Croton Gorge,
River, and Bay areas.
Policy 37A: Control of the development of hilltops, and steep slopes should be
exerted in order to prevent erosion and minimize runoff and flooding from new
construction.

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 14

Policy 38: The quality and quantity of surface water supplies will be conserved and
protected, particularly where such waters constitute the primary or sole source of
water supply.
Policy 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the
benefits derived from these areas.
Policy 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by
preventing damage from erosion or situation, minimizing disturbance, preserving
natural habitats and protecting against flood and pollution.
The remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP not specifically discussed above,
were reviewed and found not to be applicable, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of
Trustees confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a
local law to update provisions related to trees, complies with the policy standards
and conditions set forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 5 of 2025 to amend Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230,
Zoning, of the Village Code to update provisions related to trees, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 14 of 2025.
Resolution #177-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to place additional electric
vehicle charging stations at the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, and
WHEREAS grant funding from the New York State Dept. of Environmental
Conservation has been secured to fund this cost, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson released a Request for Proposals (RFP)
to 43 contractors on May 1, 2025, and

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 15

WHEREAS two proposals were submitted by the deadline of June 6, 2025, and
WHEREAS the low proposal received was rejected as it did not comply with the
requirements of the RFP, such as submitting necessary documentation and
certifications, and
WHEREAS the lowest responsive proposal received was from PlugIn Stations Online
(PISO) of Valatie, New York, in the amount of $152,355, and
WHEREAS Sustainability Committee Chair Lindsay Audin has recommended that the
proposal from PISO be accepted,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
accept the proposal from PlugIn Stations Online of Valatie, New York, in the amount
of $152,355, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this project has been allocated in capital
account H5650.2000.25509.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that there has been a lot of preparatory work not only in the
procurement but in the development of the solar array and we are grateful to
Lindsay Audin for all his hard work in getting us to this point.
Resolution #178-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has been seeking to identify ways to improve traffic safety
along Old Post Road North between Hunter Place and Michaels Lane, and
WHERAS,AKRF Inc. has provided a proposal to conduct a traffic engineering study
in this area, and
WHEREAS the Village Board funded the traffic study in the 2025-2026 Capital
Budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby authorizes the Village Manager to accept the proposal

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 16

from AKRF Inc. to conduct a traffic study along Old Post Road North in the not-toexceed amount of $46,500.
To view the proposal and area to be surveyed, you may click on the following:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202507/95a93ee6d1ac13d70fe872eb61803113dfd87e80.pdf
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy stated that there is a lot of pedestrian activity in this area
and they will be studying stop signs and intersections to assist the Village to better
understand how all this activity interacts with each other and to hopefully make
some changes to make it safer for pedestrians.
Resolution #179-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the air conditioning system in the Municipal Building is outdated and in
need of replacement with a modernized, energy-efficient system, and
WHEREAS the Village Board funded the replacement of the system in the 20252026 Capital Budget, and
WHEREAS the Village issued an Invitation to Bid on June 19, 2025, for the project,
and
WHEREAS four bids were received at the time of the bid opening on July 3, 2025,
and
WHEREAS the four bids received were higher than anticipated and outside the
approved funding scope for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby rejects the bids received on July 3, 2025, for the
Municipal Building HVAC Improvements project.
Resolution #180-2025

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 17

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson owns the staircase that connects
Farrington Road to Brook Street, having purchased the property in 1930, and
WHEREAS the Village Board funded the replacement of the staircase in the 20252026 Capital Budget, and
WHEREAS the Village issued an Invitation to Bid on June 5, 2025, for the project,
and
WHEREAS three bids were received at the time of the bid opening on July 3, 2025,
and
WHEREAS the three bids received were higher than anticipated and outside the
approved funding scope for the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby rejects the bids received on July 3, 2025, for the
Farrington Road Staircase Replacement project.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that we put in a strict deadline for the work to be
completed by Labor Day and fines were built into the bid if that did not happen, we
believe that the contractors built that into their bid which may have contributed to
increasing the bid numbers.
Trustee Nicholson stated that we need to have this work done during the summer
so that the it does not impact the school year.
Village Manager Healy stated that we can put this out again late winter and
hopefully have it awarded late spring so that they would be ready to go the end of
June.
Resolution #181-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 18

WHEREAS in or about July 1979, the County of Westchester and the Village agreed
that portions of land known as the Croton Gorge Situate (including portions now
known as “Black Rock Park’), in the Town of Cortlandt and in the Village would be
dedicated to the Village for use “solely and exclusively for municipal park and
recreational purposes and for no other purpose, and
WHEREAS such dedication was effectuated by deed dated July 26, 1979 (the
“Original Deed”), and
WHEREAS the legal description of property described in the Original Deed is more
particularly described in Schedule A attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the County inadvertently transferred to the Village, and the Village
inadvertently accepted portions of the Croton Gorge Situate related to the
continued maintenance of the Quaker Bridge, and
WHEREAS both parties acknowledge this error and wish to file a correction deed so
that the County can properly maintain said bridge (the “Correction Deed”), and
WHEREAS the legal description of the property as amended is described in the
Correction Deed and is more particularly described in Schedule B attached hereto,
and
WHEREAS the Village also wishes to execute related easements to help facilitate
repair work to and maintenance of the Quaker Bridge to be undertaken by the
County,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the Correction Deed and related recording forms, and the Easement
Agreements relating to the Quaker Bridge, subject to the final approval of the
Village Attorney.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that this was an unexpected delay, they did not
realize that this paperwork needed to be done, the project still needs to go before
the Water Control Commission for a Wetlands Permit, they have circulated their
Intent to Be Lead Agency, but we still have not received the paperwork for SEQRA.
Village Manager Healy stated that he believes they are working very diligently but it
does seem that it is taking longer than anticipated.

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 19

Village Attorney Subin stated that their legal counsel has been very responsive,
they are working with the State to make sure that we are all doing the right things
and they are moving as quickly as they can.
8. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Michelle Celarier, 1 Nordica Drive, Croton on Hudson, presented a petition to
the Board asking them to adopt a resolution calling for an immediate cease
fire in GAZA. (A copy of the petition can be obtained by reaching out to the
Village Clerk).
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, advised that there is a
boycott against the CVS drugstore regarding an abortion drug, to hear more
comments regarding this issue you may log onto the following website:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1066
(under
Public
Comment/Non Agenda Items (00.45.34), addressed an incident where
someone’s car was damaged for having a Trump sign on their car,
encouraged communities to reach out to ICE if they suspect someone in their
community has committed a crime and is undocumented, addressed his
concerns regards flags flying at Village Hall as well as Sustainable
Westchester’s increase in electric rates.
9. REPORTS:
Trustee Politi stated that the Village of Croton does not have a say on National
issues, and does not believe it is appropriate to undertake this resolution,
emphasized that people are not being victimized by undocumented
immigrants and hopes that people feel safe in our Village where out Police will
not be targeting them.
Trustee Nicholson stated that there are many sensitive things and atrocities
taking place around the world, as a Village Board we do not have control of
what is happening around the world and as a local Village Board we work on
issues that affect our Village, the Friday night concert series has begun, we
are running the shuttle bus and will be working on getting a tracker on the
bus, and the Lorraine Hansberry Committee is working on some events for
October 3rd, 4th and 5th.
Trustee Simon advised that the July 4th celebration at Van Cortlandt Manor
was wonderful; we launched the Project Mover program today at Dobbs Park
and thanked everyone involved with getting this up and running and looks

Village Board of Trustees
July 9, 2025
Page 20

forward to receiving feedback from the community, and thanked the American
Legion for hosting a wonderful dinner thanking Grace Richards, the Manager
of Shoprite, who will be moving to another location.
Mayor Pugh advised that he attended the Conservation Advisory Council’s
meeting this month; trail work will take place on July 19th and August 9th,
advised that he is appointing Jason Mencher and Madalyn Bozinski from the
CAC and Geoff Haynes and Steven Krisky from the Planning Board to the
National Resource Inventory Task Force that we are conducing in conjunction
with the Town of Cortlandt, thanked Duane Jackson and Marc Cheshire for
putting together the July 4th Revolutionary History Re-enactment at Van
Cortlandt Manor.
Village Manager Healy advised that Con Edison will be relining, a small gas
main in the area of the Circle and at Our Saviour Lutheran Church as well as
Kuney Street, we had a site walk with them last week and as soon as we
receive their notification letter we will forward it to the community, water bills
are due next week, and DOT is preparing to do the "final striping on Riverside
Avenue and we look forward to the completion of their work within the next
couple of weeks.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting and enter into an Executive Session to discuss matters involving
particular personnel was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. The meeting was
adjourned at 8:30pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

