CROTON FIRE DEPARTMENT FIRE COUNCIL MEETING
Monday, December 30, 2024
Roll Call: Chiefs Karpoff, Columbo, Caterino
Streany, Vlad, Feminella, Kaplan, Skiba, Delaney, Powers, Sarcone, Treasurer P. Dinkler,
LOSAP T.Dinkler, Trustee Simone, Mayor Pugh
Meeting held at Fino’s restaurant.
Excuses: Tucci, Russel
Motion by Vlad, Skiba to accept excuses, CARRIED
Trustee Simone reported:
- working on information re closure and rebuilding of Quaker Bridge. Wished all Happy
Holidays.
Mayor Pugh reported:
Wished all Happy Holidays and will be attending swearing in on Thursday, January 2nd.
BILLS & COMMUNICATIONS
Letter received from WECO re Art Roosa, III will be an exterior firefighter and Frank Pusatere
no longer on medical leave.
Motion – Vlad, Feminella to accept WECO membership changes, CARRIED
Letter from Fire Patrol notifying Council Josh Karpoff has been elected Warden and Tucci is
appointed as Alternate Warden to Council.
Harmon Engine submitted election results.
Check received for Town of Cortlandt Golf Outing.
Motion – Vlad, Skiba to deposit check into general fund, CARRIED
Reminder paperwork for 2% money must be submitted by each Company.
Election results – Phil Dinkler elected Chief, Chris Columbo elected 1st Assistant, Chris
Caterino elected 2nd Assistant.
CHIEFS’ REPORT
Caterino –
- Thanked everyone for helping him in his first year as Assistant Chief
Columbo –
- Wished everyone Happy Holidays.
- All House issues have been reported to DPW.
- Acknowledged Josh Karpoff for his hard work in his 5 years as Assistant/Chief.
Karpoff –
Thanked members for work responding for calls and for those who attended the elections.
- Northeast Concepts is breaking up their company.
- Turnout gear has had members measured for 2nd time; corrections were made to the
specifications.
- There is a backlog of Firefighter 1 training
1
12/30/2024

CFD Fire Council Meeting December 2024.docx

-

New UTV has been ordered, waiting for trailer
New boat out of the water and shrink wrapped
Engine 119 back from service. Cost of repairs $28K
Engine 118 going out next, then Rescue 18. T-L 44 still at Firematic, parts on order
Pond damaged at Briarcliff fire will be replaced by Briarcliff F.D.
Rescue equipment and universal helmets have been ordered
Annual training for 2025 will be handled Deputy Chief Karpoff. Annual training
completion acknowledgement members will need only to sign in one place.
Harmon Engine had question on status of imager for Engine 120

COMMITTEE REPORTS –
WECO reported New Apparatus Committee has visited 12 locations to view a variety of
pumpers.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS – Question on paperwork for Teddy Neville, P.A.F. John Delaney to
forward paperwork to WECO.
Fund Drive – Phil to handle while Tex is on vacation. No second mailing from Municipal
Marketing. No reports have been generated for 2024. Contract for Municipal Marketing is
pending. Still no Attorney General approval to resume fund drive due to tax reports.
Discussion on 501(c)
Motion – Streany, Vlad to move ahead with accountant to establish a 501(c) as a non-profit and
a federal tax ID number with Adam Decker - CARRIED
NEW BUSINESS –
Motion – Vlad, Powers to hold Big Bucks Raffle on June 1st at Summerfest along with a letter
requesting the fundraiser to the Village, CARRIED
Discussion on Holiday Party.
Swearing in at 8 p.m. on January 2nd at Harmon Firehouse.
Phil Dinkler arrived at 8:02 p.m.
Call sheets almost done with backlog.
Reports not being produced. New system is not reporting accurately. Close to 500 calls for
2024.
TREASURER’S REPORT –
$35,548.20 in Council Account. Outstanding checks for approximately $12K for Chemical and
Hook still remain.
Phil Dinkler to remain as Council Treasurer.
Motion – Vlad, Powers to adjourn meeting at 20:12 hours – CARRIED.
Respectfully submitted,
Joseph P. Streany
2
12/30/2024

CFD Fire Council Meeting December 2024.docx

