Planning Board Meeting Minutes
May 20th, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Dan Pozin, Village Attorney
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of May 6, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Duggan, Richard - 49 Van Wyck Street (78.08-5-28) - Accessory Apartment Application
Homeowner Richard Duggan was present in support of the application. The applicant said that there was
a permitted apartment in his home many years ago, but it was not allowed when the property became a
bed and breakfast. Now, the applicant would like to legalize the apartment, which is off the basement,
and is approximately 582 square feet. The apartment has a private entrance, and meets the criteria for
an accessory apartment.
The applicant stated that he purchased the home in 2023 and it has not been a bed and breakfast for the
last three owners. The applicant is not interested in the apartment being used for short term rentals.
Chairman Luntz went over the resolution including the requirement that if the property were to change
hands, the new owner would need to notify the building department if they would like to continue with the
accessory apartment.
John Ghegan asked if it was inspected by the Village and the applicant responded that NK Electric went
through the property and made any necessary updates and Mountain Breeze went through to make sure
that the air conditioning was functioning properly. The home is hard wired to fire dept, has smoke and
carbon monoxide detectors, coned checked the gas line. The applicant is a real estate developer,
licensed architect, and has done his best to make it appropriate.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the application for Richard Duggan of 49 Van Wyck to approve
an accessory apartment, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.
b) Odabas, Halil & Zehra - 58 Benedict Blvd (79.13-2-12) -Accessory Apartment Application

1

Hal ii and Zehra Odabas were present in support of the application. The applicant stated that he has a
basement apartment, in good condition that he would like to rent as an accessory apartment. The
applicant is not interested in a short-term rental, and wants a long-term tenant.
The apartment is in the basement level, is approximately 600 square feet, which fits in the Village Code.
There is a separate entry for the apartment, as required, but right now, the door to the apartment is visible
from the street, which is not allowed. The applicant plans to plant some evergreen trees to provide a
green screen. Eva Thaddeus confirmed that the evergreens should fill out quickly and provide a solid
screen.
A condition of this resolution is that the applicant apply for a building permit and certification of occupancy
for the accessory apartment. Chairman Luntz went over the condition that, upon sale, the new owner had
to be made aware and notify Village. John Ghegan noted that there was enough parking.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Accessory Apartment application for Halil and Zehra Odabas
at 58 Benedict Blvd., seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried 5 - 0.
c)

Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review an application to Renew a Special Permit
from Ordonez, Marco - MJ Auto Repair 1 Corp., 425 South Riverside Ave. (79313-2-91)

Marco Ordonez was present in support of the application. The Planning Board noted that all the
conditions from the original special permit had been met. Dan O'Connor reported that there is some
construction at this property as a small retaining wall is being repaired (no permit required) and some
jersey barriers will be relocated. Dan O'Connor met with the property owner and inspected the
improvements. Steve Krisky asked if the owner of Straddles Gymnastics was made aware of this
application and it was noted that there is a new manager at Straddles.
The Planning Board will make a recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees that the special permit
be renewed through December 31, 2027, which is the date through which the landlord has agreed to
extend the applicant's lease.

d) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review a proposed change to the official map of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson involving a portion of Jasper Road
The Planning Board believes that the proposal is reasonable and that the Village map be amended to
show the transfer of this portion of Jasper Road to the Village.

3.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) WBP Development, LLC, 1 Croton Point Avenue - Application for Site Plan Approval for
five-story building with 100 dwelling units and subdivision approval for consolidation
subdivision

John Bainlardi was present in support of the application. Regarding the water main extension, the
applicant met with the Village Manager, Village Engineer and the property owner on Wayne Street and
reached a consensus on the water easement. The easement will allow for an extension of the 1O" water
main at the dead end of Wayne Street through the Wayne Street property to the 6" water main on Croton
Point Avenue. Dan O'Connor explained that the extension of the water main is to boost the water
pressure. The Wayne St. property owner hired an engineer, will build another building with some

2

apartments on his property. Chairman Luntz confirmed that there is nothing being approved at this time
regarding an additional building for the Wayne Street property owner. This increase in water pressure will
benefit the site of 1 Croton Point Avenue but also the properties south of Croton Point Avenue including
the ShopRite Plaza, Metro North and Croton Point Park.
Regarding Metro North, the applicants had what John Bainlardi described as a productive meeting with
several Metro North representatives. The applicant stated that Metro North wanted to understand the
existing drainage and the applicants provided Metro North with a copy of the stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) and noted that there will be an added benefit of a reduction in the impervious
surface. The applicant described a conversation with Metro North regarding their common property line.
John Bainlardi said that he does not anticipate any issues with Metro North as they are going to be
neighbors and they will work together.
Regarding the sewer connection, John Bainlardi said that they spoke to the director of operations for the
County and continue to go through the process. John Bainlardi also followed up with the DOT regarding
the surplus property on the east side of the building. The DOT acknowledged receipt of the application,
but there is no approval to date, despite the DOT saying that they do not see any issues.
Geoff Haynes asked about an item discussed as a part of the negative declaration and that was that the
applicants provide soundproofing for the windows and the applicant stated that he believes that the
soundproofing of the windows will be a condition of the building permit.
The applicant stated that the funding for this project is not yet "locked down, but they are getting good
feedback from the affordable home ownership program and the County.
As the public hearing remains open, Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience.
John McKeon of Prospect Place spoke first and had concerns about the water supply to provide
appropriate water for extinguishment of any fires and water service to this property. John McKeon had
questions about the negotiations involving the property owner on Wayne Street and the development of
the parking lot off Wayne Street and who will bear the burden for the costs associated with these
activities. John McKeon would like clarification as to who is paying for what. John McKeon mentioned
that the zoning was changed not only for this property, but also another parcel and he wondered if the
water supply will meet the demands of this zoning change. John McKeon is interested in dollar amounts
associated with the easement on Wayne Street. Dan O'Connor stated that once the easement document
is finalized, it will be a public document.
Michael Mamone spoke next and said that he only hears 10-15% of what is said at the meeting, and that
the sound system is bad. Chairman Luntz apologized and said that he will speak into the microphone.
Michael Mamone stated again that the proposed 100 apartments will have 200 cars and those extra 100
cars will have to park somewhere and that they will probably end up parking at the train station as there is
no where else for them to go, and Mr. Mamone says that they should have to pay at the current rate.
Regarding decorum, Mr. Mamone suggests that the Planning Board meetings should open with the
Pledge of Allegiance, and that people should be allowed to come to these meetings and speak for five
minutes regarding whatever they like.
Gary Eisinger of Cleveland Drive spoke next and expressed concern that the easement is not fully formed
yet. Gary Eisinger feels that the developer is being coy about what the backup plan for the water main
extension and is concerned that they may be considering putting water towers on the building.

3

Chairman Luntz offered the applicant a chance to reply to the public comments and John Bainlardi said
that with respect to the water main, they are solving an engineering issue in the way that they have
proposed to solve it. If it is not doable with the easement, they will have to solve it on site and that would
require a pump and it would require some storage. The storage is not required to go on the roof, they
would bury it. The applicant's preference is to proceed with the easement and they see it as a win-win for
the Village, if it proceeds in this way. John Bainlardi said that the easement is not tied to any future
development.
John Bainlardi respectfully asked for the public hearing to be closed as there were no new issues brought
up and the public has had the opportunity to speak over a few meetings, and if the public brings up
anything new, they will address it.
Gary Eisinger spoke again and suggested that the public hearing remain open as there is an important
piece of information that was provided and that is that it appears that the sale price of the land will be
reduced by the cost of this easement for the water main. Village attorney Dan Pozin said that the terms
of the easement agreement should be worked out between the Village Board of Trustees and the
developers and is not a matter for the Planning Board .
Dan Pozin mentioned the subdivision approval and Dan O'Connor said that the public hearing for the
consolidation subdivision is running concurrent with the public hearing for the site plan. Dan Pozin
pointed out that the subdivision may be subject to a 62-day obligation to have the resolution prepared and
finalized, and suggested that the applicant be asked to agree that even though the public hearing is being
closed on both applications, there is to be no penalty to the Planning Board. John Bainlardi agreed to
consent to adjourn beyond the 62-day time frame, but does not think it should be necessary. For
clarification, the 62 days is for the consolidated subdivision application.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to close the public hearing for 1 Croton Point Avenue, seconded by Eva
Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5 -0.

4.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review Draft Local law Introductory 5 of 2025 to
amend Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to update
provisions related to Trees

The Planning Board went over the changes in the new law including, in Section 1, the addition of
definitions for CLEAR-CUTTING and TREE. In Section 2, the addition of new subsection Q to Section
227-5, which reads: Q. Removal of any tree that is four inches or more in DBH within a wetland,
watercourse, or wetland/watercourse buffer as defined herein. The next section letter appears to be P
instead of a.
In Section 3, the addition of subsection F. (2)(g) to Section 227-7, which reads: (g) Removal of any tree
that is four inches or more in DBH within a wetland, watercourse or wetland/watercourse buffer as
described herein.
In Section 4, the amendment to Section 230-126.1 of the Code to read:/. Tree planting. Shade trees shall
be planted on each side of each street, between the sidewalk and the property line, at maximum intervals

4

of 50 feet, the species and location of which are to be approved by the Planning board in consultation
with the Superintendent of the Department of Public Works and pursuant to the guidelines of Chapter 208
of the Village Code. The maximum possible number of existing trees should be preserved.
In Section 5, If any section, subsection, clause, phrase, or other portion of this Local Law is, for any
reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative body or other
authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent
portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof, which other
portions shall continue in full effect.
And lastly, that this local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the New York State Secretary of
State.
As there is no other action required, the Planning Board recommends that the amendments to Chapter
227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230, Zoning of the Village of Croton on Hudson be adopted, with the section
letter change noted above being considered.

5.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Drah Minutes May 6th, 2025

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of May 6th, 2025, as amended,
seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky abstaining as he
was absent on May 6th , 2025.

6.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, Chairman Luntz made a motion to adjourn the
meeting and the meeting was duly adjourned at 9 :29 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved on 613/2025, as amended, with a motion by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve
Krisky, and carried, 5 - 0.

5

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on May 20, 2025, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from Richard Duggan for an accessory apartment permit on the property
located at 49 Van Wyck Street and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 78.08 Block 5 Lot 28; and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the
said accessory apartment; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, Richard Duggan is the owner and primary occupant of the single-family dwelling in which the
accessory apartment is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment of 589 +/- square feet and is less than the required maximum 800
square feet or 40% of the floor area whichever is less and more than the minimum of 300 square feet.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
Richard Duggan for the accessory apartment as shown on the floor plans prepared for this application,
submitted April 28 th , 2025, and subject to Section 230-41 of the Village Code and the following conditions:
1.

Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment or accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the Building
Department confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and that they
are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and accessory cottages and will
remain in compliance. Such notice shall be provided within 90 days of the change of
ownership. Failure to timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a new application.

2. That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit and Certificate of
Occupancy for the accessory apartment.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the application from Richard Duggan for an accessory
apartment at 49 Van Wyck St., seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on May 20, 2025, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from Halil & Zehra Odabas for an accessory apartment permit on the property
located at 58 Benedict Boulevard and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 79.13 Block 2 Lot 12; and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the
said accessory apartment; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, Ham & Zehra Odabas are the owners and primary occupants of the single-family dwelling in
which the accessory apartment is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment of 600 +/- square feet and is less than the required maximum 800
square feet or 40% of the floor area whichever is less and more than the minimum of 300 square feet.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
Halil & Zehra Odabas for the accessory apartment as shown on the floor plans prepared for this
application, submitted April 28th , 2025, and subject to Section 230-41 of the Village Code and the following
conditions:
1.

Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment or accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the Building
Department confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and that they
are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and accessory cottages and will
remain in compliance. Such notice shall be provided within 90 days of the change of
ownership. Failure to timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a new application.

2.

That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit and Certificate of
Occupancy for the accessory apartment.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the application from Zehra & Halil Odabas for an accessory
apartment at 58 Benedict Blvd., seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

Chairman
ROBERT LUNTZ

Village of
Planning Board
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

TO:

Members
JOHN GHEGAN
GEOFFREY HAYNES
STEVEN KRISKY
EVA THADDEUS
Attorney
DANIEL POZIN
Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM: Chairman Luntz, Planning Board
RE:

Recommendation to Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 5 of 2025, to
amend Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230, Zoning of the Village Code to update
provisions related to trees.

DATE:

May 22, 2025

At its regularly scheduled meeting on May 20, 2025, the Planning Board reviewed the referral
from the Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 5 of 2025.
The Planning Board acknowledged the letter from the Westchester County Planning Board
Referral Review stating that they had no objection to the Village Board of Trustees assuming
Lead Agency status for this review.
The Planning Board went over the changes in the new law including, in Section 1, the addition
of definitions for CLEAR-CUTTING and TREE. In Section 2, the addition of new subsection Q
to Section 227-5, which reads: Q. Removal of any tree that is four inches or more in DBH within
a wetland, watercourse, or wetland/watercourse buffer as defined herein. The next section letter
appears to be P instead of Q.
In Section 3, the addition of subsection F. (2)(g) to Section 227-7, which reads: (g) Removal of
any tree that is four inches or more in DBH within a wetland, watercourse or
wetland/watercourse buffer as described herein.
In Section 4, the amendment to Section 230-126.I of the Code to read: I. Tree planting. Shade
trees shall be planted on each side of each street, between the sidewalk and the property line,
at maximum intervals of 50 feet, the species and location of which are to be approved by the
Planning board in consultation with the Superintendent of the Department of Public Works and
pursuant to the guidelines of Chapter 208 of the Village Code. The maximum possible number
of existing trees should be preserved.
In Section 5, If any section, subsection, clause, phrase, or other portion of this Local Law is, for
any reason, declared invalid, in whole or in part, by any court, agency, commission, legislative
body or other authority of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent portion. Such declaration shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof, which other portions shall continue in full effect.
And lastly, that this local law shall take effect immediately upon filing with the New York State
Secretary of State.
As there is no other action required, the Planning Board recommends that the amendments to
Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230, Zoning of the Village of Croton on Hudson be
adopted, with the section letter change noted above being considered.

