Croton Conservation Advisory Council Meeting Minutes, July 8, 2025
Recording Secretary: Halle Clarke
Meeting called to Order at 7:33 PM. Present: John Ealer, Mayor Pugh, Jason Mencher, Rachel
Bernstein, Eva Thaddeus, Sherry Horowitz, Halle Clarke, Madalyn Bozinski
1. June Minutes of CCAC meeting on 6/10/25 approved.
2. Welcome new Member Madalyn Bozinski. Madalyn is an environmental consultant and will
be joining Jason in the 8 member advisory panel for the NRI review.
3. NRI updates
a. The purpose of the of NRI report is to update the current document
b. Nelson Pope Voorhis will be creating a data driven report on Croton’s natural
resources.
c. The advisory committee will be made up of 8 members ( 1 planning board, 1 public,
2 CAC, 4 others) .Their job is to guide Nelson Pope Voorhis.
4. Tree Law Update
a. There was a public hearing on 6/25/25. Members form the public asked if invasive
trees applied and if arborists were exempt from the permitting process.
b. Trustees will vote on updates 6/9/25
5. No Public in attendance at CAC meeting and therefore no comments!
6. Code Enforcement Agenda Meeting
a. Penciled in for September
b. CAC should prepare by reviewing the codes both directly related and not related to
CAC purview. Ie: pollinator gardens /property maintenance
c. John will work on getting data related to code violations issued in various categories
( leaf blowers, idling- police department, property maintenance, tree law
7. Repair Café
a. Library in interested , but swamped.
b. Ashbury United Methodist Church – John has meeting with Gloria on July 10th, 2025
8. Garden Club- Eva
a. Regular activities such as weeding and garden visits going well.
b. Signs have not been approved by the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment.
John agreed to make a mockup for board.
c. The rule that only Croton residents will be allowed to join the garden club will be
enforced going forward.
d. Rachel agreed to provide local nurseries with a list of invasives that they should not
be selling. Eva, on John’s recommendation, will not be involved.
9. Trails
a. Two events/walks : July 19th ( from Municipal Building ), August 9th ( from Arboretum)
b. New trail markers approved
c. DPW is working on new trail sign with QR code
d. Trails map is being updated
10. CLEAN – John
a. The road side native garden at the Senasqua Exit is doing well
11. Rachel Signed up for September Recording Secretary

12. Open Mica. Bamboo and Invasives
i. Resident asked about Bamboo. We don’t have any village codes about
planting invasives. DEC prohibition is only about selling ( not planting).
ii. However, one should not be allowed to plant along a neighbor’s border as it
will be a nuisance to the neighboring property. Issues between neighbors is
a civil issue. Plantings that creep into road could legally allow the village to
intervene.
iii. Jason suggested that there is a code that has a list of suggested plantings.
Sherry said she’d look into what already existed. ( Halle texted her the
existing village webpage) .Eva will look into Cortlandt’s code for invasives.
iv. Suggestion to add this to agenda in September.
b. Jason -Dobbs Park Redevelopment
i. CAC cannot make recommendation. The RAC is taking the lead in this one.
ii. Mayor will look into if the fountain can be fixed as part of reno.
Meeting Closed: 8:33 PM
Next Meeting September 12th, 2025

