Croton Fire Department – Fire Council Meeting – April 29, 2025
Roll Call: Dinkler, Colombo Sr., Caterino
Wardens: Powers, Vlad, Streany, Feminella, Dunn, Karpoff, Skiba, Kaplan, Sarcone
Deputy Mayor Simon
Chief Dinkler opened the meeting at 7:10 PM with a Pledge to the Flag and a Moment of
Silence for the Deceased Members.
Special Order of Business:
Deputy Mayor Simon reported on the Village budget process and thanked the Chiefs for
their work. The budget was passed, and Mr. Simon gave a brief overview of items in both the
operating and capital budgets for Croton FD. Also reported that the Village Board will hold a
Code update hearing, including ﬁre zones and other code revisions.
The Village Board passed a resolution for CFD to continue Chiefs elections in December of
each year. Approval by the State Legislature should be forthcoming.
Bills and Communications:
A letter was received from Chemical Engine with the following changes of membership;
Matt Stewart – active to social
Egido Carlino – active to social
Matt Pucci – military to social
Andrew Grant - dropped as a social member
Alesandro Polzella – resigned as an active member
Christopher Pittman – reinstated as a social member
Motion Sarcone, Tucci, the above changes be granted, carried.
Letter from Fire Patrol - held a Special election and advised Adam Decker is Treasurer and
Doreen Dunn was elected Warden to the Fire Council.
A letter from Christopher Blaich resigning from the CFD due to health reasons.
Motion Dunn, Skiba, to accept the resignation, carried.
CFD Fire Alarm Dispatch at 7:13 to 40 Farrington Rd. – Several members responded.
A letter was received from the Montrose Fire Department inviting CFD to breakfast on May
4th.
The Montrose FD parade will be held on May 31st, and CFD will be attending.
A letter was received from Westchester County Police asking for a donation, but no action
was taken
An invitation was received from Westchester County regarding recruitment and retention at
WCFTC on May 3rd.
7/14/2025 9:41 AM

Statement received from Mark Butler, CFD has a $729.50 credit with his office.
Chief Dinkler reports he has received a lawsuit from the estate of the victim of a fatal
car/motorcycle accident on Route 9 in 2023, which he will provide to Mr. Butler for
handling.
Council Members returned from alarm at 7:45 PM.
WCVFA invitation to attend West/Rockland Day at the Fireman's Home on July 20th from 10
am to 3 pm, also requesting a donation.
Motion Streany, Feminella to send $250.00 to the State Home, carried.
Chiefs Report
Chief Dinkler thanked the members for their response to alarms and training reports.
Members should look at the CFD and WC websites for upcoming training classes.
This year's parades thus far are Montrose 5/31, Summerfest 6/1, Yorktown 6/25, and
Ossining 8/1.
Rescue 18 and Engine 120 have requested to attend the WC convention parade on
September 20th. Discussion held. Companies are asked to come back to the Council with a
decision for the May meeting.
Boat Comm. To hold a meeting at Station 2 on May 7th at 7 PM for those interested.
Asst. Chief Colombo thanked members for responding and doing what they do. All house
maintenance requests have been submitted to the DPW for handling.
Asst. Chief Caterino thanked members for coming out. BBQ is still in the planning for the
department to replace the holiday party, which we were unable to have in December.
Committee Reports
Ladder 44 new truck – no report
Engine 120 new truck – no report
Engine 119 new truck – committee will receive drawings and ﬁnal specs., from Seagrave
and remains on target to have documents for the Village Manager in early June.
Fire Prevention - reports Fire Fair will be held on October 5th, working on the plan.
Members' Beneﬁts - reports, ID cards are ready, and we would like to begin having
members submit photos and complete the online application for IDs.
501 c application for Council - no update.
Unﬁnished Business;
If Members have attended any of the CFD Compliance training in the past few months, held
by the training committee, they have completed their 2025 requirements. Note, CPR and
Stop the Bleed are two-year certiﬁcations.
7/14/2025 9:41 AM

New Business;
Warden Streany reminded Council that without the 2024 and most likely not having the
2025 donation drive, the Council may have to hold Town of Cortlandt and 2% money for
department expenses, if necessary.
Discussion followed.
Chief Dinkler requested to be reimbursed for ﬂowers for the Gagliotti wake/funeral.
Motion Feminella, Streany to pay Chief Dinkler for the $280.00 expense, carried.
Motion Karpoff, Dunn to accept March minutes, carried.
Discussion on ﬁnding a Council Secretary. Companies are requested to ask their members
to see if anyone is interested.
Treasurer's Report; balance remains the same as the previous month, with the only
expense of $280.00.
Motion, Streany, Skiba to approve Treasurer's report, carried.
Adjournment.
Motion Vlad, Kaplan, to adjourn the meeting, carried.
Meeting adjourned at 8:40 PM.
Respectfully submitted
Joseph P Streany
Secretary Pro-Temp

7/14/2025 9:41 AM

