Croton Conservation Advisory Council : December Meeting
Meeting Minutes 12.10.2024
Attendees: Steve, Rachel, John, Halle, Eva, Lance, Sherry
Not in Attendance - Terry
Late Arrival - Brian, Nora
Recording Secretary - Lance
Meeting Started: 7:33pm

Approval of October Minutes
The November meeting was skipped while finding a replacement chair for the committee. No
adjustments from minutes were noted by any council members. Minutes were approved.

Thank you Janet Monahan
Janet visited the committee and offered gifts to each member. Janet & John met prior to the
transition as a download on all committee history, as well as give access to all files and assets.
Janet reported on a few open items which would require action and follow up by the committee,
specifically the invasive species traps. Brian/Janet was working on an invasive species
research project for the village, (lantern flies). Janet has 3 or 4 traps which she will hand off to
the committee. These traps are to be monitored for the quantity of flies caught over a period of
time, and be reported to Prism (Research company) on findings. It was suggested individuals
on the committee put them up OR handoff to responsible residents for monitoring. CCAC can
order more if needed. It was planned the traps would go out in April for research.

Thoughts from John Ealer
John thanked Janet for all of her leadership and hard work. As a theme and focus for the 2025
year, John would like to set a focus on the core of conservation by improving and updating the
Open Space Inventory and Natural resource report for Croton.
CCAC current membership is at 7 members where a maximum of 9 can be on CCAC.
Committee will make efforts to recruit new members to the CAC in 2025. Strong interest for an
arborist and land use expert to participate on the CAC as a member or advisor. Goal is to
maintain a bullpen of volunteers, or associates to keep interested members active to avoid
disruption to committee’s initiatives by turnover. John looking into the definition of associate or
non voting member participation on the committee.

Open Space Inventory / Natural Resource Inventory
The prior OSI report was passed around for committee review.. CAC will be looking for
volunteers to review the OSI over the course of the next month to strategize on the most
efficient way to update to present day data.
NRI grant has been approved and is being done with partnership of the village of Cortlandt. The
first call for contractors did not yield any success, as the RFQ was sent to 8 participants, all
who declined. John will meet with the village to understand the issue with the RFQ and identity
if CAC can support in any way.

Repair Cafe
The session was originally scheduled for January 11th, but CCAC is looking to reschedule to a
later date, potentially in February. Sherry and Lance will coordinate with Cortlandt to determine
a new time and arrange for a download from Janet on all logistics needed. March is not an
option due to two RC events already scheduled.

Earth Day
The event is scheduled for May 3rd, with May 10th as a rain date. John will take on Janet’s
coordination role for the event. He is currently looking for committee members to assist with
recruiting volunteers for artisan and entertainment venues.
The event will begin at 10:00 AM, with a possible start time of 11:00 AM if needed. Sherry has
requested that John send a list of prior vendors so that the CCAC can reach out and encourage
new vendors to participate.
John has proposed a schedule of events throughout the day which can be posted prior to the
event to keep all village residents informed of when various activities will take place. The team
is also encouraging ideas for more interactive and engaging activities for children, including
potential interactive recycling events. The Billion Oyster Project on the Hudson was proposed as
an option for the event.

Dark Skies
The Dark Skies event took place on October 29th, with approximately 20 attendees. The
following day, on October 30th, Nora and Lance met with the Town of Cortlandt to review the
recently introduced lighting ordinance. Lance will share the Cortlandt ordinance with the CAC for
their review and input on potential adjustments for the village. It is planned that an audit of the
village’s exterior lighting will take place after the holidays, in collaboration with the Dark Skies
Society.

Garden Club
The median strip along Cleveland Ave is quite large, so Eva has reached out to Scott Marsh
regarding the project. Eva will meet with Scott to review the details, and the Garden Club will
coordinate the scope of work. There is consideration in transforming the area into a drought-

resistant garden with educational signage. The Garden Club will develop the design and budget,
with potential funding from the Department of Public Works (DPW).
Signage for the Pollinator Pathway has been created with stakes, and a mockup has been
provided for review by the CCAC. There were discussions about using either the Croton logo or
a CCAC sticker for the signage. The CCAC has expressed a preference for the Croton logo.
This will be presented at Earth Day to village residents to encourage participation for the
pollinator garden program. The garden club members will visit interested participants to secure
approval for the pollinator gardens. John will confirm whether the budget falls under the CCAC
or if DPW will need to manage the funding.

Trails
No Update

Leaf Blower Law
The CCAC has expressed a desire to make the use of battery-powered leaf blowers a
requirement in all new RFPs and contracts for the village, rather than a suggestion. The
contractor for 2024 has already agreed to switch to battery-powered equipment. However, to
ensure consistency, the CCAC would like to formalize this as a requirement going forward.
A gas-powered leaf blower ban was enacted in 2021, but there are ongoing discussions about
refining the enforcement windows for gas-powered blowers. The committee currently has two
pieces of open legislation that are a priority and should be completed before moving forward
with additional leaf blower regulations.
CAC plans to begin educating the village in 2025, with the goal of pushing enforcement
measures in 2026. One option under consideration is the potential for permitting vendors in the
village to ensure they comply with the electric blower requirement. However, there are concerns
regarding the resources required for enforcement of these codes.
It was discussed that Village Parking Enforcement could help spread information about the law
with landscapers since they’re “boots on the ground” about the village all day and could easily
put information on windshields, etc

Clean
Clean group plans on recurring cleanup scheduled for the second Saturday and Sunday of each
month, from March to November. There is an upcoming collaboration with Temple Israel.
Additionally, the Department of Transportation (DOT) will install 'Clean Roadside' signage along
Route 9A

Annual Report Reminder
John to pull together an annual report to the village manager in powerpoint format. Most
information can be taken from the minutes but John will reachout on any open items.

Open Mic
Green Living Series - there is interest in restarting the Green Living series from 2019 next year.
It was noted the Dark Skies event was part of the green living series, and should be maintain
under that program.
Tree Law - was noted to be on the agenda for next year. The village retained a new law firm
recently and will be meeting in Jan to review all open items. Tree Law is on the agenda as part
of that meeting

Next meeting date : Jan 14th

