MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Mar. 23, 2025 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coordinator)

Absent:
Ashley Clemente

Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Len Simon (Village trustee)
Cheryl Wong
Carly Shanks
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): none
Announcements: Earth Day tabling: The May 3 event at Senasqua Park runs from 11
AM to 4 PM. Help will be needed starting at 10 AM to set up our banner and exhibit on
the covered picnic table at the park entrance. These committee members agreed to
staff the table on the following shifts:
- 10 AM to noon: Lindsay and Jonathan [tentative]
- noon to 2 PM: Dan and Ashley [verified]
- 2 to 4 PM: Carly and Dave
- EV/EVSE/RD
Nothing new on NRG’s demand response (DR) initiative for EV chargers. We await
response to our 3/7/25 email on the issue. If NRG fails, we’ll enroll the charger
account with GridRewards, which shares a lower % of the incentive than NRG.
Village staff are in process for approving the draft RFP and bidder list for the train
station EV chargers. [On 3/24/25, it was accepted as is.] The contractor submission
timeline will run from May 1 through June 6, with work to start over the summer and
be completed by Labor Day. We now await DEC’s approval of the RFP.
On 3/21/25, Lindsay asked Bryan Healy and Frank Balbi what technical information or
references they would need to consider renewable diesel (RD) as an alternative to
standard diesel for the Village’s diesel trucks. Once they’re satisfied with the technical
viability, we can propose to the VB that RD be purchased instead of diesel despite its
slight cost increase. Doing so could cut our municipal carbon footprint by ~15%,
equivalent to all our other efforts combined. [On 3/25/25.Bryan responded: “Thank you
for sending this over and for the work that the Sustainability Committee has done on
this initiative. Frank will review and we will be in touch shortly.”]

1

Carly reviewed how switching to RD was a good way to fulfill the Village’s February
2023 Green Purchasing Community resolution. Her report is attached after Len’s
report on his meeting with Mike Lawler, our Congressional House Rep.
[On 3/26/25, Niall found and forwarded an article in “Fleet Maintenance” magazine
detailing how UPS – Niall’s employer – has been using RD in its trucks for years, and
how, due to its clean burning, RD reduces diesel engine maintenance.]
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Underside canopy lights
came on 3/14/25 (see Dave’s ~9:30 PM pic) for
canopies 1 & 2. A week later, all canopy lighting
was on. A few that were flickering have been
replaced. Lights are controlled by photocells atop
each canopy. [The 3/24/25 Croton Chronicle
featured pics of the lighting, credit: David S.
Goldman.]
Arevon is now selling the system to Madison
Energy Infrastructure (www.madisonei.com/)
which owns many comparable and smaller solar projects across the U.S.
DPW solar parking canopy: Village staff are reviewing the draft RFP. On 3/11/25,
NYSERDA OKed using grant funding for SW’s “Municipal Solar” project mgt. program
to facilitate the installation. A contract is being developed for submission to the Village.
SW new Solarize program: Carly reported that SW will circulate a draft Memo of
Understanding (MOU) to municipal govts. by the end of the coming week. Several
residents that are considering solar were advised to wait for the SW program to start.
[On 3/26/25, Leo Wiegman of SW said: “We have decided to eliminate the need for
any executed agreement between munis and SW for Residential Solarize. Instead we
will be circulating a program description and allow munis that want to join to do so
without any paperwork. We are polishing up that description to share with munis. It
should be ready in a day or two. Meanwhile the SW Resi Solarize page is ready.”]
- Heat Pumps
Washington firehouse garage HPs: A draft RFP for installation of the heat pumps
and electric boiler was sent to Village staff 2/21/25 for review and editing. Jon will
adjust the refrigerant spec language in the draft RFP to ensure an up-to-date choice is
made.
Residential HPs: NY State has yet to roll out its Home Electrification and Appliance
Rebates (HEAR) program for middle income homeowners. We had hoped to use its
heat pump incentive to replace electric water heaters with HPWHs. An inquiry to SW
on HEAR elicited this 3/14/25 response: “As you know, HEAR is an IRA program not
2

NYS…the best we can say at this time is that the [DOE] programs are continuing as
planned right now. We have no updates on rollout for moderate income folks yet.”
Along with other DOE energy efficiency programs, HEAR may get axed. Len found
nothing on the matter – one way or the other – in the Congressional Resolution (CR)
that passed 3/14/25. Until we have greater clarity, it will no longer be an agenda item.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
Len is working with Bedford and other munis to lobby Mike Lawler (our House Rep.) to
ensure DirectPay credits remain available to help municipalities fund their energy
projects. At issue for us is ~$100K in DirectPay credits we will seek for the solar
projects at DPW and the Harmon firehouse. On 3/9/25, Rep. Lawler and 20 other
Republican House Reps signed a letter asking Trump to preserve the IRA tax credits.
The letter did not specifically mention DirectPay, so (on 3/19/25) Len made the pitch
directly to Lawler to preserve it. His report is at the end of these minutes. The CR
didn’t change present tax law, so we’re likely OK until it runs out on 9/30/25.
An “early warning” for what’s expected after the CR runs out may arrive by Memorial
Day when the chair of the House Ways and Means Committee (Jason Smith) plans to
send to Trump the “big beautiful” tax bill that will replace the CR.
While eliminating the credits would require Congressional action, there is concern that
the Trump administration may instead try to effectively kill them by “infinitely delaying”
applications for them. On 3/7/25, Village Treasurer Dan Tucker reported that IRS in
January denied our request for a ~$20K DirectPay reimbursement for the Washington
firehouse solar rooftop, saying his filing was “submitted too late”. Dan referenced IRS
paperwork that would allow his filing, but has yet to hear back from IRS on the matter.
Even if the tax credits are maintained for now, efforts are underway to shorten their
lifetime. Present law offers 30% through 2032 and then ratchets down to zero by
2035. That timeline could be shortened by several years. However unless held up,
both of our pending solar projects should be completed by mid-2026.
- Other Reports
Jon reported on information received regarding the GridRewards program. As a
homeowner with solar panels on his roof, he had previously received ~$40 to ~50 a
year in rewards. But for 2024, he was recently notified he would get only $12 despite
his successful performance at 100% during 2024’s eight demand response calls. He
was notified that owners having solar panels would not receive the usual
performance-based rewards if the PV system is exporting during the Demand
Respond/ event.

3

- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
On 3/13/25, at an Ardsley meeting of the Westchester
Municipal Officials Association (WMOA), Village Manager
Bryan Healy delivered a tabletop presentation on the train
station project that included photos taken by Dave.
- New Business / Other Issues
Textile recycling event at Earth Day: Cheryl reviewed
planning for her Earth Day textile recycling booth. She has
produced and is distributing a flyer. She is in process for ordering a banner, has bins
for the clothing and a commitment from CAC for both a table and chairs, but still needs
a few volunteers to staff her table. She will seek some from the Knights of Columbus.
Via the high school’s guidance department, she and Jon will seek high schoolers
needing public service credits as potential table staffers.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, April 27, 2025 at 10:00 AM via Zoom.

4

Len’s report on his chat with House Rep. Mike Lawler on DirectPay municipal tax credits
Thanks so much for forwarding the article on tax credits. It was very informative and it’s
encouraging to read that the member of the Presidential Transition Team thinks “the juice isn’t
worth the squeeze” when it came to eliminating IRA energy tax credits.
I had a good conversation with Rep. Mike Lawler on Wednesday [3/19/25]. Here are the
highlights of our discussion:

1. The Continuing Resolution (CR) adopted last week was just that – a straightforward
continuation of ongoing government funding through the rest of the federal fiscal year,
September 30th, 2025.

2. There were no changes to previous governmental spending except the elimination of
Community Project Funding and a slight increase in Pentagon and Department of
Homeland Security funding.

3. There were no changes to any current tax provisions in the CR. As the article you
highlighted emphasized, all of that is to come later, in the “big beautiful bill” which the
President envisions will contain his tax priorities, his border and national security
initiatives and his energy production program.

4. I thanked the Congressman for being part of the March 9th joint letter of 21 House GOP
members urging retention of current energy tax credits.

5. Following that, I told him that careful attention was needed to ensure that DirectPay was
included in those retention efforts. I briefly explained how DirectPay worked in contrast
to traditional tax credits for the benefit of him and the several of his staff members who
were on the call, let him know how important it was to local governments and to our EV
chargers at the train station. He seemed aware of DirectPay but made no specific pledge
regarding any future effort. But we definitely placed the issue squarely on the table.

6. The Congressman told us that when it came to energy tax credits, it was important not
to “throw out the baby with the bathwater”. Having said that, he also pointed out that
when it comes to specifics, even the 21 signatories to the joint letter are not in full
agreement.
7. Finally, his perspective on the Department of Governmental Efficiency (DOGE) is
interesting. He believes that ultimately what they are doing is conducting a
“supercharged audit” and that with respect to most of their work, and in the spirit of
checks and balances, Congress will have the last word.

5

Carly’s report on how buying renewable diesel fits with Croton’s Green Purchasing resolution

Page 6 section 9 of the document is on “Environmentally Preferable Purchasing”
"Where the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is procuring a commodity or service, whether
by competitive bid or other type of procurement, that is the subject of a GreenNY
procurement specification that has received final approval of the NYS GreenNY Council
pursuant to Executive Order No. 22 (2022), the Village Manager, Treasurer, or
Department Head shall follow the GreenNY procurement specification to the maximum
extent practicable and where cost is reasonably competitive as defined in General
Municipal Law § 104-a. GreenNY approved procurement specifications can be found
online at: https://ogs.ny.gov/greenny/approved-greenny- specifications.”
Following that link to GreenNY if you go to the bottom and click on "NYS Sustainability
Policies Supported by GreenNY Specifications" it takes you here
https://ogs.ny.gov/sustainability-policies
There is a section on Climate and Energy Related Policies and under that it says
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals: The Climate Leadership and Community
Protection Act has set ambitious climate protection goals aimed at limiting “statewide
greenhouse gas emissions to 60% of 1990 levels by 2030 and 15% of 1990 levels by
2050.”
Citation: Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act (July 18, 2019). For more
information, go to: https://climate.ny.gov/. See also https://dec.ny.gov/environmentalprotection/climate-change/new-york-response#Protection.
Applicable GreenNY Specification Categories: Appliances, concrete,
electronics, fuel, lighting equipment, refrigerants, vehicles, etc.
Fuel is noted in that list, which would include Renewable Diesel as a cleaner alternative.

6

