MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Nov. 24, 2024 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coordinator)
Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Len Simon (Village trustee)

Absent:

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Invited guest(s): Alex Maccalini, manager of Shared Mobility, Inc. Project MOVER
program in Ossining, to review e-bike sharing for Croton, and Cheryl Wong, a
prospective new committee member.
Announcements: On 11/7/24, NYSERDA shut down the Clean Energy Community
(CEC) program. It ended with Croton leading with 18,600 CEC points. 2nd place went
to Hastings at 14,000, and 3rd to Bedford at 13,200. See below for financial impacts.
Reminder: committee members must take the annual required trainings on workplace
violence and on harassment. Direct questions to pdisanto@crotononhudson-ny.gov.
- EV/EVSE
Alex Maccalini reviewed the e-bike sharing program as applied to Croton. [His slide
presentation was later sent to all committee members.] When fully charged, an e-bike
can go 30-40 miles. Alex discussed the successful Ossining pilot program scheduled
to end in December and start up fully in early 2025. The Ossining program features 11
drop-off sites, including its train station. He suggested 6-9 stations for Croton to
include (among others) our train station, Municipal Building, several parks, and ShopRite, and a central battery repository. Others suggested additional sites. Ossining’s
train station is below a steep hill. Alex indicated that the e-bikes were able to handle it.
Dave suggested imprinting on the bikes a warning that protective helmets must be
worn. He also suggested that e-bike promotions include the calorie use Alex later
cited for biking, along with guidelines and metrics on speed, incline and ride duration.
As the program develops in 2025, Croton, Sleepy Hollow, and Tarrytown will become
“satellite” participants. The Village is considering hosting a “Project MOVER – Bike
Share Town Hall” in the near future so that all members of the community can learn
more about the program and provide their views on its design and operation.
The contract for our DEC EV charger grant is at last in hand and is now going through
the review and signing process. On 11/18/24, Village staff walked the EV charger lane
with Lindsay and modified the trench and charger layout. The next step is securing
1

agreement with Sol on installing the trench and PVC conduits for charger wiring. A
RFP to hire an electrician to install the wires and switchboard is in process.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: The
portable solar lights have been
sufficient to avoid complaints.
Delivery of the batteries started
11/15/24 (see Dave’s pics at
right). Each module is the size of
a phone booth and includes
monitoring and cooling
equipment. A truck-mounted
crane is inserting them into the four white battery housings.
DPW solar parking canopy: this project is now on hold until we are assured the 30%
IRA rebate will remain available in 2025. Without it, we could be short at least ~$32K
(and up to ~$50K) due to NYSERDA’s $10K/MT/yr limit that it will pay for a solar
project. Members expressed confidence that the 30% would remain in effect, at least
through next year. Mayor Pugh and Trustee Simon were open to having the Village
fund the difference should it appear the 30% rebate is lost.
Washington firehouse net metering: Nothing new to report.
- Heat Pumps
Harmon firehouse addition: Installation of a hybrid (ASHP/gas) rooftop unit is on
hold until 2025 but will not be affected by changes in IRA funding.
Washington firehouse garage HPs: After much discussion, we chose to move
ahead with a slightly modified version of Jon’s original 6-ASHP design, coupled with a
12 kW electric boiler to ensure full heating service on very cold days. Doing so would
allow decommissioning of the 45+ year old underground oil tank. On 10/7/24, Jon and
Lindsay zoomed on an option for a central air-to-water HP and electric boiler as an
alternative. While it could achieve the same ends, Jon estimated a much higher
overall installation cost and 20 kW electric boiler, which could challenge the existing
electric service. Jon pointed out that ASHPs installed after 1/1/25 would need to use a
new refrigerant that might impact the cost. He agreed to update his pricing.
Jon also queried Greg Carey of C&W regarding likely duration of the planned HP
installation work. Carey indicated that the job could be done in 5 working days, but
said assume 7 to be sure. Len had looked into how that could be handled since it
would require that the fire engine be kept outdoors for that duration. He found that a
longer project years ago at the Grand St. firehouse required its engine to be out of its
garage for several months while repairs were made to its floor. Len felt the HP work
should be OK if done in spring/summer next year.
2

Issues of electric service capacity, load on the firehouse’s emergency generator, etc.
will be assessed by Nick Kalyvas, our electrical advisor before our next meeting.
DPW HPs: The option to replace #2 fuel oil with Renewable Diesel (RD) has put the
this project on hold until operating cost and availability issues are sorted out. Dan is
awaiting a meeting with his contact at the NY City’s Dept. of Sanitation to confirm
acceptability of the City’s use of RD in its garbage trucks.
Residential HPs: NY State has yet to roll out its Home Electrification and Appliance
Rebates (HEAR) rebate program for middle income homeowners. It’s now expected
by early 2025. Once available, we will assess it for our long-delayed program to
replace existing residential electric DHW heaters with HPWH. Jon has a volunteer (his
daughter) to assist with the survey work to find existing electric water heaters.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
Possible loss of the 30% IRA rebate would not affect our air-source HP projects since
IRA funding was never available for them. As stated above, the main IRA issue is for
solar installations where the rebate could be important to their financing.
The demise of the Clean Energy Community (CEC) program was unexpected. No
reason was given for the sudden shutdown. We had been told that a merger with the
Climate Smart Community (CSC) program was likely by mid-2025. It’s possible that
many more municipalities sought grants to beat an October deadline (after which
grant values dropped), thus depleting the CEC budget. We await clarification on the
merger of the programs and whether new grants may then become available. Based
on its standing in both programs, Croton is well positioned to secure such funding.
- Other Reports
We briefly discussed the draft renewable diesel (RD) memo attached to the minutes of
the last meeting. Based on his own calculations, Dan found it acceptable. No opposing
views were expressed. [Jon later reviewed it and made valuable adjustments.]
[On 11/25/24, Sprague Energy indicated that a differential upcharge of only ~$.25/gal
(not the $.75 assumed in the draft memo) was likely. But a firm annual price will not be
available until Jan. or Feb. after Congress renews (and maybe changes) existing
federal biofuel tax credits that go to producers. Once a firm number is in hand, we can
raise the RD option to Village officials and the Village Board.]
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
A press release on our attainment of 18,600 CEC points is being issued that includes
congratulatory comments from our elected State representatives. A photo op to
commemorate our success was held 11/22/24 at Croton Landing with several Village
EVs in the background. State and local officials and others attended. The
announcement and photo were featured in the Village’s November newsletter.
3

To seek new committee members, over the last 2 months Lindsay took training in two
national climate action organizations. While both organizations are to be applauded for
their efforts, their training was too basic to be of use. Participation in group dialogues
found no one involved in development or implementation of carbon-cutting projects.
Instead, both groups focus solely on lobbying for climate legislation and education.
To the same end, Keiko polled participants in the food scrap program on their potential
interest in serving our committee. Four people responded, and are being reviewed.
- New Business / Other Issues
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, Jan. 26, 2025 at 10:00 AM via Zoom.

4

