MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Oct. 5, 2025 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Edwin Adkins (on headphones)
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coord.)
Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE

Absent:

David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (comm. gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Carly Shanks
Len Simon (Village trustee)
Cheryl Wong
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): none
Announcements:
On 9/26/25, Village Engineer Dan O’Connor retired after 23 years of service. His
replacement will start next week.
- EV/EVSE/RD
The contract with PISO (a/k/a Plug-In Stations Online) to install 18 EV charge ports at
the train station is in-process. Construction should start next month, with a goal of
completing the facility by year’s end. Total cost will be ~$300K, fully funded by grants
and other non-taxpayer sources.
Mayor Pugh said the Renewable Diesel (RD) pilot test (begun 9/29/25) is “so far, so
good”. Using RD cuts both CO2e and soot. Three of our 19 diesel vehicles (sewer
truck, landscaper, street sweeper) are involved. The test will run through January
2026. A press release on it was picked up by Mid-Hudson News and River Journal,
and an article about it appeared in the Oct. Village newsletter.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Delayed triggering of lights under
array #2 is being fixed by partially covering two photocells
(top two red circles) controlling those lights. They were
being “confused” by distant pole-mounted lights in the train
yard (bottom circle). Dave’s pics clarified the problem. On
page 2, see pic of how rushed commuters have damaged
downspouts. Bollards will be installed to protect them.
DPW solar canopy: Awarding the project has been
delayed due to paperwork issues. Len agreed to set up a
1

zoom with Bryan Healy to sort out how to proceed. The
goal is to complete the 59.4 kW project by early 2026 at a
cost of ~$300K (prior to incentives, a grant, and a ~$90K
IRA rebate; no Village funds are involved).
Residential Solarize: SW says ~80 (~20%) of inquiries it
received toward solar installations have proceeded to
contracts. That’s about double the prior Solarize %. Carly
reported her new system is running fine, and she is
seeing savings on her most recent electric bill.
- Heat Pumps
Harmon firehouse rooftop HPs: on hold until after
Harmon’s roof is replaced.
Washington firehouse garage HPs: on hold until after Harmon’s solar rooftop gets
done.
- Other Programs
Food Scrap Recycling: The new (and larger) scrap shed has been ordered. Delivery
should occur before our next meeting. Additional toters and supplies will then be
ordered to accommodate 20-25 (~20%) more families in the program.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
No new financial issues. The present focus is to push projects toward installation
before their incentives (e.g., NY-SUN, DirectPay) are lost due to bureaucratic delays.
We reviewed a possible new revenue source for future projects, discussed below.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
On 9/20/25, Dave photographed (pic at
right) a tour of the solar canopies by
Groundwork Hudson Valley (a Yonkersbased community development group). On
9/24/25, Lindsay was interviewed by a NYC
radio show (WBAI) on power storage, esp.
at the train station.
- New Business / Other Issues
Under the Trump tax bill, the battery energy storage system (BESS) tax credit was
extended until 2034, ensuring funding for ~8 years. A “gold rush” is now developing
around potential BESS sites, esp. where existing power distribution is constrained (an
issue across Con Ed’s territory). BESS vendors have recently approached local
commercial property owners, e.g., an Ossining church and a Cortlandt vacation
campground, to lease their spaces under 25-year contracts.

2

As a possible site for a 2-4 MW BESS, Lindsay scoped out two small plots at the
Village’s Pumphouse Road facility, from which our drinking water is pumped from the
aquifer below us. Based on data in a recent proposal for a site in Cortlandt (presently
blocked by a BESS moratorium), such a site could produce ~$100K/yr if leased to a
BESS developer. Half of that rent would be reserved as a revenue source for future
carbon-cutting projects more consistent than government grants and incentives. Len
agreed to set up a zoom with Bryan Healy to review the option.
Niall asked if the property might also be considered for a ground-mounted solar
installation. Lindsay stated that it was reviewed several years ago but dropped
because the open areas are relatively small, partially shaded, often flood, and may be
needed by the Village’s water utility for other purposes. BESS, however, occupy little
space, may be placed anywhere, and sit on pads high enough to avoid flooding.
FYI: as of 6/30/25, there are 30.39 MW of operating BESS in Westchester, with 6
large (>1 MW) units accounting for most of it. Of the 827 BESS in the County, ~95+%
are instead residential size (i.e., <30 kW). Croton has about two dozen of them.
The date for our next zoom meeting was set for Sunday, Nov. 9, 2025 at 10:00 AM.

3

