Planning Board Meeting Minutes
May 6th, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Dan Pozin, Village Attorney
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of May 6, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS

a)

Hudson National Golf Club - 40 Arrowcrest Drive (67.15-1-4) Prosed Amendment to the
Environmental Management Plan to Reduce Monitoring at Station SW-3A and SW-6 for N-N
and Turbidity Annually During the Spring

LaJan Barnes, M.S., P.G. of Environmental & Turf Services was present via Zoom in support of the
application. LaJan Barnes stated that in their annual report they did an analysis looking at nitratenitrogen for all stations and that stations one and four have decreasing nitrogen trends over the last 1O
years and no detection of the response threshold for several years.
LaJan Barnes recommends that monitoring for nitrate-nitrogen and turbidity be reduced to monitoring
surface water at only one station: SW-3A at Hudson National Golf Club and that the monitoring be done
annually during the spring base flow instead of three times a year. The background/reference station
SW-6 will be monitored for nitrate-nitrogen as long as on-site stations are monitored. LaJan Barnes
confirmed that Environmental & Turf Services will be closing this year and recommends WSP of Valhalla,
New York take over the role of Environmental & Turf Services at Hudson National Golf Club as they have
been collecting samples at HNGC for decades. To assist in a smooth transition, LaJan Barnes offered to
share any documents and databases that could help WSP, if the Village hires them as a replacement.
Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) Superintendent Brett Scales was also present and stated that he
understands and agrees with LaJan Barnes' recommendation. Brett Scales stated that it is in the best
interest of Hudson National Golf Club to provide the best conditions on the golf course and only use that
nutrients that are needed. Brett Scales says that Hudson National Golf Club do regular soil testing.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the proposed amendment to the Environmental Management
Plan to reduce monitoring at Station SW-3A and SW-6 for nitrate-nitrogen and turbidity to annually, during
the spring, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried, by a vote of 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.

1

b) LNI Industries, Inc., 73 Melrose Avenue (79.5-4-65) - Minor Site Plan Approval for New
Single-Family Home
Greg Misiti of LNI Industries, Inc, and Nick Kalyvas of NK Electric were present in support of the
application. The applicant said they purchased 71 Melrose with the awareness that they could subdivide
the land. Since purchasing the property in December, 2024, the applicants have engineered the site, so it
meets the zoning code, now they are here for site plan approval. It is a small piece of flat land, so they
will just cut a driveway, and put in foundation. No retaining walls will be necessary. They will have to
take out a small bush in front of the property, and a maple tree on the side of the property, and they will
plant a new maple tree in the front yard. They plan on building a small, two-story, modern colonial home.
They will have a modular foundation and a modular home with white vinyl and black windows.
When asked about the subdivision, Dan O'Connor said that it was subdivided in 1908, so the applicants
had to do a lot line adjustment to get the new parcel. Dan O'Connor said that the Village has an
easement on the school side of the property. The applicant said that the only thing close to the easement
is a patio, there is no deck. There will be a detached garage in the back of the property, that will probably
be used as storage. The driveway is on the left side of the property, and goes over the easement, which
is allowed. The garage will be five feet from the property line and is slightly offset so there is room for a
car to turn around in the driveway, behind the house.
The applicants created a 10-foot easement in the back of the property to access the sewer line for the
new house. The easement comes to the corner of 73 Melrose Avenue. There is a robust water retention
system which is adequate for two yard drains and there is an overflow connection to the Village storm
drain. When asked about a plan for runoff from the hill near the school, the applicant stated that over the
last several months that they have been working there, they have had no issues, but they would be willing
to put something in, a swale or something like that.
When asked about the construction phase, the applicant said that they did something similar recently in
the Village. The applicants plan to distribute flyers to the neighbors advising them when the street will be
obstructed with the modular truck. The street is a dead end. There is already water on the property, the
entire home will be electric and sewer comes in through the back yard.
It was noted that the power lines are on the opposite side of the street. The applicants worked around the
fire hydrant, so it will not be an issue. There is potential for a basement in the future, but the applicants
are not finishing it now. When asked about kids cutting through near the property to get to school, the
applicant said that the gate is locked so this is not a street that the kids use as a cut through.
Chairman Luntz went over the draft resolution with the basic clauses, noting one new condition that there
will be a fee in lieu of parkland for new dwellings, including new single-family homes. The applicant
agreed to pay the $12,000.00 fee.
The Planning Board noted that the house must be made solar ready, as part of the NY State Stretch
Code, and lastly requested that a new condition be added to the resolution, stating that the site plan will
be revised to include a drainage system that will address runoff from the hill.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan application for 73 Melrose Ave. with the
added condition that a new condition be added that requires the site plan be revised to include a drainage

2

system that will address the runoff from the hill, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried 4 -0, with Steve
Krisky being absent.
c)

Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review Draft Local Law Introductory 5 of 2025 to
amend Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to update
provisions related to trees

Chairman Luntz suggested tabling this agenda item until the next Planning Board meeting which will be
on May 20, 2025, and there were no objections.

3.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) WBP Development, LLC, 1 Croton Point Avenue - Application for Site Plan Approval for
five-story building with 100 dwelling units and subdivision approval for consolidation
subdivision

Chairman Luntz opened a public hearing at the last meeting on April 15, 2025, and the public hearing
remains open. John Bainlardi of WBP Development, Rich Williams of lnsite Engineering, and Michael
Bevivino of Arketekcher Architecture were present in support of the application.

-

John Bainlardi stated that the applicants submitted an updated site plan, and an updated stormwater
pollution prevention plan. John Bainlardi also provided written responses to some questions that came
up during the last public hearing, which are attached to these minutes.
Regarding electric vehicle charging best practices, the applicant will work with the Village Engineer and
Fire Chief. John Bainlardi also spoke about one of their recent projects in Scarsdale, and that the
applicants purchased fire blankets to store in the garage as these blankets are considered an effective
way to fight a car fire.
Chairman Luntz mentioned that we are awaiting a response from Metro North who sent a letter in
response to the neighbor notification that went out about this public hearing. John Bainlardi stated that
the applicants have engaged with Metro North and have a virtual meeting scheduled with them.
Regarding the sewer connection, the applicants provided details to the County and are expecting a
response. There is still no answer regarding the tie in to the water main on Wayne Street, but there is a
backup plan which would allow them to solve the problem on site.
Regarding the "Plan B" if the applicants do not receive the funding for the affordable condominiums, the
plan would be for a 100-unit apartment building with 80% of the units at market rate, and 20% affordable
units. John Bainlardi said that if there were any changes to the site plan, the applicants would have to
come back to the Planning Board for amended site plan approval.
Geoff Haynes asked the applicant what lies below the building envelope and the applicant responded that
soil borings have been done, and nothing hazardous was found. When there is a bill of sale and the
property is transferred from the Village to the applicant, there would be some type of liability, some type of
agreement with the Village if something was found below the building envelope. The applicant stated that
there is a process in NY State when you purchase commercial property there is a phase one
environmental assessment to reveal any environmental conditions so the purchaser is aware of what they
are buying. The applicant stated that they did a bunch of borings, tested a lot of dirt, and did not find

3

anything that was a problem also, if you are going to export materials, you must classify those materials
and if there are contaminates, they can also go to separate places .
As this is a public hearing, Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience. Ed Riely of Truesdale
Drive spoke and stated that this is an ugly building. Ed Riely also noted discrepancies in the reported
height of the building, and that the consultants originally said the building would be 70-75 feet, then the
applicants said 60-feet. Mr. Riely asked if there would be another balloon test as during the last one, it
was so windy. Mr. Riely asked to know exactly how high this building would be.
Next to speak was Michael Mamone of Young Avenue who also believes that the building is ugly. Mr.
Mamone said that there have been zoning laws in place for years for the good of the Village, but this
project will only help the developers. Mr. Mamone reiterated his concerns about electric vehicles and
believes that all of the electric vehicle charging stations should be grouped together, outside, with none
inside of the garage. Mr. Mamone also believes that the fire hydrant should be located not in front of the
building, but on the western most corner of the property.
Next to speak was Gary Eisinger of Cleveland Drive who again questioned the height of the building,
saying that it was stated that the trees are approximately 60 feet tall, and the building will be
approximately 60 feet tall, but Gary Eisinger believes precision should be expected and necessary. Mr.
Eisinger would like the developers to provide the Village residents, and in particular, the residents on
Wayne Street, who are very impacted by the exact heights of the building with the exact height of the
building to its uppermost point, as currently planned . Gary Eisinger would also like to know the exact
height of the trees, not approximate, and how they calculated it.
Gary Eisinger also had questions regarding the backup plan for the water main extension, as reported,
feeling that the developers are being coy. Gary Eisinger had questions about the easement for the water
and what will happen if the developers can not get this easement. Mr. Eisinger wonders if there may be a
water tower, or what else can they do to achieve the required water pressure for fire suppression and
other necessities.
Jason Mencher, a consultant from AKRF was again present and reiterated that the SEQR process was
completed by the Village Board and that the Planning Board is just reviewing the site plan to make sure
that is compliant with the Village Code. Regarding the building height, Jason Mencher stated that since
the materials are made public, a member of the public could certainly pull the plan and make a calculation
as to what the height is .
Chairman Luntz weighed in on the building height and said that it was pretty clear in the documentation
that was presented . Dan O'Connor showed an image on the screen and pointed out where it shows that
it is 58-feet to the top of the roof and then to the top of the elevator shaft it is 69 ½ feet. Chairman Luntz
said that the height of the trees is something that is approximated . Chairman Luntz said that he was at
the walk through with the applicants and the trees were roughly twice the height of the poles and noted
that the trees are not all the same height. Chairman Luntz noted that the Fire Chief has weighed in on
the fire hydrant location, and Chairman Luntz is satisfied with what the fire chief believes is the best
location for the hydrant, but said that Dan O'Connor could reach out to him again.
Chairman Luntz laid out the three big things that have to be clarified on this application and they are:
1) The Planning Board would like to hear a formal response from Metro North Railroad regarding any
issues that they have with this project.

4

2) The Planning Board would like something more definitive from the County regarding the sewer
connection.
3) The Planning Board would like to know whether there will be a tie in with the water main from Wayne
Street.
Based on these three outstanding items, Chairman Luntz said that the public hearing will remain open
until the next meeting scheduled for May 20, 2025.
John Bainlardi asked, respectfully, if the public hearing could be closed, as they have had two sessions of
an open meeting and nothing new was brought to the table. Chairman Luntz stated that based on the
advice of the counsel, the public hearing will remain open, but he will ask the public not to rehash things
that we have heard many times.
Village attorney Dan Pozin stated that the public hearing should remain open and the public hearing was
adjourned until May 20 th , 2025.
4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes April 15'h, 2025

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of April 15th , 2025, as amended,
seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.

5.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, Chairman Luntz made a motion to adjourn the
meeting and the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:56 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended, on Tuesday, May 20, 2025, with a motion by Eva Thaddeus,
seconded by John Ghegan, and carried, 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky abstaining as he was absent on
May 6th , 2025***

5

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, o n M a y 6 , 2 0 2 5 , the Planning Board reviewed an application for an
amendment to the Environmental Management Plan for the Hudson National Golf Club,
hereafter known as "the Applicant." The subject property is located at 40 Arrowcrest
Drive, in a RA-60 Zoning District, and designated on the Tax Map of the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.15 Block 1 Lot 4;
and
WHEREAS, Monitoring for N-N is required under the EMP at two on-site stations (SW-1
and SW-4) through 2027, at one on-site station (SW-3A) through 2029, and at the off-site
station SW-6 (as long as monitoring on-site continues) in accordance with the
Environmental Management Plan; and
WHEREAS, Environmental & Turf Services recommends, monitoring at stations SW1 and SW-4 shall be stopped because those stations do not flow to any significant
body of water and do not provide any useful information about golf course fertilizer
management, and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action and therefore is not subject to
review under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA).
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that monitoring for nitrate-nitrogen and turbidity
at the Hudson National Gold Club be reduced to monitoring surface water at only one
station: SW-3A (see discussion in Section IV.C of the 2024 Annual Report Monitoring
Program (29th monitoring year) at Hudson National Golf Club prepared by Environmental &
Turf Services and dated April 3, 2025), and that the monitoring be done annually during the
spring base flow instead of three times a year. The background/reference station SW-6 will
be monitored for N-N as long as on-site stations are monitored.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Rob Luntz, Chairperson
Eva Thaddeus
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky (Absent)
John Ghegan

Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote
of 4 to 0, with Steve Krisky being absent.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, May 6, 2025.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed a Minor Site Plan application on Tuesday, May 6,
2025, for Greg Misiti, hereafter known as "the Applicant," said property located at 73 Melrose
Avenue, and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.05
Block 4 Lot 31.2; and
WHEREAS, this application is for a proposed single-family dwelling; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, the lot is part of the Harmon Subdivision (Filed Map# 1776); and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section l 203(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Minor Site Plan incorporates the excavation and
filling permit, subject to the conditions specified below, and
WHEREAS, under section 208- l 6(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with section 208- l 6(F) of
the Village Code the approval of the Minor Site Plan includes the approval to remove trees noted
on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below; and
WHEREAS, under section l 96-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and hereby approves the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, subject to the conditions specified below.
WHEREAS, under section 230-73A of the Village Zoning Code, the Planning Board finds that
the development of this site will contribute to population growth in the Village and that no suitable
land is available on the site for a park. Therefore, the Planning Board hereby requires the payment
of a fee in lieu of parkland in accordance with section 230-738 of the Village Zoning Code; the
fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of a building permit.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Minor Site Plan application as shown on
Architectural Drawings Pages 1-5, Page I entitled "Custom 2 Story," Page 2 entitled "Elevation,"
Page 3 entitled "Foundation," Page 4 entitled" First Floor," and Page 5 entitled "Second Floor,"
dated April 8, 2025, prepared by Westchester Modular Homes, Inc., of Wingdale, New York, and
Preliminary Site Plan Drawings C-1 entitled "Existing Conditions & Demo Plan," C-2 entitled "Site
& Landscaping Plan," C-3 entitled "Grading, Drainage & Utility Plan," C-4 entitled "Construction
Details l '', and C- entitled "Construction Details- 2" dated March 31, 2025, and revised on April
3, 2025, prepared by Crreighton Manning, a GAi Company, and examples of Exterior Finishes, is
hereby approved under Section 230-67 (B) and 230-129 of the Village Zoning Code subject to the
following conditions:

I. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the exterior colors, materials, and architectural design of the proposed
house are substantially consistent as set forth in the architectural plans,
rendering and narrative and samples of exterior finishes .
3. That, the site plan will be revised to include a drainage system that will address
the runoff from the hill.
4. That, the house be made Solar-Ready and Electrical Vehicle Service Equipment
Capable in accordance with NYS Stretch Energy Code 2020 .

2
5. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application
for a certificate of occupancy.
6. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtained for all connections to
Village owned utilities.
7. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this
resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.
8. That, in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the Village
Code the following conditions are established for the approval to remove
trees:
a. That, the landscaping shown on the plan be installed prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
b. That, the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor
and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above
or as required by the Village Engineer.
c. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be
reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85%
grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on
the approved landscaping plan.
d. That, if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are
unintentionally severely damaged during construction, the
applicant will replace each severely damaged tree with a tree of
2.5" minimum caliper with the species to be approved by the
Village Engineer.
e. That, in case of a tree being destroyed or removed illegally, in
addition to but not in limitation to any other remedies, another tree
or trees of comparable size, species and/or value be replanted at
the expense of the property owner, for each tree removed.
f. That, in accordance with section 208-l 9(A) of the Village Code
the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other
security payable to the Village to cover the completion of
conditions (a) through (c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the
issuance of a building permit with amount and form of the bond
to be approved by the Village.
g. That, tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
h. That, any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed to less
than two feet.
1.
That, no tree removal shall occur unless a building permit has
been issued by the Village Engineer.
j. That, within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals the
Village Engineer shall be notified of such completion.
k. That, the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term of
the accessory cottage approval and shall terminate upon the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
9. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and l 20-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the a pp ro v a I of the
excavation and fill work:

3
a.

That, suitable fencing, with a minimum·height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall
be locked at all times when work is not being done on the property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to storm water drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That, during construction, all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom is not greater than one foot in depth.
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented onsite
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
i. That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site, shall
be removed from the site immediately but in no event more than 20
days from excavation.
J. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and
remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or
covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved
landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two-to-three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend
this period on a day-by-day basis due to weather events that would
not allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan
shall also include an analysis of leaving part of the basement a crawl
space to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
I. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond

4
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and l0:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-l0(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or fill work shall be reviewed by the Village Engineer
and if determined to be a substantial revision a submission of a new
application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer if required. The Village Engineer may require
the submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 12010(E)-(G) of the Village Code.
l 0. That, the following conditions are established as part of the approval of the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the Village Code.
a. That, a copy of the SWPPP shall be retained at the site of the land
development activity during construction from the date of initiation of
construction activities to the date of final stabilization.
b. That, no land disturbance work shall commence until the installation
of the sediment and erosion control devices has been completed and
found acceptable by the Village Engineer or his authorized agent.
c. That, each contractor and subcontractor who will be involved in soil
disturbance and/or stormwater management practice installation shall
sign and date a copy of the following certification statement before
undertaking any land development activity: "I certify under penalty of
law that I understand and agree to comply with the terms and
conditions of the stormwater pollution prevention plan. I also
understand that it is unlawful for any person to cause or contribute to
a violation of water quality standards." Copies of these statements
shall be delivered to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
1. That, the certification must include the name and title of the
person providing the signature, address and telephone number
of the contracting firm; the address (or other identifying
description) of the site; and the date the certification is made.
11. That, the certification shall contain proof that each contractor
who will be involved in a land development activity has
obtained training and/or certification in proper erosion and

5
sedimentation control practices. Such certification shall
become part of the SWPPP for the land development activity
and shall be retained on-site.
d. That, the applicable stormwater facility maintenance, inspection and
repair requirements in section 196-9 of the Village Code be
complied with, the stormwater infiltration chamber shall be inspected
annually within 48 to 72 hours after a heavy rainfall (I" or more) to
determine that the chambers have drained. If the chambers have not
drained remedial action shall be taken to rebuild the storm water
management system and restore the infiltrative capacity of the soil.
An inspection port shall be provided.
e. That, deep and percolation tests be conducted in the area of the storm
water infiltration chambers and that an engineer's report on the soil
testing, and redesign if the percolation rate is greater than 15
minutes/inch, be submitted to and approved by the Village Engineer
prior to installation of the chambers.
f. That, the applicant shall contact the Village Engineer at least 48
hours before any of the work inspections listed in section 19610(A)( I) of the VillageCodearerequired.
g. That, in accordance with section 196-1 O(C) an as-built plan of the
stormwater management practices shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer.
h. That, in accordance with section 196-1 O(F) the landowner shall grant
to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in
a reasonable manner for the inspection of the stormwater management
facilities.
1.
That, in accordance with section 196-11 (A) of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the full and faithful completion of all land development
activities related to compliance with all conditions set forth by the
Village in its approval of the stormwater pollution prevention plan.
Said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with
amount of the bond to be approved by the Village Engineer.

Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan and associated pem1its
shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made
six months prior to the expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chainnan
Eva Thaddeus
Steven Krisky (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan Application for Greg Misiti at 73
Melrose Avenue, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of4 to 0, (with
Steve Krisky being absent).
Resolution approved at the meeting held on Tuesday, May 6th, 2025.

INS/ TE
ENGINEERING, SURVEYING &
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE, P.C.

May 1, 2025

Village of Croton-on-Hudson Planning Board
1 Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520
RE:

1 Croton Point
Transit Oriented Development
Croton Point Ave
Croton-on-Hudson, NY

Dear Chairman Luntz and Members of the Board:
On behalf of WBP Development LLC ("WBP"}, we are pleased to enclose eight (8) copies (unless
otherwise noted) of the following in support of an Application for Site Plan Approval for the above
referenced project:
•

Ten ( 10) sheet Site Plan Set, last revised April 30, 2025.

•

Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), dated April 30, 2025.

•

Draft electronic Notice of Intent (NOi) for coverage under GP-0-25-001.

•

Draft MS4 Acceptance Form.

The drawings have been revised in response to comments made by the Village Engineer and
AKRF - as detailed below. Additionally, following are responses to comments made by the Board during
the public hearing on April 15:

1.

Comment: Move Hydrodynamic Separator (HOS 2. 1) downstream.
Response: The Hydrodynamic Separator HOS 2.1 has been moved downstream as
requested.

2.

Comment: The Board asked about progress with NYSDOT.
Response: The applicant has made formal submission to the NYSDOT of an Application
to Purchase Surplus Property. Letters of support from the Village Manager and the
Westchester County Executive's Office have been solicited.

3.

Comment: Provide method for approximating the height of the building .
Response: The height of the existing tree line along the western border of the access
drive (along common property line with MTA) was measured and estimated at
approximately 60 feet +/-. This is approximately equal to the height of the proposed
parapet of the roof of the 5th floor. These trees are approximately equal in height to
those on the eastern side of the property which were used as a general reference to
building height at the Planning Board site visit. For reference, the existing light poles
are approximately 30 feet in height. As noted in the project Negative Declaration, based
on the initial generic study undertaken by the Village in the 2022 zoning amendments,
followed by the site-specific visual analysis performed during the project's SEQRA
review, and in accordance with NYSDEC Program Policy DEP-002 (Assessing and
3 Garrett Place, Carmel, New York 10512 (845) 225-9690 Fax (845) 225-9717
www.insite-eng.com

Z:\E\24154100 WBP Croton Point Ave\Correspondence\2025\05012025CoHPB.docx

Letter to Mr. John Bainlardi
RE: 1 Croton Point, Croton Point Ave, Croton-on-Hudson, NY

Page 2 of 5
May 1, 2025

Mitigation Visual and Aesthetic Impacts, December 13, 2019), the project (5-story
building including maximum height of the rooftop elevator bulkhead) would "not
constitute a significant adverse visual impact."

4.

Comment: Provide EV charging best practices.
Response: The applicant is committed to working with the Village's Building Inspector
and Fire Chief to determine appropriate locations for the EV charging stations to be
installed in the garage and the outdoor parking areas.

5.

Comment: Potential for prohibition on rental of the AHOP units.
Response: Rental of the proposed AHOP units will be prohibited as mandated by the
regulatory agreements with NYSHCR and Westchester County.

In response to comments received from Dan O'Connor, P.E., Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Engineer/ Building Inspector, dated April 7 1 2025. we offer the following responses:
1.

Comment: Why are some pipes HOPE and others RCP?.
Response: RCP pipes are provided for pipes that have less than the required cover for
HOPE pipes.

2.

Comment: Can Hydrodynamic Separator (HOS 1. 1) be located closer to the curb for easier
cleanout by Vac truck and other maintenance.
Response: The Hydrodynamic Separator HOS 1.1 has been located such that it can
connect to the existing 18" diameter pipe that currently leaves the property. However,
the structure has been shifted along the pipe to be closer to the curb.

3. Comment: Is this utility pole to be removed (existing utility pole located on NYSOOT parcel)?
Response: The utility pole is located on the NYSDOT parcel. As part of the ongoing
discussions with NSYDOT relative to the use of this property, the removal of the utility
pole can be included in the discussion.

4.

Comment: Can the wood pole with the two cobra heads be removed and be replaced with an
ornamental light pole?
Response: The lighting photometric plan for the project has been updated to replace the
existing utility pole and cobra head lights with a new decorative light pole consistent
with the other lights proposed along the project frontage.

5.

Comment: The CF (construction fence) and SF (silt fence) in the ROW easement area should
be relocated so as not to block access to 1A Croton Point Ave (MNR property).
Response: The construction fence and silt fence have been relocated on Drawing SP-3
to preserve a 20-foot-wide access during construction of the project. This will be
coordinated with MTA.

05012525CoHPB .doc

lnsite Engineering, Surveying & Landscape Architecture, P.C.

Letter to Mr. John Bainlardi
RE : 1 Croton Point, Croton Point Ave, Croton-on-Hudson, NY

6.

Page 3 of 5
May 1, 2025

Comment: Please check the grading in the area of the ROW easement. An existing spot
elevation of 500.9 is shown with a proposed contour line of 500 in the same location indicating
a 0.9 ft cut; spot elevations may be required to show any propose grading.
Response: The trash room floor elevation has been increased to elevation 501 and the
loading / parking area and access drive grading has been adjusted to provide better site
drainage and less regrading in that area. It is noted this area is currently relatively flat,
and based on the deteriorated pavement does not appear to be draining well. The
proposed grading will create better pitch. Refer to Drawing SP-2 for updated grading and
drainage.

7.

Comment: It is requested that proposed water services be located before the proposed fire
hydrant, this will allow the semi-annual distribution system flushing to fully flush the main that
the new services are connected to. The connection could be a cut in tee, both services must
have curb valves within a few feet of the main. Also, there may be an existing MNR water
service in the current proposed location of the water services. The relocated water services will
also then be out of the ROW easement which will provide much less interference with traffic
using the ROW easement.
Response: The water and fire service lines have been relocated to connect before the
hydrant as requested with the required tee and valves. See Drawing SP-2 and additional
details on Drawing D-3.

Memorandum from AKRF, Inc Justin Seeney, PE. dated April 11, 2025:
At the request of the Village Engineer, AKRF has reviewed the 1 Croton Point Stormwater Pollution
Plan (SWPPP) dated March 26, 2025 prepared by lnsite Engineering, and offers the following comments:
1.

Comment: Provide calculations for "Total WQv Required" in accordance with the methodology
presented in Section 9.2.1 .B.III of the 2015 Stormwater Manual. The eNOI and SWPPP list the
"Total WQv Provided" (i.e. the WQv contributing to HDS Units) as the "Total WQv Required."
Response: An additional "Total WQv Required" calculation has been added to Section 2.2
and Appendix A of the SWPPP. Question of 49 of the eNOI has been revised to reflect the
"Total WQv Required"

2.

Comment: Revise Section 2.2 of the SWPPP to reference the 2015 Stormwater Manual Section
9.2.8 .111 methodology. The SWPPP references a requirement to provide treatment for 25% of
existing impervious. The 25% requirement only applies when using standard SMPs. As the
project uses alternative SMPs, the treatment requirement is 75% of the existing impervious.
Response: Section 2.2 of the SWPPP has been revised to no longer reference treatment
for 25% of existing impervious as it is not applicable. As noted above, Section 9.2.1.8.111
of the Design Manual is noted.

3.

Comment: Update what appears to be incorrect or missing entries to the eNOI for Questions 29,
31, 37, 38, 49.
Response: The eNOI has been updated to provide entries for the questions noted.

4.

Comment: Provide calculations for the Water Quality Flow Rate. While it's acknowledged the
SWPPP includes a WQv-specific HydroCAD model, the backup calculations for the included
1.80" and 1.66" rainfall depts are not included.

05012525CoH PB .doc

lnsite Engineering, Surveying & Landscape Architecture, P.C.

Letter to Mr. John Bainlardi
RE : 1 Croton Point, Croton Point Ave, Croton-on-Hudson, NY

Page 4 of 5
May 1, 2025

Response: Water Quality Peak Flow Rate Calculations are provided with Appendix A of
the SWPPP. A rainfall depth of 1.86 Inches and 1.65 inches were used In the calculation
and was obtained from Appendix B of the Design Manual.
5.

Comment: Demonstrate in-line HOS units can pass peak flow rates. Revise the Post
Development HydroCAD model to analyze all Subcatchments separately. Currently
Subcatchments 1.0/1.1 and 2.0/2.1 are grouped together.
Response: It should be noted that proposed Hydrodynamic Separators have been revised
to the Hydro-Shield Advance Plus Separators by Oldcastle. The Hydro-Shield Advance is
also on the NJCAT certified website. Section 2.2 and Appendix F of the SWPPP have been
revised to demonstrate that the HOS units can pass the 25-year peak flow rates, as
required.

6.

Comment: The Post-Development Drainage Map appears to be incorrectly listed as 1"=40' Scale.
Both maps appear to be incorrected dated.
Response: The scale on Figure 3 has been corrected and the drawing dates have been
revised accordingly.

7.

Comment: Demonstrate a new decrease in impervious to each Design Point. It is our
understanding that RRv requirements should be evaluated on a design point basis.
Response: A Disturbance/Impervious Area Summary Table has been added to Figure 3
demonstrating a decrease in impervious area to each design point.

8.

Comment: Provide a Limit of Disturbance line on the drawings and drainage area maps.
Response: The limit of disturbance is shown on Drawing SP-3 and has been added to
Figure 3 In the SWPPP for clarity.

9.

Comments: Please clarify the intent of the "Required Erosion Control SWPPP Contents" and
"Required Post-Construction Stormwater Management Practice Component" notes on the
Erosion Control Plan.
Response: The "Required Erosion Control SWPPP Contents" and "Required PostConstruction Stormwater Management Practice Component" notes are provided to
ensure that all the information required for SWPPP's, noted in the General Permit, are
provided on the plans.

10. Comment: It is recommended HOS Unit 1. 1 be upsized as the max treatment flow rate (1.41
cfs) is very close to the Water Quality Flow Rate (1.40 cfs).
Response: As noted above, the HOS Units have been revised and it has been confirmed
that both are sized appropriately.
11. Comment: It is recommended SHPNSHPO documentation be included as a reference
Appendix in the SWPPP.
Response: The SHPO documentation Is now included as Appendix H in the
SWPPP.
1;;. Comment: Comment It is recommended the SWPPP include or reference the
groundwater testing results that backup the statement that groundwater to be dewatered
by the footing drain meets the definition of "uncontaminated."

05012525CoHPB .doc

lnsite Engineering, Surveying & Landscape Architecture, P.C.

Letter to Mr. John Bainlardi
RE: 1 Croton Point, Croton Point Ave, Croton-on-Hudson, NY

Page 5 of 5
May 1, 2025

Response: Section 1.3 of the SWPPP has been revised to include a statement
confirming there is no known contamination on the subject property based on
previous environmental testing that would prevent groundwater being discharged
from the footings.

We look forward to continuation of the public hearing on May 6, 2025. Should you have any
questions or comments regarding this information, please feel free to contact our office.

Very truly yours,
INSITE ENGINEERING, SURVEYING & LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE, P.C.

By:
,chard D. William , Jr., PE
Senior Principal Engineer
ROW/dim
Enclosures
cc:

John Bainlardi, VP, WBP (via email)
Michael Bevivino, Arketekcher (via email)

lnsite File No. 24154.100

05012525CoHPB.doc

lnsite Engineering, Surveying & Landscape Architecture, P.C.

