0

!rr~@w~w

Planning Board Meeting Minutes
April 1, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Daniel Pozin, Village Attorney
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of April 1st, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Brook Street Commercial, LLC 155 Grand Street (67.20-3-12) Minor Site Plan Application for a
New Single-Family House
Property owner, Ronnie Napolitani, engineer Connor McCormack and attorney Luke Hilpert were present
in support of the application. Attorney Luke Hilpert stated that the applicant is looking to build a new,
single-family home on this lot. The application also lays out a plan for a parking and access easement to
be provided on the subject property for three parking spaces, as shown on the site plan, to benefit 153
Grand Street, a multi-family property, that is currently also owned by the applicant. This subject property
has access over Bayview Terrace by way of a permanent easement that runs with the land. It is noted
that the four mailboxes and "Private Road" sign at the bottom of Bayview Terrace will be relocated to
either 155 Grand Street or 159-161 Grand Street with the permission of the property owner, in a location
approved by the Village Engineer.
Connor McCormack stated that the property is in the RB (Two-Family) zoning district, and the applicant is
proposing a three-story, single-family residence, with a garage under the unit. Currently, this lot has a
garage in the rear of the property, gravel, trees, and smaller vegetation. The applicant recently received
three variances from the Zoning Board of Appeals for a lot width variance of 5. 7 feet, a total side yard
variance of 3.8 feet, and a variance for 0.5 stories in height. During the process of obtaining the
variances, the applicant received letters in support of the project from neighbors. Regarding utilities, the
applicant is proposing the water service to be provided from the existing water main line within Grand
Street and sewer service shall be provided by municipal sewer within Grand Street. Part of the project
will also include realigning Bayview Terrace by relocating a stone wall, some signage, and the existing
mailboxes.
The applicant is proposing to relocate and save one evergreen tree and add additional plantings around
the project. As mentioned earlier, there is a garage under the proposed unit, a second-floor patio, and an
additional door on the right side of the building. There is no plan to demolish the garage at this time. The

1

parking spaces for the tenants of 153 Grand Street will remain, by way of a permanent easement, and
some type of walkway will be provided for easy access from 153 Grand Street to the designated parking
area. Geoff Haynes confirmed that the tenants of 153 Grand Street will not lose parking spaces once this
new house is built.
Geoff Haynes asked about the stormwater outflow, and where that goes and Connor McCormack replied
that most of the existing runoff comes down from the property, towards the street, and they are looking to
grade the land and put in two swales, on either side of the building. The applicant will mitigate for the 10year storm. There will be inlets at each corner of the building, and two subsurface infiltration chambers at
the lower left-hand corner of the property and an overflow into the catch basin on Grand Street. Geoff
Haynes brought up the multiple street cuts that will be required for the utilities for this project, noting that
the area is in a busy part of town, and stressed the importance of the road being patched up properly, and
the repaving done as one contiguous area, rather than as individual patches.
The applicant stated that he would like to begin the project in the next couple of months, and Geoff
Haynes reminded the applicant that the Village hosts the annual "Summerfest" in June and that the street
directly in front of the proposed project is used for the Summerfest and suggested that the applicant does
no curb cuts or street cuts prior to Summerfest, which is on June 1st this year. The applicant appreciated
the reminder, and would not want to disrupt Summerfest.
The Planning Board thought that the house, as presented, is attractive and a nice addition to the street.
Chairman Luntz read out the resolution, with conditions and mentioned the additional conditions that were
added this evening, including that there be no street cuts prior to June 1, 2025, and that the repaving be
done as a contiguous area rather than individual patches, a parking easement and designated walkway
be provided for the tenants at 153 Grand Street, and the mailboxes be relocated.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan Application for 155 Grand Street for a new
single-family house, with the amendments to the resolution as discussed, seconded by Geoff Haynes,
and the motion carried, 4 - 0 with John Ghegan being absent.
b) Hudson National Golf Club - 40 Arrowcrest Drive (67 .15-1-4) Proposed Amendment to the
Environmental Management Plan to add and remove pesticides from the List of Pesticides for
Possible Use at Hudson National Golf Club
Hudson National Golf Club (HNGC) Superintendent Brett Scales, and Assistant Superintendent Ryan
Whitaker were present in support of the application, and LaJan Barnes from Environmental & Turf
Services {ETS) participated via Zoom call. Superintendent Brett Scales stated that he was here to
discuss an amendment to the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for Hudson National Golf Club.
The environmental management plan was put in place 30 years ago when the golf club was being built,
to monitor and oversee the maintenance of the golf course. The EMP is a living document that has a
history of being amended when practical, and it has been four years since the last pesticide list update.
Brett Scales stated that he recently asked Environmental & Turf Services, Inc. to review and evaluate a
list of new pesticides to incorporate into the HNGC pesticide program, and identified older pesticides for
removal from the list. The newly requested products, by Brett Scales' report, have a much-improved
safety profile, compared to older products.
Brett Scales gave ETS a list of seven new pesticides that they would like to incorporate into their plan,
two fungicides, and five herbicides. Brett Scales said that HNGC recently finished a restoration project
of the golf course, and the new grasses seeded will allow for a significant reduction in pesticides used
from advanced resistance to turf diseases, meaning that the golf club will be spraying much less than
they have in the past, but they need to be specific about keeping certain invasive grasses out of the
grass that they currently have. If they allow weeds to encroach, it will force them to spray more to

2

protect the weaker grasses. Brett Scales believes that after the renovation, they need to be specific
about spot spraying,
La Jan Barnes of Environmental & Turf Services said that Stuart Cohen, Ph.D. of ETS reviewed the new
proposed amendment to the environmental management plan and discussed it with her. ETS believes
that pests develop a resistance to pesticides, so it is important to have a large list to rotate the products.
La Jan Barnes stated that these products are expensive, so the golf club will not want to indiscriminately
spray, and will spot spray when they can.
LaJan Barnes said the EIQ calculator (Environmental Impact Quotient) was used to evaluate the
proposed pesticides. The EIQ is a web-based decision support tool that is used to summarize potential
pesticide risks. The EIQ calculator was selected by ETS to use as it is easy to use, was developed at
Cornell, provides results for a wide range of pesticides and is a Tier 1 model. Hudson National Golf Club
submits reports to ETS quarterly.
Speaking to superintendent Brett Scales, Chairman Luntz noted that over the years, he has seen great
stewardship of the property, noting that the HNGC staff are conscientious, as far as Chairman Luntz can
see, and that every once in a while, if a nitrogen level goes over a threshold, it is minimal, and is
addressed quickly, so Chairman Luntz wanted that added to the record for the public to see, that the
stewardship of the land has been excellent.
Brett Scales also said that they removed some monitoring stations as there was a lack of water flow over
time, so they were not getting readings that were substantiative enough to maintain. Steve Krisky asked
if Karen Jescavage (President, Croton Arboretum) was kept in the loop and Brett Scales said that she
was.
It was noted that Environmental & Turf Services have closed their offices, they are finishing up this, and
one other project, and are recommending that Hudson National Golf Club hire WSP to continue. A letter
from Environmental & Turf Services, Inc. with their findings is attached to these minutes.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the resolution for an amendment to the environmental
Management Plan for Hudson National Golf Club, seconded Geoff Haynes, and carried, 4 - 0, with John
Ghegan being absent.

3.

OLD BUSINESS

a) WBP Development, LLC, - 1 Croton Point Avenue (79.17-1-5, 4 & 3) Application for Site
Plan Approval for five-story building with 100 dwelling units and Subdivision Approval for
Consolidation Subdivision
John Bainlardi of WBP Development, Rich Williams of lnsite Engineering and Michael Bevivino of AKRF,
Inc. were present in support of the application.
John Bainlardi went over the submissions to the Planning Board for this meeting including a
consolidation subdivision map, draft notice of intent (NOi) for coverage under the general permit for
storm water, a draft MS4 acceptance form and an updated stormwater pollution prevention plan. John
Bainlardi noted that the applicants updated the drawings in response to the Planning Board's comments
at the March 4, 2025 meeting, including adding a note regarding supplemental landscaping, adding a
crosswalk on the on-site, one-way driveway. John Bainlardi said that the architectural renderings were
updated to clarify the height of the solar panels. There was a fire hydrant added to the plans that John
Bainlardi believes is acceptable to the Croton Fire Department, and a building section has been provided
that includes dimensions of the heights of the bulkheads and parapet walls. The applicants also brought
some material samples for the brick and metal.

3

Steve Krisky asked if there is an update from DOT regarding incorporating their land on the east side of
the property into this project. John Bainlardi said that they have not received a response and he expects
the DOT has been busy. He will reach out.
Chairman Luntz asked about Health Department approval for the sewer line, and John Bainlardi said
that he expected that by the next meeting or so, they would have an update.
When asked about progress on the water main connection, Dan O'Connor reported that the homeowner
on Wayne Street is still trying to figure out what his options might be, and there is no answer on this right
now.
Michael Bevivino spoke next and said that the Planning Board suggested moving the package room to
the west side of the building, which the applicants did and Steve Krisky said that he thought it was a big
improvement. When asked about a fire suppression system for the bike storage room, Michael Bevivino
said that the room would have the same three hour rated room, meaning that it would take three hours
for a fire to penetrate this room, the highest rating that you can get is four hours, which is usually in high
rise buildings. Michael Bevivino noted that there will be a concrete deck in between the parking and
residential floors above. Michael Bevivino believes that there is additional fire suppression for the
electric vehicle chargers inside the garage, but confirms that everything will meet building code
standards.
Michael Bevivino also mentioned the updates on the architectural drawings and noted that a building
section was provided that includes the dimensions of the heights of the bulkheads and parapet walls.
Michael Bevivino then passed around material samples, including a charcoal brick made by Glen Gery,
noting that the grout will also be dark. For the metal panel side, there will be a stone white color, and
snap-lock corrugated panels. The windows are casement windows, solid black, and they will open 4
inches.
Chairman Luntz asked about mitigation of noise Michael Bevivino said that both fa9ade systems are
good for sound, the brick is a mass wall so it will absorb sound, the metal will keep sound and heat from
transferring into the building. There will be layers of insulation, so sound will not go back and forth from
interior to exterior. John Bainlardi stated that the applicants hired a sound consultant who tested sound
decibels during the day and advised the applicants on the standard they should meet to keep the noise
level down inside the building.
Geoff Haynes asked Rich Williams about the stormwater outfall and the design points that handle the
stormwater runoff, and Rich Williams said that they are looking at two design points. Runoff from the
site connects to existing catch basins on NYS DOT property (Design Point one) and on Metro North
property with an unknown outlet (Design Point two). The project SWPPP still does not result in an
increase in peak flow to with design point. It is the applicants understanding that MS4 boundaries do not
coincide with collection system boundaries.
Geoff Haynes asked about the demolition phase of the project and how the applicants expect to mitigate
the additional traffic while getting the material and debris out of the site. John Bainlardi stated that the
traffic flow would be managed by the existing traffic lights. John Bainlardi noted that the whole site will
not be cleared at once and some existing asphalt will remain. Geoff Haynes asked again about when
the existing building was demolished, and John Bainlardi stated that they will continue to obey the traffic
laws. John Bainlardi also confirmed that when the utilities are being installed, there will be street cuts.
Geoff Haynes asked about the timing of the project and John Bainlardi responded that while they would
like to start "yesterday," there is still a lot to do with getting permits. The building is designed, but the
review will take a couple of months, and that they expect the Engineering Office to send the plans to a
third party for review. While the plans are being reviewed, the applicants will continue to work on
funding, so they think spring time of 2026 is probably when they will start. The applicants will make an
evaluation if they can do some construction prior to closing on financing.

4

Lastly, Geoff Haynes asked about handicapped parking and Michael Bevivino said they have two groups
of handicapped spaces, two inside the garage, adjacent to elevator, and two spaces in front of building,
for a total of four spaces, which is what is required by code.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to call for a public hearing for site plan and subdivision approval at the
next Planning Board meeting, seconded by Geoff Haynes and carried, 4 - 0, with John Ghegan being
absent.
Chairman Luntz opened the meeting to public comments. Michael Mamone of 19 Young Avenue spoke
first and was surprised to hear about the number of handicapped parking spaces and wondered if four
spaces were enough. Michael Mamone did not think that four were enough handicapped spaces.
Michael Mamone asked if the handicapped parking spaces counted in the overall number of required
parking spots. Michael Mamone also asked about fire suppression systems, wondering how many will
be in the building. Michael Mamone noted that electric vehicle charging stations require specific fire
suppression systems and asked if the applicants could go further than what is required by the building
code. Michael Mamone stated that water does not work for an electric fire, it probably makes it worse.
Lastly, Michael Mamone said that the bike storage room needs to be addressed.
Gary Eisinger of Cleveland Drive spoke next and said that he still has concerns about the deceptive, not
to scale renderings that were used here, and disappointed that they (the applicants) were never pushed
to have scale drawings. Gary Eisinger believes that the public should have a clear sense of the scale of
the building to understand how it will interact with the Village's character. John Bainlardi responded and
said that typically on these drawings are done on a computer program. When they make the drawings,
they model the building full scale, it is not possible for it not to be to scale, they do their best to put it in
photos taken by a drone. Some of the earlier schematic drawings had some inaccuracies but what is
here now is to scale.

b) Referral from Village Board of Trustees to review Draft Local Law Introductory 2 of 2025
giving the Planning Board authority to issue special permits
The Planning Board have some concerns about the scale of projects relative to special permits and
when they may be required. The Planning Board would like to have a meeting with the Mayor and
Village Manager to see if there is possibly a middle ground here as it seems that there are definitely a lot
of things that would fall below the threshold that the Village Board would need to review, but there are
some other things that are above that threshold that may rise to the level of a more broad examination
by people who are elected by the public for some of the more potentially controversial issues. There is a
level of investigation and SEQRA and environmental review that needs to be determined. Eva
Thaddeus said it would also be good to hear the reasoning from the Village Board's decision to have the
Planning Board review the special permits. Chairman Luntz believes that the Planning Board, in the
past, maybe that less than 25 years ago, the Planning Board did handle special permits and many
municipalities do it that way. It was determined that the Engineering Office would help to facilitate a
meeting between Rob Luntz and maybe one other Planning Board member and the mayor, and Village
Manager.
Gary Eisinger of Cleveland Drive spoke again and wondered that if the Planning Board took over the
special permit approval, would there be a way to pass it back up to the Village Board of Trustees if the
project was a certain size or scope that the Planning Board felt would be better served by the elected
officials making judgement calls. Gary Eisinger asked the Village Attorney Dan Pozin who would have
the final word in approvals, citing the example that the Planning Board made a recommendation for the 1
Croton Point Ave. project to have fewer units, but the Village Board approved something else. Dan
Pozin did not have all of the details as to everything that was presented back when this approval was
originally given. It was noted that this was only a comment session, and Gary Eisinger finished by
saying that he believes that certain projects should be addressed by elected officials.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes March 4th, 2025

5

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of March 4th, 2025, as amended,
seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with John Ghegan being absent.

5.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:24 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

*** Minutes approved, as amended, on April 151h, 2025 with a motion by John Ghegan, seconded
by Geoff Haynes, and carried, by a vote of 4- 0, with Steve Krisky being absent***

6

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed a Minor Site Plan application on Tuesday, April 1,
2025, for Brook Street Commercial, hereafter known as "the Applicant," said property located at
155 Grand Street, and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
67.20 Block 3 Lot 12; and
WHEREAS, this application is for a proposed single-family dwelling; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, the Zoning Board of Appeals granted a lot width variance of 5.7 feet, a total side
yard variance of 3.8 feet and a variance for 0.5 stories for this new single-family dwelling on
march 13, 2025; and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section 1203(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Minor Site Plan incorporates the excavation and
filling permit, subject to the conditions specified below, and
WHEREAS, under section 208-16(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with section 208- l 6(F) of
the Village Code the approval of the Minor Site Plan includes the approval to remove trees noted
on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below; and
WHEREAS, the proposed disturbance is 4,525 SQ. FT. which is less than 5000 square-feet and
therefore the Stormwater Management Office is the approving authority for the stormwater
management plan under section 196-7A of the Village Code; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Minor Site Plan application as shown on
Architectural Drawings G0.00 entitled "Title Sheet," Al.01 entitled "Floor Plans," and A2.0l,
A2.02, and A2.03 entitled "Elevations," dated March 27, 2025, prepared by Joseph G. Thompson,
Architect, PLLC, of Peekskill, New York, Preliminary Site Plan Drawings C-100 entitled "Cover
Sheet," C-200 entitled "Existing Conditions & Demolition Plan," C-300 entitled "Dimension Plan,"
C-400 entitled Grading Drainage & Utility Plan," and C-500-501 entitled "Construction Details"
dated February 4, 2025, prepared by Connor Patrick McCormack of Colliers Engineering & Design
of New Windsor, NY, and a Narrative of Exterior Finishes, prepared by Joseph G Thompson,
Architect, PLLC, of Peekskill, New York, is hereby approved under Section 230-67 (B) and 230129 of the Village Zoning Code subject to the following conditions:

1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, there be no curb cut or street cuts until after the Village's Summerfest
which is scheduled for June 1, 2025.
3. That the street cuts will be repaved as a contiguous area.
4. That, the exterior colors, materials, and architectural design of the proposed
house be substantially consistent as set forth in the architectural plans,
rendering and narrative of exterior finishes.
5. That, the mailboxes (4) and "Private Road" sign at the bottom of Bayview
Terrace be relocated to 155 Grand Street or 159-161 Grand Street with the
permission of the property owner in a location approved by the Village
Engineer. The easement agreement for the mail boxes and street sign shall be
reviewed and accepted by the Village Attorney and Village Engineer and filed
with the Westchester County Clerk's Office prior to a certificate of occupancy
being issued for the new house.

2
6. That, a parking, and access easement be provided on 155 Grand Street for three
parking spaces, as shown on the site plan, and walkway to benefit 153 Grand
Street. The parking and access easement agreement shall be reviewed and
accepted by the Village Attorney and Village Engineer and filed with the
Westchester County Clerk's Office prior to a certificate of occupancy being
issued for the new house.
7. That, the house be made Solar-Ready and Electrical Vehicle Service Equipment
Capable in accordance with NYS Stretch Energy Code 2020.
8. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application
for a certificate of occupancy.
9. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtained for all connections to
Village owned utilities.
10. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this
resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.
11. That, in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the Village
Code the following conditions are established for the approval to remove
trees:
a. That, the landscaping shown on the plan be installed prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
b. That, the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor
and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above
or as required by the Village Engineer.
c. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be
reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85%
grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on
the approved landscaping plan.
d. That, if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are
unintentionally severely damaged during construction, the
applicant will replace each severely damaged tree with a tree of
2.5" minimum caliper with the species to be approved by the
Village Engineer.
e. That, in case of a tree being destroyed or removed illegally, in
addition to but not in limitation to any other remedies, another tree
or trees of comparable size, species and/or value be replanted at
the expense of the property owner, for each tree removed.
f. That, in accordance with section 208-19(A) of the Village Code
the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other
security payable to the Village to cover the completion of
conditions (a) through (c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the
issuance of a building permit with amount and form of the bond
to be approved by the Village.
g. That, tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
h. That, any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed to less
than two feet.
i. That, no tree removal shall occur unless a building permit has
been issued by the Village Engineer.
J. That, within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals the
Village Engineer shall be notified of such completion.

3
k. That, the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term of
the accessory cottage approval and shall terminate upon the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
12. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the a pp ro v a 1 of the
excavation and fill work:
a. That, suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall
be locked at all times when work is not being done on the property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to stormwater drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That, during construction, all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom is not greater than one foot in depth.
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented onsite
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
1.
That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site, shall
be removed from the site immediately but in no event more than 20
days from excavation.
j. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and
remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or
covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved
landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
tirneframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two-to-three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend

4
this period on a day-by-day basis due to weather events that would
not allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan
shall also include an analysis of leaving part of the basement a craw 1
space to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
1. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-l0(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or fill work shall be reviewed by the Village Engineer
and if determined to be a substantial revision a submission of a new
application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer if required. The Village Engineer may require
the submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 12010(E)-(G) of the Village Code.
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan and associated permits
shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made
six months prior to the expiration date.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New Yark
Robert Luntz, Chairman
Eva Thaddeus
Steven Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan (Absent)
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the resolution, as amended, for the Minor Site Plan
Application submitted by Brook Street Commercial for a new single-family house at 155 Grand

5
Street, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 to 1, (with John Ghegan
being absent).
Resolution approved at the meeting held on Tuesday, April 1st, 2025.

Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.
ETS@ETS-MD.com or LaJan@ETS-MD.com
Stuart's cell: (301) 943-5153 or LaJan 's cell (410) 925-9858
Daniel O'Connor
Village Engineer
Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY l 0520
March 19, 2025
Re: The Hudson National Golf Course - Proposed Pesticide Use Update to the Environmental
Management Plan
Dear Dan:
Brett Scales submitted a list of seven pesticide products (11 active ingredients) that are
not currently approved for use on the Hudson National golf course (Table 1), and requested that
ETS provide an evaluation of the new products. All of the pesticides evaluated in this task are
approved for use in the State of New York. Thus, we completed the qualitative risk evaluation
described in this letter report in order to update the list of approved pesticides. In addition, five
previously approved products will be removed from the approved list.
We updated the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for pesticides in 2003, 2011,
and 2021. New and better products are continually added to the industry. Thus, it is prudent to
update the pesticides used at The Hudson National Golf Course to keep up with industry and
ensure a better surrounding environment. Pests develop resistance to pesticides and it is
important to rotate products in order to keep that from happening.
The EIQ calculator was used to evaluate the proposed pesticides. It is a Tier 1 model Field Use Environmental Impact Quotient (FEIQ) calculator - that was initially developed by the
New York State's Integrated Pest Management Program (NYSIPM) in 1992 (Kovach et al.,
1992). We selected the EIQ because it is easy to use, it was developed at Cornell, it provides
results for a wide range of pesticides, and it is a Tier 1 model. We provide below the details of
the EIQ calculator and the process used to evaluate the proposed pesticides for approval.
THE EIQ CALCULATOR EXPLAINED
The Environmental Impact Quotient (EIQ) calculator is a web-based decision support
tool that is used to summarize the potential pesticide risk to farm workers, consumers, and nontarget organisms. The online calculator is widely used by growers and companies to help select
pesticides with less hazardous active ingredients. The EIQ is continuously maintained by the
NYSIPM. The most recent update to the online calculator was July 2024.
The results of the calculator are intended to identify pesticide impacts to both the
environment and human health. The calculator requires two types of user-provided information:

Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.

percent active ingredient (% a.i.) and the application rate (e.g., lb/I 000 ft 2). The original (Kovach
et al., 1992) EIQ equation is listed below with the added component. The equation was updated
in 2024 to include earthworms and shows the many factors that go into producing the EIQ
ratings; however, this formula cannot be used directly to make individual pesticide calculations
because the variables are not readily available to the public in a quantitative manner. We
accessed the website February 14, 2025 to update the EIQ equation below (Eshenaur et al. 19922020).
EIQ=

[Applicator Farm Worker]+ [Consumer]+ [Ecological (fish, birds, bees, earthworms)]
[C((DT*5)+(DT*P))]+[(C*((S+P)/2)*SY)+(L)]+[(F*R)+(D*((S+P)/2)*3)+(Z*P*3)+(B*P*5)+(E*S*3)]/3

Where DT = dermal toxicity, C = chronic toxicity, SY = systemicity, F = fish toxicity, L
= leaching potential, R = surface loss potential, D = bird toxicity, S = soil half-life, Z =
bee toxicity, B = beneficial arthropod toxicity, P = plant surface residue half-life, E =
earthworms, S = soil residue half-life.
The EIQ method for calculating pesticide impacts takes into account three components:
farm worker risk, consumer risk, and ecological fate and risk. Farm worker risk includes the
assessment of both applicator and picker exposure (i.e., farmer), which is equivalent to a golfer
or athlete, as well as chronic toxicity. The consumer component includes exposure of the
consumer to the pesticide, as well as any ground water effects (i.e., a leaching component).
Lastly, ecological risk (which includes a runoff component) is assessed by examining the aquatic
and terrestrial effects to fish, birds, bees, arthropods, and earthworms (a new component added in
2024 to the calculator).
The percent active ingredient and the rate of application are input into the EIQ calculator
for a particular pesticide selected from the dropdown list on the website one at a time (Grant, J.
A., 2010-2020). The results provide an EIQ value and an overall field use rating value (i.e.,
FEIQ) for the pesticide, as well as risk ratings for the worker, consumer, and ecological
components. The values for each component can then be compared quantitatively. The lower the
value the lower the risk, e.g., a rating <25 = very low risk and a rating >200 = very high risk. See
Table 3.
The Field EIQ is determined by multiplying the EIQ by the percent active ingredient (as a
decimal) and the application rate (lb/A). Thus, the Field Use EIQ (FEIQ) can be used to
determine different management strategies.
EIQ Field Use Rating = EIQ x % active ingredient x Rate (lb/ac)
OUR APPROACH AND RES UL TS

The Superintendent, Brett Scales, provided the percent active ingredient, the application
rate, the number of applications, the areas of applications, and the target organisms (Table 1) for
each of the seven proposed pesticides containing 11 active ingredients. The recent (2023)
2

Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.
regrassing of greens, approaches, tees, and fairways will allow the Superintendent to spray less
fungicide as the new grass is much more disease resistant.
Many of the added herbicides are specialty products to help prevent or remove bentgrass
and poa annua from growing in undesirable playing areas. In most cases products will be spot
sprayed and only where and when needed.
SurePower® is a herbicide that contains four active ingredients (2,4-D, triclopyr,
fluroxypyr, and flumioxazin), which are mixed at lower percent active ingredients than stand
alone active ingredients. One of the four herbicides is already on the list of approved products:
2,4-D. However, we evaluated it as well because the product's active ingredients are added
together for the result (Table 3).
Velocity PM®(a.i. bispyribac sodium) was previously on the list of approved products
but was inadvertently left off of the 'current list' in our 2021 report (ETS, 2021).
As stated above, the calculator is simple to use and only requires two input parameters,
although at least a dozen input parameters are already built into the calculator's ranking scheme
(see EIQ equation above). If a Tier 2 evaluation is needed, we would conduct a more detailed
evaluation of the pesticide's mobility, persistence, and toxicity for those pesticides that raise a
concern in Tier 1 (the FEIQ). We found it unnecessary to perform a Tier 2 evaluation for the
proposed pesticides at this time.
Presented in Table I are the seven proposed products and their active ingredients: two
fungicides (two active ingredients) and five herbicides (nine active ingredients). Three of the
proposed products are on EPA's reduced risk pesticide list'. One product (the herbicide
methiozolin) was recently registered in New York State in 2021 with restricted use. One
additional proposed pesticide is not in the calculator: pyrimisulfan. However, we were able to
obtain the results for the two missing pesticides directly from the NYSIPM (Table 3).
Table 2 provides a list of the pesticides that are currently available for use, and those that
will be removed or discontinued. We evaluated one of the pesticides (bispyribac sodium) that
had already been approved since it was inadvertently left off the approved list in 2021. There is
no need to evaluate those that will be discontinued. This list is provided for completeness of
products that can be used at the HNGC.
Table 3 provides the results of the EIQ's three components for the proposed pesticides.
The individual components are also listed for all proposed pesticides. Each of the three
components' values is compared with the risk rating (e.g., v. low, low, etc.) to show those
pesticides with a potential risk and the component that is responsible for any elevated rating. It is
recommended by the NYSIPM program that if a product contains more than one active
ingredient the components should be calculated individually and then added together for the final
result of each component. The NYSIPM program states that when actives are mixed they can
present synergies or antagonisms that increase or reduce the hazard (Obregon, 2024).
1

The Office of Pesticide Program's Conventional Reduced Risk Pesticide Program expedites the review and regulatory decisionmaking process of conventional pesticides that pose less risk to human health and the environment than existing conventional
alternatives.

3

Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.
All but three of the proposed pesticides' active ingredients show very low to low FEIQ
ratings (Table 3). The Sure Power product has four active ingredients and the components were
added together as recommended. Sure Power has a total FEIQ of 41 (low, i.e., <50); however,
the worker component shows a moderate rating of 61.9 due to 2,4-D, which suggests a moderate
risk to the applicator/golfer. In any case, this product still has a low risk for the total FEIQ. The
FEIQ for methiozolin (PoaCure) is low (34.3); however, the worker (i.e., applicator/golfer) has a
moderate rating of 64. Pyrimisulfan (Akron) has a very low FEIQ rating of 2.23; however, the
ecological component has a rating of moderate of 56. See Table 3 for these results.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
We recommend that all seven of the proposed products containing 11 active ingredients
be approved for use as requested. In addition, we recommend that the labels be strictly followed
for the three products whose results had a component with a moderate rating: Sure Power,
PoaCure, and Akron. If the products are used according to the label, the risks can be minimized.
We provide a complete list of pesticides that can be used at the Hudson National Golf
Club in Table 4 (i.e., current and proposed), assuming that the new products evaluated in this
letter report are approved.
If you have any questions, please let us know.
Thank you,
LaJan Barnes, P.G., NY State (#000915-01)

4~
Stuart Cohen, Ph.D.

s
cc: Brett Scales, HNGC

4

Enviromnental & Turf Services, Inc.

REFERENCES

Eshenaur, B., Grant, J., Kovach, J., Petzoldt, C., Degni, J., and Tette, J.
www.nysipm.cornell.edu/publications/EIQ. Environmental Impact Quotient: "A Method to
Measure the Environmental Impact of Pesticides." New York State Integrated Pest Management
Program, Cornell Cooperative Extension, Cornell University. 1992- 2020.
ETS, 2021. April 28, 202 l. The Hudson National Golf Course - Proposed Pesticide Use Update
to the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). Environmental & Turf Services, Inc., Wheaton,
Maryland 20902.
Grant, J. A. https://cals.cornell.edu/new-york-state-integrated-pest-management/riskassessment/eiq/eiq-calculator Calculator for Field Use EIQ (Environmental Impact Quotient).
New York State Integrated Pest Management Program, Cornell Cooperative Extension, Cornell
University. 2010-2020.
Kovach, J ., Petzoldt, C., Degni, J., and Tette, J. 1992. A method to measure the environmental
impact of pesticides. New York's Food and Life Sciences Bulletin 139:1-8.
Obregon, Diana. 2024 EIQ User Guide (July 2024). New York State Integrated Pet Management
Program. Cornell University.
New York State 1PM Program. 2025. Field Use EIQ Calculator version 1.0. Accessed 14
February 2025. https://eig.nysipm.org calculator.

5

Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.

Table 2. Current Pesticide and Pesticides Requested for Removal (2025)
Trade Name
Active lneredients
Trade Name
Active Ingredients
10 Current Use Funeicides
Pro Star
Flutolanil
Emerald
Boscalid
Fore
Mancozeb
Chipco 26GT
lprodione
BannerMAXX
Propiconazole
Torque
Tebuconazole
3336®
Thiophanate methyl
Chipco Signature Fosetyl-Al
SubdueMAXX
Metalaxyl
Heritage
Azoxystrobin

Nine Current Use Herbicides
Ethofumesate
Prograss
Trimmit
Paclobutrazol
MCPP
MCPP
Barrage
2,4-D
Banvel
Dicamba
Pendulum
Pendimethalin
Treflon
Trifluralin
Lontrel
Clopyralid
Velocity
Bispyribac-Sodium
Three Current Use Insecticides
Dylox
Trichlorfon
Merit
Imidacloprid
Acelepryn
Chlorantraniliprole

Three Funeicides for Removal
Spotrete
Thiram
Terrazole
Etridiazole
Endorse
Polyoxin Zinc Salt

Approved for Use Growth Regulator
Two Insecticides for Removal
Trimmit
Paclobutrazol *
Sevin
Carbary!
Cimectacarb*(TrinexapacPrimo
Scimitar
Lambda Cyhalothrin
ethyl)
Pesticides shown in grey shading are requested to be removed from the current use list.
* Paclobutrazol and trinexapac-ethyl (also known as cimectacarb) are also used as herbicides.

7

Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.

Table 3. HNGC Environmental Impact Quotient (EIQ)
Rate
(oz/M)**

EIQ

Field
EIO

Prothioconazole
Picarbutrazox !

0.195
0.799

49.3
43.0

11.2
19.0

Bispyribac Sodium!
Methiozolin"'
Pyrimisulfan"
Fluroxypyr§!
Flumioxazin§

0.017
1.2
1.7

Active Ingredients

FEIQ
Worker
FEIQ*
Ratinett
FUNGICIDES
very low
18.2
very low
21.2

Worker
Ratins?tt

Consumer
FEIQi

Consumer
Ratingtt

Ecological
FEIQt

Ecological
Ratingtt

very low
very low

7.3
4.9

very low
very low

8.2
30.9

very low
low

HERBICIDES

very low
1.2
very low
0.3
very low
Very low
1.1
low
64
14
moderate
very low
48
low
very low
48
low
13
very low
56
moderate
very low
8.2
very low
1.4
very low
3.5
very low
very low
0.5
very low
0.1
very low
0.3
very low
1
2,4-D§
low
61.9
moderate
9.3
very low
22.7
very low
triclopyr§
very low
9.3
very low
1.7
very low
3.9
very low
low
79.9
Total for Sure Power
-moderate
12.5
very low
30.4
low
-Dithiopyr
0.367
21.7
very low
7.0
very low
1.8
very low
7.5
very low
** All application units were converted to oz/M (ounces/1000 sq ft) for simplicity of this table. Table 1 above shows the label units.
tt "Rating" in this context, means qualitative risk. The ratings are based on the values: <25 = very low; <50 = low; 50-99 = moderate;
l 00-199 = high; and 200+ = very high
* The worker component is equivalent to the applicator or athlete/golfer
t The leaching component (i.e., likelihood of leaching to ground water) includes food residue, which is not applicable on a golf course.
t The ecological component includes fish, birds, bees, earthworms, and beneficial pests
! These pesticides are on the EPA' s reduced risk pesticide list.
✓ The results for these two pesticides were provided by the NYSIPM.
§ Sure Power active ingredients
23
42
39
42.7
46.3
30.3
48.2

0.9
34.3
2.23
4.4
0.3
31.3
5.0
41
5.2

NOTE: The Field Use EIQ calculator provides unitless relative safety ratings, standardized to lbs/acre, based on product weight and
application area provided by user. Conversions are based on active ingredient characteristics using the environmental impact quotient
formula described in this article. A method to measure the environmental impact of pesticides.

8

Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.

Table 4. Complete Approved Pesticide Use List for the HNGC (2021) and Proposed* (2025)
Trade Names

Active Ineredients

Pro Star
Emerald
Fore
Spotrete
Chipco 26GT
BannerMAXX
Torque
3336
Terrazole
Chipco Signature
Subdue MAXX
Heritage
Endorse
Secure
Posterity
Maxtima
Insignia
Segwav
Exemplar
Tourney
Densicor*
Serata*

Flutolanil
Boscalid
Mancozeb
Thiram
lprodione
Propiconazole
Tebuconazole
Thiophanate methyl
Etridiazole
Fosetyl-Al
Metalaxyl
Azoxystrobin
Polyoxin Zinc Salt
Fluazinam
Pydiflumetofen
Mefentrifluconazole
Pyraclostrobin
Cyazofamid
Fluxapyroxad
Metconazole
Prothioconazole
Picarbutrazox

Prograss
Trimmit
MCPP
Barrage
Banvel
Pendulum
Treflon
Lontrel
Pvlex
Acclaim
Segment II
Tenacity
Quick Silver
Barricade
Velocity*
Poa-Cure*
Arkon*
SurePower*
Dimension 2EW*

Ethofumesate
Paclobutrazol
MCPP
2,4-D
Dicamba
Pendimethalin
Trifluralin
Clopyralid
Topramezone
Fenoxoprop
Sethoxydim
Mesotrione
Carfentrazone-ethyl
Prodiamine
Bispyribac-sodlum
Methiozolin
Pyrimisulfan
Fluroxypyr*, Tryclopyr*, Flumioxazin*, 2,4-D
Dithioovr

Funeicides

Herbicides

9

Environmental & Turf Services, Inc.

Table 4. (cont'd)

Insecticides
Sevin
Dylox
Scimitar
Merit
Acelepryn
Talstar
Ferrence
Matchpoint

Carbaryl
Trichlorfon
Lambda Cyhalothrin
Imidacloprid
Chlorantraniliprole
Bifenthrin
Cyantraniliprole
Spinosad

Growth Re2ulators
Trimrnit
Paclobutrazol
Primo
Cimectacarb (Trinexapac-ethyl)
Anuew
Prohexadione-Ca
* These seven products are proposed for use in 2025. One product is already on the approved list but
is tagged here for completeness in this report.

10

