Planning Board Meeting Minutes
November 21st, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
ABSENT: Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of November 21, 2023 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING

a) Ameriland Brook, LLC, 352 S. Riverside Ave. (79.13-1-74) Application for Site Plan
Approval and associated approvals, including any waiver of off-street parking spaces
for a mixed-use building.
The Public Hearing remains open from November 7th , 2023. Property owner Lijuan Jiang was present in
support of the application. The applicant sent in a lighting plan, but Dan O'Connor stated that in addition
to what was presented, the Planning Board would need cut sheets for the light fixtures. Additionally, the
Planning Board felt that the pole lights should be moved to another location. As presented, the light
levels were elevated ranging from ten down to eight, with five being a more typical light level, so the
applicant was asked to redo the lighting plan. Suggestions to the applicant included having foot candle
measurements throughout the parking lot. The lights along the alleyway seemed adequate for that area,
but the Planning Board requested details as to what the light levels were in the alleyway. The Planning
Board also asked for clarification on illumination on neighboring properties and stated that this must be
addressed. It was suggested that the applicant's architect speak with Dan O'Connor for clarification on
what the applicant needs to show regarding the lighting plan.
When asked if she had spoken with the owner of the deli next door who shares the alleyway, the
applicant stated that she had and the deli owner was happy that she planned to make improvements in
their shared alleyway space. It was suggested that the applicant may want to get something in writing
from the deli owner, acknowledging their agreement.
The Planning Board was happy to see that the applicant's revised plans showed a planter replacing the
railing in front of the existing restaurant, as they had suggested. The applicant brought a sample of both
siding and window trim which showed contrast between the two colors.
Chairman Luntz called for comments from the public, and there were none.
Steve Krisky made a motion to close the public hearing for Ameriland Brook, LLC, 352 South Riverside
Avenue, seconded by John Ghegan and the motion carried 5 - 0.
Chairman Luntz stated that the applicants will need to apply for variances from the Zoning Board of
Appeals and stated that the Planning Board would be willing to write a letter in support of the application.
Steve Krisky stated that he would like to see some schematics for the planter that is proposed to go in
place of the railing in front of the existing restaurant.

1

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Ordonez, Marco, M & J Auto Repair 1 Corp., 485 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-291) Amended Site Plan Approval for Existing Shed.

Marco Ordonez was present in support of the application. Mr. Ordonez is applying for approval for an
existing shed on the property which was installed without a permit, which is a violation of Village Code.
Chairman Luntz stated that a public hearing needs to be called to approve the Amended Site Plan for
the existing shed. Regarding the existing retaining wall on the property which is also a violation, it was
reiterated that the retaining wall is the responsibility of the property owner. Dan O'Connor stated that a
notice of violation was issued to the property owner today (November 21, 2023). Dan O'Connor
reported that the landlord conveyed that the property is in contract to be sold and the new owner is
aware of the violation. A recently completed title search for this property listed the existing violations.
Dan O'Connor pulled up pictures of the shed which contains a compressor, used oil, oil filters, and used
anti-freeze. Dan O'Connor stated that visually, the shed it is not impactful, but the noise from the
compressor would have an impact inside the auto repair shop as it would be loud. The used oil is stored
in a 200-gallon drum and the used anti-freeze in a 55-gallon drum. The applicant stated that there is a
company that comes to pick up the used liquids. Geoff Haynes asks about the oil that is stored in the
shed and wanted to make sure there is appropriate environmental handling of these liquids. Dan
O'Connor stated that he would ask the fire inspector to take a look.
Steve Krisky asked about the sign application which was sent to the VEB for review and was hopeful
that some feedback from the VEB would be available at the next meeting.
James Picciano, owner of Straddles Gymnastics (the tenant space next to M & J Auto Repair 1 Corp.)
was present to speak on the application. Mr. Picciano stated that he has no issues with the applicant.
Mr. Picciano has a major issue with the gate that is on the property. Mr. Picciano states that the gate is
often locked which causes cars and trucks to speed in the parking lot past his gymnastics center which
has children regularly going in and out. Mr. Picciano believes that addressing the issue of the gate is a
safety issue that is the responsibility of the property owner, not the applicant who is also a tenant.
Chairman Luntz invited Mr. Picciano to come back to speak at the public hearing if he would like and
encouraged the applicant to have a conversation with the property owner regarding the gate as it is sure
to come up at the public hearing.
Steve Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing for the Amended Site Plan for 485 South
Riverside Avenue, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

b) Weinstein, Martin & Gerald 1339 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-6)- Legalization of
Existing Accessory Apartment
This application has been moved to the December 5th meeting date as the neighbor notification did not
go out in time.

c) Request from Village Board for Review and Feedback on Traffic Study for Potential
Cannabis Dispensary at 440 South Riverside Avenue
At the request of the Village Board, the Planning Board reviewed the Traffic and Parking Assessment
prepared by Swans Engineering, PLLC, dated 11 /12/23 for a Potential Cannabis Dispensary at 440
South Riverside Avenue.
Applicant Thomas Moore, Jr., Attorney Andrew Schriever and Traffic Engineer Erica Swansen were all
present in support of the application. The traffic engineer reported that based on the data that she

2

collected, the parking lot has the capacity to handle the increased demand that the cannabis dispensary
could create. The data was measured at peak times on weekdays and weekends, and accounted for
increased vehicular traffic during The Blaze.
The applicant is also prepared to have mitigation measures if there did appear to be an overflow of traffic
including having an off-site space with shuttle service to the dispensary or to have someone directing
traffic. The applicants believe that when they first open, there will be robust traffic and curiosity seekers,
but anticipate that patrons may eventually make use of the delivery service that will be offered.
The Planning Board asked about Viridian Valley and the proposed Viridian Valley Dispensary and the
applicant stated that he has been working in the cannabis industry for several years and also knows the
Croton community. The applicant stated that the dispensary would be subtle, consumer friendly and that
no product would be packaged on site.
The Planning Board discussed existing vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the shopping center with the
applicant and their attorney and engineer and there was a consensus that all could work together during
any future application to the Planning Board for a change of use approval, etc. to further review existing
and future conditions and recommend some suggestions to improve vehicle and pedestrian safety and
flow in the shopping center.

3) APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes November 7th, 2023
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of November 7th, 2023, as
amended, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0, with Eva Thaddeus
abstaining as she was absent for the November 7th meeting.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:40 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes accepted, as amended, on December 5th , 2023, by a vote of 5-0.***

3

