Planning Board Meeting Minutes
December 5th, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison

1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of December 5th, 2023 to order at 8:01 p.m.

2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) Ordonez, Marco M&J Auto Repair 1 Corp., 485 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-2-91)
Amended Site Plan Approval for Existing Shed

Geoff Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion
carried, 5-0.
Chairman Luntz noted that at its regularly scheduled meeting on December 4th , 2023, the Village Board
voted to approve for the applicant's Special Permit to run an auto body shop for a period of eighteen
months. A condition of the permit stated that "Site improvements addressing the potential conflict
between pedestrians entering and exiting the Straddles business and vehicles entering and exiting the M
& J Auto Repair business be incorporate into the amended site plan. The Planning Board shall consider
the relocation of the entrance to the M & J Auto Repair business to a location north of the current gate
opening in addition to other improvements deemed appropriate by the Planning Board. The Planning
Board as part of their amended site plan shall establish a reasonable time frame for the completion of
the site improvements." Dan O'Connor stated that another option could be cutting an opening in the
gate. The applicant does not require a gate, but the applicant is a tenant, not the property owner, so he
does not want to pay to have the gate moved or modified. Planning Board members believe that, in the
interest of safety for patrons entering the gymnastics center, there should be additional striping painted
on the parking where vehicles should not drive. Another safety option that was suggested was placing
bollards in the lot to block access to areas where people could be walking. In an attempt to come to a
resolution on the gate, and possible upgrades to the parking lot, the Planning Board will send a letter to
the property owner inviting him to come to the next Planning Board meeting.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the public, and Straddles owner James Picciano spoke and
brought a picture of what the site plan should be when he opened Straddles years ago. M & J Auto
opened during Covid, so they had the Site Plan Meeting via Zoom. The pictures that Mr. Picciano
brought showed additional striping in the parking lot and Chairman Luntz said that what Mr. Picciano's
requests are consistent with what the Planning Board is looking for. Mr. Picciano also expressed
concerns about trucks idling near the Straddles party room.
The Planning Board left the public hearing open and will invite the property owner to come to the next
meeting to resolve some issues regarding this parking lot so that they can move forward with approving
the site plan application for M & J Auto Repair 1 Corp.

3.

NEW BUSINESS

1

a) Weinstein, Martin & Gerald 1339 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-6)- Legalization of
Existing Accessory Apartment
While looking through old records, it was discovered that the special permit for this accessory apartment
(Cottage) had expired for the property located at 1339 Albany Post Road. The homeowner was notified
about the permit's expiration, and he applied to renew the permit. It was noted that on July 27th , 2005,
the Zoning Board of Appeals issued a variance to allow a separate, detached building to be considered
for an accessory apartment.
Chairman Luntz read over the conditions of the resolution, including noting that the applicants have 45
days to notify the Village Engineer that they there are smoke detectors in each bedroom and a
combination (or separate) smoke and carbon monoxide detector within 15' outside of each bedroom.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the application to renew the existing accessory apartment
(cottage) at 1339 Albany Post Road with the conditions listed in the resolution, seconded by Geoff
Haynes, and carried, 5 - 0.

4.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Ameriland Brook, LLC- 352 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-1-74) Application for Site
Plan Approval and any associated approvals, including any waiver of off-street parking
spaces for a mixed-use building

Chairman Luntz stated that the revised lighting plan looks much better and that the fixtures were
relocated to places that make sense. The applicant did not get anything in writing from the deli owner
next door stating that he was ok with improvements to their shared space in the alleyway, and the
Planning Board reiterated that they thought that the applicant should use good faith efforts to enter into a
mutual agreement with the adjacent property (deli) owner to have the proposed concrete walkway
between the two buildings extend from building to building. Dan O'Connor shared a memo that he wrote
to the architect that contained twelve comments regarding the plans. The Planning Board felt that the
comments detailed in the Engineer's memo could be addressed during the building permit approval
process. Steve Krisky requested that a condition be added to the resolution that, on page A-004.00,
titled "Proposed Elevations" and submitted on December 4th , 2023 (drawn on March 13th , 2023), the
word "Proposed" be removed from the drawing where it says "Proposed Planter to Replace Steel
Railing," so that it reads, "Planter to Replace Steel Railing." John Ghegan suggested an additional
condition to the resolution, stating that the site plan be revised to show the foundations for the parking lot
light poles extending above the ground surface sufficient height to protect the light poles from vehicle
impacts.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the application for Ameriland Brook, LLC at 352 South Riverside
Avenue (79.13-1-74), seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 5-0.
b) Maple Commons, 43-45 Maple Street (78.12-3-3) Review and Approval of proposed sign
The Advisory Board on the Visual Environment reviewed the proposed sign and provided their
comments to the Planning Board. The VEB had some concerns about the size of the sign, noting that it
could potentially block the sight line of drivers on Maple Street, so the sign should move slightly.
Additionally, as presented, the sign is larger than what is allowed as per the Zoning Code. Dan
O'Connor noted that the Planning Board could waive the size requirement, if they choose to do so.
The Planning Board Members questioned the words "Rental Residences" and did not think that they
were necessary. Steve Krisky had a number of issues with the sign, including that the website listed
should not be in all capital letters. After much discussion, it was determined that feedback from both the

2

VEB and the Planning Board would be given to the applicants along with a request for some revisions to
the sign proposed for Maple Commons.
c)

Metro Physical Therapy- 46 Maple Street (79.9-1-77)- Sign Permit Review

The Advisory Board on the Visual Environment reviewed this sign permit in July, 2023 and had no
comments. It was noted that a condition of the resolution issued with the Change of Use Approval for
this property was that the Planning Board approve any Sign Permit Application. The Planning Board had
no objections to this existing sign, but Steve Krisky wondered when the "Now Open" temporary signage
would be taken down and Dan O'Connor stated that temporary signs were allowed for a period of 45
days.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the existing sign for Metro Physical Therapy, seconded by
John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 5-0.

3) APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes November 21st, 2023
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of November 21st, 2023, as
amended, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

4) ENGINEER'S REPORT
Geoff Haynes asked about the traffic light at the corner of Maple Street and Municipal Place, specifically
that the Village Manager mentioned at a recent meeting that the DOT stated that this traffic light did not
need a modem. Geoff Haynes stated that there was recent discussion that this traffic light was in need
of an upgrade, maybe with sensors. Geoff Haynes went on to say that this light needed to be improved
as it is one of the more troublesome traffic lights in the Village. It was also noted that there is the
potential for increased traffic in this area due to new developments. The Planning Board would like the
Village Manager to revisit the issue of this traffic light.
Eva Thaddeus questioned the angle of the steep slope at Maple Commons and wondered if it changed .
Dan O'Connor stated that the original plan called for a retaining wall, but the plan was modified. Eva
Thaddeus is concerned that the wildflower mix that is supposed to be planted there will need to be
mowed once a year, but the steep angle makes it unmowable. It was noted that the developer is
responsible for maintenance and that there will be a super on site to take care of these issues.
Regarding Maple Commons at 43-45 Maple Street, they are currently on schedule and will no longer be
working until 8:00 p.m .
Regarding the "Best Web" project at 25 South Riverside Avenue, they are currently installing utilities and
will then call in the surveyor to do the as builts.
The solar installation at the train station is way behind schedule, but once they get going, it should move
along quickly.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:37 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton, Secretary to the Planning Board
***Minutes approved, as amended, at meeting held on 12/20/23 by a vote of 4-0 with R. Luntz
absent**

3

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board held a public hearing for an Amended Site Plan application on
November 71h, 2023, which closed on November 21 st, 2023 for Ameriland Brook LLC, hereafter
known as "the Applicant." The subject property, owned by Spring Come LLC, is located at 352
South Riverside Avenue in a C-2 General Commercial Zoning District and Harmon/South Riverside
Gateway Overlay Zone and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as
Section 79.13 Block 1 Lot 74; and
WHEREAS, this amended site plan application was submitted to add a three-story mixed-use
building next to their existing one-story commercial building located at 352 South Riverside
Avenue; and
WHEREAS, a Site Plan, Environmental Assessment Form, Coastal Assessment Form, and
photographs have been summitted with the application; and
WHEREAS, the proposal is for a three-story mixed-use occupancy building; and
WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQ RA), the
above action is considered a Type 2 Action. A Negative Declaration was issued by the Village
Board on July 241h, 2023; and
WHEREAS, on September 6th , 2023 the Village's Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) made
a recommendation of consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program; and
WHEREAS, on September 26 1h, 2023, the Village Board issued a special permit for a mixed-use
occupancy subject to specific conditions contained therein; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Amended Site Plan application as shown on
"Enlargement 352 S Riverside Avenue, NY 10520" last revised on November 20 th , 2023 entitled
Zoning Analysis & Plot Plan Z-001.00, Exist. Site Plan Z-001.00, Building Rendering Z-001,
Existing/Demo Floor Plans DM-001.00, Proposed Floor Plans A-002.00, Proposed Floor Plans A003.00, and Lighting Plot Plan E-001.00 prepared by Ameriland Brook LLC, architect/zoning &
building code/interior design, Queens, NY be approved subject to the following conditions:
1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, all conditions specified in the Special Permit issued by the Village Board
on September 26, 2023 are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
3. That, the sign(s) application be submitted to the Advisory Board on the Visual
Environment for their review and recommendation to the Planning Board, and
that the applicant return to the Planning Board for final approval of the
sign(s).
4. That the architectural plans for the building submitted for the building permit
application substantially comply with the architectural plans for the building
approved by the Planning Board.
5. That, a construction staging/sequencing plan, and schedule be submitted with
the building permit application.
6. That, the site plans submitted with the building permit application shall be
revised to address the comments in the memorandum from the Village Engineer
dated 12/5/23.
7. That, the applicant shall apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals for all required
variances. If one or more variances are not approved by the Zoning Board of
Appeals and/or the Zoning Board of Appeals requires changes to the site plan
the applicant shall return to the Planning Board for approval of any necessary
site plan revisions.

2
8. That, in accordance with section 208-12 of the Village Code the applicant shall
receive approval of the Superintendent for the removal of the two street-trees
noted on the site plan to be removed.
9. That, the applicant shall use good faith efforts to enter into a mutual agreement
with the owner adjacent property owner to have the proposed concrete walkway
between the two buildings extend from building to building.
10. That, on page A-004.00, titled "Proposed Elevations" and submitted on
December 41h, 2023 (drawn on March 13 1'\ 2023), the word "Proposed" be
removed from the drawing where it says "Proposed Planter to Replace Steel
Railing," so that it reads, "Planter to Replace Steel Railing."
11. That, the site pl~n be revised to show the foundations for the parking lot light
poles extending above the ground surface sufficient height to protect the light
poles from vehicle impacts.
12. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the a pp ro v a 1 of the
excavation and fill work:
a. That, suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall
be locked at all times when work is not being performed on the
property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to stormwater drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That, during construction all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom not be greater than one foot.
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented onsite
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
1.
That, any excess soil from the excavation shall be removed from the
site immediately but in no event more than 20 days from excavation.
j. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of top soil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded
and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass

3
coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on the
approved landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two-to-three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend
this period on a day-by-day basis due to weather events that would
not allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan
shall also include an analysis of leaving part of the basement a crawl
space to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
I. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-l0(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a submission
of a new application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer if requested. The Village Engineer may
require the submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 12010(E)-(G) of the Village Code.
13. That, the following conditions are established as part of the approval of the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the Village Code.
a. That, a copy of the SWPPP shall be retained at the site of the land
development activity during construction from the date of initiation of
construction activities to the date of final stabilization.
b. That, no land disturbance work shall commence until the installation
of the sediment and erosion control devices has been completed and
found acceptable by the Village Engineer or his authorized agent.

4
c. That, each contractor and subcontractor who will be involved in soil
disturbance and/or stormwater management practice installation shall
sign and date a copy of the following certification statement before
undertaking any land development activity: "I certify under penalty of
law that I understand and agree to comply with the terms and
conditions of the stormwater pollution prevention plan. I also
understand that it is unlawful for any person to cause or contribute to
a violation of water quality standards." Copies of these statements
shall be delivered to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
1. That, the certification must include the name and title of the
person providing the signature, address and telephone number
of the contracting firm; the address (or other identifying
description) of the site; and the date the certification is made.
11. That, the certification shall contain proof that each contractor
who will be involved in a land development activity has
obtained training and/or certification in proper erosion and
sedimentation control practices. Such certification shall
become part of the SWPPP for the land development activity
and shall be retained on-site.
d. That, the applicable stormwater facility maintenance, inspection and
repair requirements in section 196-9 of the Village Code be
complied with, the stormwater dry wells shall be inspected annually
within 48 to 72 hours after a heavy rainfall (1" or more) to determine
that the chambers have drained. If the dry wells have not drained
remedial action shall be taken to rebuild the storm water management
system and restore the infiltrative capacity of the soil. An inspection
manhole shall be provided.
e. That, deep and percolation tests be conducted in the area of the storm
water dry wells (unless waived by the Village Engineer due to sand
and gravel soils) and that an engineer's report on the soil testing, and
redesign if the percolation rate is greater than 15 minutes/inch, be
submitted to and approved by the Village Engineer prior to installation
of the chambers.
f. That, the applicant shall contact the Village Engineer at least 48
hours before any of the work inspections listed in section 19610(A)(l) of the VillageCodearerequired.
g. That, in accordance with section 196-lO(C) an as-built plan of the
stormwater management practices shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer.
h. That, in accordance with section 196-1 O(F) the landowner shall grant
to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in
a reasonable manner for the inspection of the stormwater management
facilities.
1.
That, the bases of the light poles in the parking lot be enlarged to
prevent damage when cars are parking.
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and void.
Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the
expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of

5
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Rob Luntz, Chairperson
JohnGhegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Steve Krisky, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on December 5th, 2023.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on December 51h, 2023, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York, considered the application of Martin & Gerald Weinstein for the renewal of an existing
accessory apartment (cottage) at the property located at 13 39 Albany Post Road and designated on
the Tax Maps as Section 67.10 Block 2 Lot 6; and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans)
for the renewal of said existing accessory apartment (cottage); and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed;
and
WHEREAS, the applicants are the owners of the property and is the primary occupant of the
single-family dwelling; and
WHEREAS, the existing accessory apartment (cottage) meets the required number of off-street
parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, on July 27, 2005, the Zoning Board of Appeals issued variances to Gerald Weinstein
to allow a separate, detached building to be considered for an accessory apartment at 1339 Albany
Post Road, the following variances were issued:
1) Variance from Section 230-41 (H) with respect to accessory apartments being permitted
only within the main structure.
2) Variance from Section 230-9 (A)(2) to allow 2nd detached dwelling on one lot as an
accessory apartment.
3) Variance of810 sq.ft. is granted from Section 230-41 (K) with respect to habitable floor
area in order to permit a 1,560 sq.ft. accessory structure.
4) Variance from Section 230-40(A)(l))(a) of the Village Code with respect to Height
requirements to allow the proposed accessory building to be 18 feet, 7 inches in height.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application
submitted by Martin & Gerald Weinstein for the renewal of an existing accessory apartment as
shown on the floor plans entitled" "Weinstein Cottage," prepared by Rene Robert Mueller, July,
2004, subject to Section 230-41 (C) of the Village Code and the following conditions:
1. That, a smoke detector be provided in each bedroom and a combination (or separate)
smoke and carbon monoxide detectors be provided within 15' outside of the bedroom
within 30 days.
2. That, the Planning Board approval for an accessory apartment shall become null and
void within 90 days of any of the following events: a) change of property ownership;
b) death of the property owner(s); or c) change in residence of the owner. The
Planning Board may grant a ninety-day extension past the expiration for good cause,
including that an application has been filed to continue an accessory apartment use.

3. Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment use, then the owner shall apply to the Planning Board for renewal of the
approval.
4. That, the current owner is to make any subsequent buyer aware of the requirement of
approval for the renewal of an existing accessory apartment.
5. That, notification by the applicant to the Village Engineer that they are in compliance
with condition #1 within 45 days.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoffrey Haynes, and carried by a vote of 5 to
0.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on December 5th, 2023.

