February 2025
Croton-on-Hudson Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee
February 2025 Meeting Minutes
​
Date: Feb 20, 2025– 7:30-9:00pm​
Present: Matt Arnold (chair), John Ealer (CAC), Barry Scheer, Riley Moeller (by phone), Len Simon (ex
officio), Scott Marsh (DPW)
●​ January meeting minutes accepted
●​ DPW Updates (Scott)
●​ Sidewalk survey - update (need repair list from DPW)
●​ Scott has master list based on the 40/60 program - Action: send reminder to
share
●​ Refreshed stripping for bike lanes - on Riverside
●​ Stripping coming in Summer
●​ See items below earmarked for next month’s agenda
●​ Gotwalt - signage, lines, stop signage / painting at Whalen, etc. - coming in
Spring/Summer
●​ Scott to look at installing an interim stop sign at Whalen (in advance
●​ Project MOVER updates (Len)
●​ Library on board to be a hub/station location
●​ Preference to preserve existing (much needed parking - and aim is likely to be to
install a slab in front for station
●​ Once list / survey is revised, can be shared w/ Engineering dept to inform their
enforcement efforts
●​ Commitment received this morning for Maple Commons as a hub location
●​ Village to issue a Survey next week describing the program with list of target hub stations
(w/ justification) - seeking community feedback
●​ Next steps: meeting w/ Shared Mobility to finalize station locations; sign contracts and
begin implementation work
●​ Aim for go-live by June or July
●​ Earth Day preparations
●​ John Ealer - chair of the Conservation Advisory Council (CAC) - joined
●​ Date: Senasqua - May 3rd @ 11am-4pm
●​ Group Bike Ride
●​ Elements
●​ Family event (all ages)
●​ Make it fun - e.g., decorate your bike, funny costumes, etc.
●​ Learnings from Pedigo - e.g., Cranksgiving Ride (part scavenger
hunt, fun ride, etc.)
●​ Give more thought to a “prize” or treat at the end
●​ E.g., Pedigo rental passes, BBS or BP certs or treats
●​ Police escort - on bikes?
●​ A feature to drive people to the ED event
●​ Route
●​ Gather and start at Senasqua
●​ Head toward HMB

●​ Route along path
●​ Turnaround at Croton Point and return
●​ Time
●​ Noon start
●​ Next steps:
●​ Neal (BOE) - have planning developed early enough to get publicized w/
Jr and Sr high
●​ Aim to have planned ironed out in time for April newsletter
●​ Earth Day is an opportunity to advertise / socialize Project Mover
program
●​ Ossining willing to lend bikes for Earth Day as a demo/display
●​ BPC Table:
●​ Co-locate w/ Pedego table
●​ High School volunteers?
●​ Wheels for Croton program
●​ A project hosted by Croton Caring and the Croton Police Department.
●​ Organizing a bike giveaway on Saturday, May 17th at 10 AM.
●​ Children of families in need in Croton have been invited to receive a bike and a helmet.
●​ So far 75+ bikes have been donated and are spoken for.
●​ To help make the event a success, we are asking for volunteer help from the Bike &
Pedestrian Committee for upcoming repair days.
●​ Four dates scheduled for bike repair days:
●​ Sunday, Feb 23, 12 pm to 4:00 pm
●​ Sunday, Mar 9, 12 pm to 4:00 pm
●​ Saturday Mar 22, 12 pm to 4:00 pm
●​ Sunday Mar 23, 12 pm to 4:00 pm
●​ Repair days will be held at the Village Municipal Building in the Community Room:
●​ Volunteers should bring their own tools.
●​ Any parts required will be supplied
●​ Bikes have been assessed with repairs noted on cards attached to each bike
●​ Bike repairs consist of brake adjustments, derailluer adjustments, tube
replacements, grip replacements, training wheels put on, with all bikes needing
lube on the chains
●​ Looking for volunteer help on the day of the giveaway (Saturday, May 17 @ 10 am).
Volunteer assignments will primarily include helping to fit new helmets and making any
slight adjustments to fit bikes.
●​ Repair Cafe
●​ AOB
●​ Agenda item(s) for next meeting (March):
●​ Sidewalks (raised by D. Castner):
●​ Discuss the google map sidewalk survey – with listing of the sidewalk
repairs and gaps the team created in 2020-2021.
●​ Which ones were addressed, and what remains?
●​ Where there are obvious gaps in sidewalk, how do we encourage home
owners (in partnership with the Village) to bridge those gaps?
●​ Examples:
●​ Van Cortlandt Place, Olcott, Morningside, Truesdale, Whelan,
Elmore, and Oneida, not to mention the Maple segment between
Beekman and Olcott with the completion of Maple Commons.

●​ Parking
●​ Long standing proposal / request to consider eliminating two parking
spots in front of former Maracas / Umumi location, as
●​ May be an opportunity to done in conjunction with the Project
Mover station installation
Actions:
●​ Sidewalk repairs list from DPW (repairs since 2021) to review against 2021 BPC sidewalk survey

