¥} APPROVED

Planning Board Meeting Minutes
March 21st, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT: Robert Luntz, Chairman
Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O’Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Sherry Horowitz, Village Board Trustee

ABSENT: Anne Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
John Ghegan

1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of March 21st, 2023 to order at 8:04 p.m.

2. NEW BUSINESS:
a) Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC — 1 Croton Point Ave. — Referral from Village Board
for Recommendation on the Issuance of a Special Permit

David McCallen was present in support of the application. The applicant is proposing to establish a
business office and small rectification operation in a portion of the basement of the property located at 1
Croton Point Avenue. The applicant is looking to rent two rooms, approximately 750 square feet. The
rectification operation involves purchasing 190 proof distilled spirits in 55-gallon drums, adding water to
dilute the alcohol content down to 80 proof, and bottling it. Rob Luntz asked if there will be any cooking
on the premises, and the applicant answered “No.” Steve Krisky asked about ventilation and the
applicant stated that he will be applying for a TTB (Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau) license,
a federal agency that regulates alcohol and will also be getting a state license. The applicant also
reported that the owner of the building is conscience about fire code. The applicant stated that the
ceiling in the basement is 9 % feet high, which is high for a basement. The applicant reports that he has
tried the rectification out in the basement of his home. The applicant reports that he plans to sell to
liquor stores and bars/restaurants in the NY Metro area. The applicant has one young man who works
with him who has experience in the industry. When asked about egress, the applicant replied that there
are two ways in and out of the building.

The applicant stated that he is seeking a one-year lease. The applicant reported that at any given time
there would be one 55-gallon drum containing alcohol and maybe 10-15 cases of bottled alcohol.
Approximately two times a week, a truck would come to pick up the alcohol for deliveries and at the start,
it will be the applicant himself in his personal SUV making the deliveries. The applicant anticipates that
he will sell between 500-1000 cases of alcohol in the first year. The applicant will need two parking
spaces for himself and his employee. The applicant will not be applying for a sign permit at this time as
he will not be open to the public. The applicant stated that there will be no odor from the rectification
process.

The Planning Board took into consideration the public health, safety and welfare and the comfort and
convenience of the public in general and of the residents of the immediate neighborhood in particular
and sent a recommendation to the Village Board which is attached to these minutes.

Steve Krisky made a motion to make a positive recommendation back to the Board of Trustees for the
application of Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC at 1 Croton Point Avenue, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and
the motion carried, 4-0.


3. OLD BUSINESS
a) Sol Systems — Veterans Plaza (79.17-2-10 and p/o 5) — Application for Wetland Permit
Revision for the addition of Stormwater Management System

Steve Meersma of TRC Engineers, Inc. was present in support of the application. Dan O’Connor
reported that a wetland permit was previously approved by Planning Board, but the Stormwater
Management System was not on the original plans and was not on the application that was sent to DEC.
Geoff Haynes asked if it was an oversite, and Steve Meersma replied that it was not an oversite but a
discussion that did not reach maturity at the time of the previous application. The major change in this
permit modification is the addition of a snow melt management system to direct stormwater falling on the
canopies to a system of underground pipelines to the existing stormwater management system via a
series of gutter and downspouts which will serve all twelve of the arrays within the wetland adjacent
area. There is no proposed work within the wetlands themselves. There will be 40 downspouts, with
each canopy having three or four downspouts, and the outflow will go to Croton Bay. The existing
stormwater drainage system was partially rebuilt and upgraded in 2019 when the DPW facility was
demolished. This proposed work is in the southern half of the system. In the northern half of the station,
north of the cell tower, there is existing drainage piping, so they are able to tie into that system and will
not need to construct a new outfall. Steve Meersma states that the solar panels on top of the canopy will
be gasketed, so more water tight, and the panels are slanted. Currently, in the southern canopies, south
of the cell tower, there is no existing stormwater drainage system, it is all overland flow. The storm water
is discharging to the same location, so it is not a fundamental change to flow. Rob Luntz believes that
this is an improvement to the plan.

Geoff Haynes asked if the system was designed for a twenty-five- or fifty-year rain storm. Steve
Meersma says that it is designed primarily for snow melt. The concern was that there would be a large
snowfall that melted and froze on the surface of the lot and this system is designed to alleviate that
circumstance. There is also the related issue of tides. At a high tide, there would be some pressure.

Steve Meersma was asked if he thought there would be any additional environmental impact as this
would channel more water into the outflows, and Steve Meersma did not think so as the site is
impervious, all paved, and it will still be impervious. The outfall was reconstructed in 2019 when there
were some improvements in grading, and the pipe size was enlarged. There will be additional flow
directed to the outfall, but it is manageable. For large storms, if the gutters overflow, it will flow over land
similarly to as it does now.

The applicant stated that effort was made to have the downspouts stay close to columns for safety
reasons. It was discussed that by capturing the water, there are benefits of cleaner water and a drier
parking lot. A question was raised as to the downfalls of this type of system and Steve Meersma said
that car strikes or snow plow strikes, if they contact the pipes, would cause some damage. The cleanout
device is steel and specified to extend from grade to 4-feet above grade and is durable. This saves
parking spaces and is safer. Steve Meersma stated that the Village requested that the canopy column
foundation be at existing parking grade.

Steve Meersma says that Sol Systems will operate the system, Dan O’Connor said that the lease was
signed some time ago and it will need to be reviewed. Eva Thaddeus asked about a large snowfall and
if the system could catch large, sliding snow piles. Steve Meersma says that the gutter has a snow
guard at the edge, a metal ridge with a gap at the bottom that is somewhat like adam. Geoff Haynes
would like to get a better sense of the system capacity and asks if it could handle a 2—3-inch rainfall.
Steve Meersma stated that they modeled a 1-year and a 5-year storm and the piping can handle a 5-
year storm. Geoff Haynes believes that this is an improvement. Steve Meersma states that this system
offers a capacity for stormwater that does not exist now.

Steve Krisky says that the landscape plan looks robust, but the fence that surrounds the battery
components says chain link fence and he would like to request that the applicant come up with more


attractive fencing. Dan O’Connor says that the Planning board already approved the plans, but the
fence is supposed to be black. Steve Meersma says that visual slats will be installed to buffer the view.

A question was raised because the applicant’s name and address listed on the original wetland activity
permit submitted in 2021 is different from the applicant's name address listed on the current application
submitted on March 2, 2023. Steve Meersma was not sure as to why the change but did confirm that
Sol Systems is based in Washington D.C., and they also have an LLC for this project.

Geoff Haynes also remarked that it looks like the application includes revisions to the layout of the
proposed elevated panels. Steve Meersma says that the orientation did not change, but the
manufacturer of the canopies and structures has changed and the locations have been modified a bit.

Rob Luntz asked about the number of parking spaces that will be lost to this project. Steve Meersma did
not know the exact number, but said that there are two areas under the canopies, he believes array #2
and array #7, where some electrical equipment is required. Steve Meersma believes that there have
been discussions with the Village as to exactly how many spots will be lost. Steve Krisky asked about a
notation on the plans that mentioned 289 parking spaces, and Steve Meersma explained that because
those spaces are at skewed angles, they will be restriped to make the rows more consistent.

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to refer this application to Water Control Commission for a
recommendation on the revised wetland permit and to call for a public hearing on the amended site plan
and amended wetland permit applications, seconded Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried4-0.

b) Boulos, John — 30 Piney Point Avenue (79.13-4-44) Amendment of minor site plan
approval for single-family house construction to modify certain aspects of the landscape,
architectural and site plans.

John Boulos was present in support of the application. Dan O’Connor reported that the applicant
requested to amend the site plan and eliminate some site plan requirements. The landscape plan was
modified due to the abundance of bamboo growing on the property. The site plan requirements that the
applicant would like to eliminate are the lattice work and the rock netting that was originally thought to be
needed for slope stabilization.

The applicant hired an engineer, Gregory Pillori of Pillori Associates who wrote a short letter stating that
he did not believe the rock netting was necessary. The Planning Board requested a more through
response from Pirelli Associates which was received. The updated letter was reviewed by Matt Korn,
from LaBella Associates on behalf of the Village and the Planning Board. Village Engineer Dan
O'Connor took part in a conference call with Gregory Pillori and Matt Korn and soil conditions at the site
were discussed. The engineers from both LaBella and Pillori submitted letters stating that the rock
netting was not necessary.

The planning board members discussed how to make the area as robust as it can be. The applicant
stated that it is currently all green. The plans specify native seed mix, meadow mix and New England
wetland plants. Eva Thaddeus suggested no mow mix which is specified for above the retaining wall.
Rob Luntz wants to ensure that what is on the plan is actually planted and requests assurance that there
would be oversite by the Village like an inspection to make sure that the landscaping conforms with the
landscape plan. Dan O’Connor referenced the planning board resolution from 2020 and stated that all
of the conditions from that resolution remain in effect. Grass seed and netting was put down but some
spots need to be redone due to erosion.

After the site visit, the planning board members were okay with the applicant not putting up the lattice
and accept the professional opinions regarding the rock netting. There was a question regarding the
stone veneer that was to go on the retaining wall because the wall does not conform to what was on the
plan. The planning board would like to see something done to improve the aesthetics of the parking
area. Rob Luntz states that the current state of the parking pads and retaining wall have a negative


impact on the neighborhood. The applicant had suggestions to improve this including adding stucco,
changing the colors. An idea was presented to add wood veneer, instead of stone veneer. Dan
O’Connor suggested that the applicant have his contractor do a mock up on a small portion of the wall
and the planning board members could go by to have a look.

It was decided that the planning board will wait to hear from the applicant when a mockup of the wood

veneer is in place in the carport area at which point, they will go out and take a look. Geoff Haynes
requested that we get some feedback from the landscape architect as to what exactly has been done.

c} Accessory Apartment/Accessory Dwelling Units
The Planning Board felt that they needed more time to look into this subject and Chairman Luntz made a

formal request to invite an expert who is versed on this subject to come in to meet with the Planning
Board.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Draft Minutes March 7th, 2023

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of March 7th, 2023, seconded by
Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0, with John Ghegan being absent.

5. ENGINEER’S REPORT
Regarding 1380 Albany Post Road, Dan O’Connor spoke to Kory Salomone who reported that they
needed some more time to get the documentation to support the fact that the easement was
extinguished.
Regarding 1360 Albany Post Road, Dan O’Connor will follow up with the owner.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:03 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board


Chairman
Robert Luntz
Members

John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Croton-on-Hudson New York Eva Thaddeus

Attorney

Planning Board Linda Whitehead

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building Village Engineer
One Van Wyck Street Daniel F O'Connor, P.E., CEO

Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.2501 Secretary
engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov Karen Stapleton

Village of

To: | Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

From: Chairman Luntz, Planning Board

Date: March 23, 2023

Re: | Recommendation on the Issuance of a Special Permit for Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC

At its regularly scheduled meeting on March 21*, 2023, the Planning Board reviewed an
application for a Special Permit for Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC at 1 Croton Point Avenue.

The Planning Board reviewed the following objectives and goals:
A) The accessibility of all proposed structures to fire and police protection:

There are fire hydrants near this property and fire and police vehicles can easily access the
property.

B) The compatibility of the location, size and character of the proposed use with the orderly
development of the zoning district in which it is located and with that of adjacent properties in
conformity with the zoning district applicable to such properties:

The property is located in the Light Industrial (LI) zoning district and the proposed rectification
use is an allowable special permit use in the LI district. The proposed business will occupy
about 750 square feet of space in the basement of the rear portion of the building. There will be
one 55-gallon drum of neutral grain spirits and approximately 50 cases of bottles with 10-15
cases full at any one time. Approximately 500-1000 cases will be produced this year with the
product delivered to liquor stores and bars with pickups twice a week with a small truck or SUV.
Mr. McCallen mentioned that a license from the Federal Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade
Bureau (TTB) was received and he is applying for a license from New York State.

C) The safety, convenience, and congruity with the normal traffic of the neighborhood and of the
pedestrian and vehicular traffic generated by the proposed use, taking into particular account
the location and size of such use, the nature and intensity of operations involved in or
conducted in connection therewith, its site layout and its relation to access streets:

Croton Point Avenue was just improved with traffic lights as part of a three-million-dollar
improvement project so the area is as safe as it is going to be. Additionally, the parking lot at
this property is getting very little use post pandemic.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov


D) The compatibility of the location and height of buildings, the location, nature and height of
walls and fences and the nature and extent of landscaping on the site with adjacent land and
buildings and their appropriate development.

The Planning Board did not think that this condition was relevant to the application.
E) The preservation of ecological or environmental assets of the site or adjacent lands.

The Planning Board does not believe that this application will have any effect on ecological or
environmental assets.

The Planning Board voted 4-0 to make a positive recommendation to the Board of Trustees for
the application for a special permit for Croton Hudson Distillery, LLC at 1 Croton Point Avenue.

Tel: 914-271-4783 www.crotononhudson-ny.gov engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov
