Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, March 26, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua B. Subin
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Slippen

1. Motion to enter into an Executive Session at 6:35pm to discuss matters of
personnel involving specific individuals and the proposed acquisition, sale or
lease of real property" was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
2. Motion was made by Trustee Simon to close the Executive Session at
6:56pm. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0
vote.
3. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
4. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 24254278-24254453. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$419,236.56
$40,425.13
$2,417.64
$46,985.59

5. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
a.

Motion to open a Public Hearing on the 2025-2026 Village Budget was
made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and
approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Treasurer Tucker presented the 2025-2026 Village Budget; to
view the Power Point presentation, you may click onto the following link:

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 2

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/803e446b0f6dbfd901906de4cec209df3169a7d5.pdf
To view the proposed 2025-26 detailed Budget, you may click onto the
following link:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/village-treasurer/pages/proposedbudget-fiscal-year-2025-2026
Village Manager Healy explained that the Tax Base Growth Factor is the
number that is calculated through the State through a complex formula,
but as we see new construction we should expect that number to rise
slowly over the next couple of years and hopefully that will factor into
allowing the Levy Limit to increase. Village Manager Healy also explained
that the exclusions are primarily related to Retirement System expenses
related to pensions and these are excluded from being calculated in the
Levy Limit.
Trustee Simon explained that by using our Fund Balance we are
comfortably within the margin recommended by generally accepted
accounting practices.
Mayor Pugh stated that with the exception of the 20/21 and 21/22
Budgets the Village has returned funds back to the Fund Balance.
COMMENTS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that it was
unnecessary to repave Oneida and Olcott Avenues, opposes plans to
repave Cleveland Drive, does not feel that we need a Deputy Treasurer,
believes that the Gouveia property is fine the way it is and objects to
spending any funds on that property, and expressed his concerns that in
the future we will be losing funding from the State and Federal
government.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, thanked Treasurer
Tucker for his service and wished him well on his new job, commended
the Village Board on the 25/26 Budget, the Board and Administration
have done a good job with our finances and debt reduction, asked where
the income from the solar panels are reflected in the Budget,
recommended not moving the Recreation Department to Gouveia,

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 3

objects to the sale of Village property and emphasized that this should be
put up for a referendum.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
COMMENTS:
Village Manager Healy advised that the Solar Canopy Revenue is included
in the Non-Tax Revenues, it is budgeted at $485,759 which is the full
amount that was agreed upon, and we have been receiving payments
monthly since December.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Village is not using the sale of Village
property to balance the Budget, we are either adding it to the Reserves
or to fund a Capital Program to avoid borrowing.
Mayor Pugh
emphasized that by selling Village property we put that property back on
the Tax Roll which adds to our tax base.
Village Attorney Stubin advised that the sale of Village property does not
require a Referendum.
b. Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 3 of
2025 to amend Chapter 116, Environmental Review, of the
Village Code to update the list of additional Type II actions was
made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi
and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Village Attorney Stubin stated that under New York State Law, any act
is reviewed under the State Environmental Quality Review Act
(SEQRA), and Type II lists are areas where no further compliance is
needed, the Village is allowed to amend their own list, and we are
taking areas that do not affect the environment and including them in
our Type II list, the balance of the Local Law is just reshuffling preexisting Type II lists into one consolidated list so that it is easier to
find when you are looking at the Code.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
believes there is an error in the law and believes that the Village Board
should be greater than 4,000 square feet, and the Planning Board
should be given smaller projects of less than 4,000 square feet. Mr.

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 4

Eisinger stated that he thought the intent was that the Village was
going to retain Special Permitting for larger projects and the Planning
Board would review smaller projects.
Mayor Pugh stated that this Local Law is not about reassigning Special
Permits to the Planning Board, but rather what is considered a Type II
Action for SEQRA purposes, the Village Board has Special Permit
authority and the Planning Board has Site Plan Approval authority and
this will have to be updated if we reassign some of that responsibility
to the Planning Board.
6. LWRP Consistency Review and EAF Part II Review for Local Law Introductory
No. 3 of 2025 amending Chapter 116, Environmental Review of the Village
Code to update the list of additional Type II Action.
No, or
small
impact
may
occur
1. Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan
or zoning Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing
community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics
that caused the establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing
level of traffic or affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking
or walkway? .

√

6.

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails
to incorporate reasonably available energy conservation or renewable
energy opportunities?

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?
b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic,
archaeological, architectural or aesthetic resources?

√
√
√
√

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 5

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources
(e.g., wetlands, waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion,
flooding or drainage problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or
human health?

√

7. PDEVELOPMENT POLICIES
o
l
i
c
y
Restore,
revitalize,
and
redevelop
1
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses.
Encourage integrated development of
1A
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro-North train
station, while facilitating public access to
the bay area and recreational use.
Encourage restoration of deteriorating
1B
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Encourage the appropriate re-use of the
1C
old sewage treatment plant site at the
intersection of Route 9A and Municipal
Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
2
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters.
Encourage water-enhanced commercial
2A
uses where such uses complement water
dependent uses and do not result in
displacement of such uses.
Further develop the State’s existing major
3
ports of Albany, Buffalo, New York,
Ogdensburg and Oswego as centers of
commerce and industry, and encourage
the siting, in these port areas, including
those under the jurisdiction of State public
authorities, of land use and development
which is essential to, or in support of,
waterborne transportation of cargo and
people.
Strengthen the economic base of smaller
4
harbor areas by encouraging the
development and enhancement of those
traditional uses and activities which have

Applicable
Yes/No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 6

5

5A

6
6A

7

7A

7B

7C

7D

provided such areas with their unique
maritime identity.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Coastal Fish and Wildlife
Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant
Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be
protected and improved for conservation,
economic, aesthetic, recreational, and
other public uses and values. Its
resources shall be protected from the
threat
of
pollution,
misuse,
and
mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat and
the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of or
allowed to drain in, or on land within, the
area of influence in the significant fish and
wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat
or Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted
within the area of influence of the habitat
unless best available technology is used
to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and

No

No

Yes
No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 7

7E

7F

7G

7H

8

9

9A

9B

10

Wildlife Habitats and shorelands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of
any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
site
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively managed so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact to the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion
or flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity in the Croton River and Hudson
River spawning areas shall be timed so
that spawning of anadromous fish species
and shellfish will not be adversely
affected.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause significant degradation of water
quality or impact identified significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Habitat-related policies identified in the
Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed
Conservation Action Plan will be
considered in actions proposed for these
areas (see Appendix C).
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous waste and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub-lethal or lethal
effects on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Village
owned land adjacent to the railroad
parking lot, at Croton Point Park, at
Senasqua and Croton Landing Parks,
along the Croton River, and at the Croton
Yacht Club. Efforts should be made to
increase opportunities for public access
and enjoyment in these areas.
Encourage
passive
recreational
enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated
significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the
Audubon Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle
Arboretum, Gouveia Park and on other
public or private lands within the Village
where wildlife habitats are located, as well
as the protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 8

11

12

12A

13

14

15

16

shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new, or improvement of
existing onshore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
State's seafood products, maintaining
adequate
stocks
and
expanding
aquaculture facilities.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion.
Activities or development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and
bluffs.
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier
to Croton Bay from activities or
development that would increase erosion
of or flooding of the point.
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at
least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or
assured maintenance or replacement
programs.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at
other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which
supply beach materials to land adjacent to
such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase
in erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
able to function, or existing development;
and only where the public benefits
outweigh the long term monetary and

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 9

17

17A

18

19
19A

19B

19C

19D

20

21

21A

other costs including the potential for
increasing erosion and adverse effects on
natural protective features.
Non-structural measures to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion shall be used
whenever possible.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes inland shall be of
a
non-structural
nature,
wherever
possible, to minimize the visual impact of
structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the State
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to
the safeguards which the State has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities
Encourage the linkage of open space from
upland areas to and along the Hudson
and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or
walkway system.
Increase public access to areas that offer
physical and visual connections to the
Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the improvement of public
transportation, when feasible, where water
dependent
and
water-enhanced
recreation activities are located.
Improve and maintain access to Croton
River and Bay at the Village-owned Echo
Canoe Launch south of the Village
parking lots at the Croton-Harmon Station
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. 19
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast.
Boating and fishing activities should be
encouraged provided that they do not
restrict other water-related recreational
opportunities and are undertaken in a
manner compatible with existing water-

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 10

22

23

24

25

25A

26
27

28

29

dependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to
the shore will provide for water-related
recreation whenever such use is
compatible with reasonably anticipated
demand for such activities and is
compatible with the primary purpose of
the development.
HISTORIC AND SCENIC QUALITY
POLICIES
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, areas or sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources
of statewide significance. (The nearest
scenic area of statewide significance
(SASS) is the Bear Mountain Park subunit
of the Hudson Highlands SASS which is
north of the Village)
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified
as
being
of
statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Establish and protect identified public
viewsheds of the Hudson River,
including but not limited to the public
views of the Hudson River from the
western shoreline of the Village, and of
the Croton River and Gorge.
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Conserve and protect agricultural lands in
the State’s coastal area.
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
interfere
with
the
production
of
hydroelectric power, damage significant
coastal fish and wildlife and their habitats,
or increase shoreline erosion or flooding..
The development of offshore uses and
resources, including renewable energy
resources, shall accommodate New
York’s long-standing ocean and Great
Lakes industries, such as commercial and
recreational
fishing
and
maritime
commerce, and the ecological functions of

No

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 11

30

30A

31

32

33

33A

34

34A
35

36

habitats important to New York.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited
to,
toxic
and
hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to State and National water
quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose of any
regulated materials in coastal waters until
all such regulated materials have been
tested by the State for conformance with
water quality standards.
State coastal area policies and
management objectives of approved local
waterfront revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal water
classifications and while modifying water
quality standards; however, those waters
already overburdened with contaminants
will be recognized as being a
development constraint.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used
to ensure the control of stormwater runoff
and combined sewer overflows draining
into coastal waters.
The flow of stormwater discharge shall be
controlled to limit the flow of pollutants
from street, and parking areas, etc.
directly into the rivers and water bodies.
Discharge of waste materials into coastal
waters from vessels subject to State
jurisdiction will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply
areas..
Moored structures or marine vessels shall
not discharge ballast water or other
releases into the waterway.
Dredging and filling in coastal waters and
disposal of dredged material will be
undertaken in a manner that meets
existing State permit requirements, and
protects significant fish and wildlife
habitats, scenic resources, natural
protective features, important agricultural
lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 12

37

37A

38

39

40

41
42

43

44
44A

materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at least minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these
spills occur.
Best management practices will be
utilized to minimize the non-point
discharge of excess nutrients, organics
and eroded soils into coastal waters.
Control of the development of hilltops and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid waste, particularly
hazardous waste, within coastal areas will
be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to State water quality standards..
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or State air
quality standards to be violated.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the State reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant
amounts
of
acid
rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
WETLAND POLICY
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 13

8. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none.
9. PUBLIC COMMENT - AGENDA ITEMS
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked for a
clarification of the “Data Sheet” that was sent out regarding moving the
Assessing functions to the Town of Cortlandt, when he looked at the
numbers it appeared that the Tax Levy was being reduced by $132,000.
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he does
not understand why we need to have two Treasurers and does not support
moving the Assessing functions to the Town of Cortlandt and wants to keep it
local.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the selection
process for Maple Commons should have been open to the public, the Tree
Law should apply to the Village as well as the State of New York and every
other public entity that runs through the Village of Croton, Con-Edison is a
publicly regulated utility and everything they do has to pass some State
Regulator, we should have kept nuclear power which is the greenest power
other than water power.
Resolution Approving the Consent Agenda
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approved the Consent Agenda.
Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
10.CONSENT AGENDA:
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Email from Nancy W. Perry, Ph.D., Executive Director of the New York
Planning Federation, announcing Adam Decker and Nance Shatzkin as
recipients of the 2024 Levine Community Service Award.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/ce9703ea744bac083566cf7e63d3d0af7315dda0.pdf
2. Email from Christine Drago, Croton-Harmon School District Athletic
Director, requesting permission to hang banners for senior softball players
at Firefighters Memorial Field.

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 14

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/5dd256a24c5c1ad893faec593283e47316ca4883.pdf
3. Letter from Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker submitting his resignation,
effective at the close of business on April 4, 2025.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/ac3a978e8919e46c12270d55c2fe557d5f262174.pdf
4. Letter from the Justice Court Assistance Program announcing that the
Village has been awarded a grant in the amount of $2,442.56 for a
replacement metal detector.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/0afb7c26f8d9c6b2614459a196109f7c387db6c3.pdf
5. Letter from Paul Rush, Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of Water Supply
for New York City, regarding the Hydrilla Treatment Project at the New
Croton Reservoir.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/94f33fd165eab482e796aa719c2f9c27bed42623.pdf
6. Letter from the Arbor Day Foundation certifying the Village of Crotonon-Hudson as a 2024 Tree City USA.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/3ae5ed5fff04397ca1b1e2a028348b428af0c9f1.pdf
7. Invitation to the Town of Cortlandt National Vietnam War Veterans Day
Ceremony, which is to take place on March 29, 2025, at noon at the
Harmon Firehouse.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/2ecf86849604e32983f39d20a86f4d1de89b3749.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #56-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 15

WHEREAS the Volunteer Fire Department Length of Service Award Program was
approved by referendum in 2003, and
WHEREAS Article 11-A of the New York State General Municipal Law requires that
the list of Fire Department members indicate those who earned a year of service
credit during the calendar year, those that did not earn a year of credit, and those
who waived participation must be certified under oath by the Fire Department, and
WHEREAS once certified, this list must be approved by the Village Board and posted
for 30 days,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
approves the list for 2024 and authorizes its posting for 30 days.
Resolution #57-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees issued a special permit to WBP
Development LLC for the construction of a 100-unit multifamily development at 1
Croton Point Avenue on December 18, 2024, and
WHEREAS WBP Development LLC has continued to develop their plans as they go
before the Village Planning Board for site plan approval, and
WHEREAS WBP Development LLC has now filed an application with the Westchester
County Dept. of Health in order to connect to the sanitary sewer main under Croton
Point Avenue, and
WHEREAS Westchester County is requiring the Village to sign off on the application
as the present landowner of the parcel,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorize the Village Manager to execute the letter of authorization for the
Westchester County Dept. of Health and any future paperwork related to this
application.
Resolution #58-2025

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 16

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton-Harmon Union-Free School District has advised the Village
that its school buildings, the customary location for the Recreation Department’s
Summer Day Camp program, will not be available this summer for use, and
WHEREAS Holy Name of Mary Church, located at 114 Grand Street, has agreed to
grant a license for the use of their premises for the Village's summer day camp
program for the period beginning July 1, 2025, through August 8, 2025, for a total
payment of $5,800, and
WHEREAS Holy Name of Mary has provided a license agreement delineating the
terms and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the license agreement with Holy Name of
Mary Church for use of their premises for the Village’s summer day camp program.
Resolution #59-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to provide preventive,
rehabilitative, and treatment services to its employees through an Employee
Assistance Program (EAP), and
WHEREAS Westchester County, through its Department of Community Mental
Health, offers an EAP under the provisions of Articles 25 and 41 of the New York
State Mental Hygiene Law, which includes various support services such as program
consultation, staff development, program administration, maintenance, and client
evaluation and referral, and
WHEREAS on June 26, 2024, the Village Board adopted Resolution 138-2024 to join
the Westchester County EAP through December 31, 2024, and
WHEREAS Westchester County has provided a new intermunicipal agreement
continuing the EAP through December 31, 2029, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 17

WHEREAS the total cost of these services is calculated based on the number of
employees, resulting in a fee of $45 per employee per year, prorated for the year
2025 to $37.50 per employee, totaling $2,737.50 for the year 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
sign the intermunicipal agreement with Westchester County for the provision of
Employee Assistance Program services for the period starting March 10, 2025, and
ending on December 31, 2029.
Resolution #60-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton Business Council is desirous of holding a “Wild West
Hoedown” festival, an event which expects to have attendance of two thousand
attendees, on a Village street, specifically Grand Street between Old Post Road
South and Mount Airy Road, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has provided the Croton Business
Council with a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that delineates the respective
rights and obligations of the parties and defines their relationship for the “Wild West
Hoedown” event,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Memorandum of Understanding with
the Croton Business Council related to the “Wild West Hoedown” event.
Resolution #61-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has an intermunicipal agreement with
the Town of Cortlandt for organic recycling, and
WHEREAS the Town of Cortlandt invoices the Village quarterly for said services, and
WHEREAS the fees are anticipated to exceed the Fiscal Year 2025 adopted budget
in the amount of $1,931.72,

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 18

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to
make the following budget transfer in the 2024-2025 General Fund budget:
Increase:
A8090.4000-Recycling Contractual

$1,931.72

Decrease:
A1990.4000-Contingency Contractual

$1,931.72

c. Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of the Regular Meeting held
on March 12, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on March 19,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
11.PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #62-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is considering the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 14 of 2024, a local law to add Chapter 8, Assessments, Real
Property Tax, to the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to consolidate the
Village’s assessment unit with the Town of Cortlandt, and
WHEREAS New York State law authorizes villages to consolidate their assessment
status and have towns provide this service, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been discussing this possibility since
at least 2012, and
WHEREAS consolidating the Village’s Assessment Roll with the Town would provide
a financial savings to the Village and provide residents with one assessed valuation
for the entirety of their tax bill, as opposed to the current system of one valuation
for Village taxes and one valuation for town/county/school taxes, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 19

WHEREAS the Village previously held a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory
No. 14 of 2024 on November 20, 2024, and
WHEREAS a second Public Hearing was opened and closed on March 12, 2025, and
WHEREAS, the Village Board had additional discussion on this local law at their
work session on March 19, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 14 of 2024 to add Chapter 8, Assessments, Real
Property Tax, to the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to consolidate the
Village’s assessment unit with the Town of Cortlandt, which upon adoption will
become Local Law No. 5 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy read his memo addressing comments and concerns that
have taken place since the public hearing:
During the Village’s Grievance Day held last month, four residential grievances were
received. The Board of Assessment Review agreed with one of the grievances and approved
a reduction. During the Town’s last Grievance Day in June 2024, 17 residential grievances
were received from Village residents (more than four times as many). The Town Board of
Assessment Review denied all the residential grievances it received. Eight of the 17
grievances filed small claims assessment review (SCAR) cases; six saw no change and two
received reductions. I have performed spot checks on 20 properties and compared the
property cards in the Village and the property cards in the Town. It appears that two of
those 20 properties had a field inspection conducted by the Town which had raised its value.
An additional three of those 20 properties appear to have been raised based off real estate
listings (e.g., a “virtual” field inspection). This virtual inspection, much like a field
inspection, would compare the property card to the photos posted on the listing to see if
there are things such as more bathrooms, a finished basement, etc. The foot traffic to the
Village Assessor’s office is low. During the busy months (November, December and
January), the office sees about 10 in-person visits. During the other nine months of the
year, in-person visits drop to about two per month. Should the Village Board adopt this local
law and consolidate assessment functions, the Village plans to do an extensive outreach
campaign to all property owners who will potentially see their taxes raised. This outreach
will include a letter by U.S. Mail, emails, a dedicated page on the Village website, social
media postings and an ad in the Gazette. Finally, the Town Assessor and I have tentatively
scheduled an additional webinar for April 29 at 7 p.m. for Village residents to ask questions
about the Town’s Grievance Day procedures and other questions they may have about the
assessment process. Should the Village Board adopt this local law, registration information
for the webinar will be shared through the regular Village communication channels.

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 20

Trustee Simon stated that we have learned that disparities between the Town
Assessment and the Village Assessment are based on judgments made decades ago
and sometimes through a forensic process we can derive the reasons for these
differences but sometimes we cannot, we also found that once these distinctions
between Assessments are made, they are rarely unmade and for many years Tom
Waitkins was the Assessor for both the Town of Cortlandt and the Village of Croton
and he was not able to reconcile these differences in the years that he had the
power to do so, some people who live in comparable homes may pay widely
different property tax rates because one home may be newer than another.
Trustee Simon stated that he is inclined to support shared services when it makes
sense, right now seventy-five percent of everyone’s tax bill is for Town, County,
School, and Library, the Town Assessor’s office is properly staffed with professionals
that work there Monday through Friday, as opposed to our Village Assessor who is
only available one day a week. Trustee Simon stated that we will have a massive
outreach to everyone on how the consolidation process will work, the Town or
Cortlandt will participate with an online Webinar on April 29th, we are also working
with the Town to allow residents to pay their taxes in two increments if they wish to
do so, and if there are other initiatives to take that will ease the transition the
Board will consider those as well.
Trustee Nicholson stated that when we discussed this back in December she
indicated that we needed to be as transparent as possible to the public and she
believes we have done an excellent job of that, we have given everyone a
comprehensive list of the numbers, we have hosted webinars and communicated
with the public. Trustee Nicholson stated that what we have here are situations
that may have happened decades ago and as the Village Manager was doing his
research, he unearthed several challenges. Trustee Nicholson stated that it is very
unfortunate to those that will see their taxes rise, but this is a time that we have to
make a hard decision and do what is right for the majority of the Village. Trustee
Nicholson stated that she believes we will get better service from the Town of
Cortlandt and hopefully we will not see these discrepancies in the future.
Trustee Politi stated that her taxes will rise significantly, but believes that at the
end of the day, this is the fairest way to do it, you cannot compare a one day a
week Assessor to a team of full-time staff doing this work.
Trustee Slippen stated that she had some concerns about this from the beginning,
partly because roughly half of our residents will be experiencing an increase in the
taxes they are currently paying, and partly because she had a challenging time
contacting the Town Assessor, but we have been able to get a lot of the answers

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 21

that we needed, all Village residents will be able to pay their taxes twice a year and
we are hopeful that this reduces the burden somewhat, as a Trustee she did not
love the idea of sitting as the “Board of Assessment Review”, in the Town of
Cortlandt there is a Board that has expertise in real estate and other relevant areas
who will be making these decisions on Grievance Day, the Town of Cortlandt has
agreed to make a space for a Village resident to sit on that Board so we will some
representation from Croton. Trustee Slippen stated that this is a fully staffed office
with knowledgeable people who will serve the residents better.
Mayor Pugh thanked his colleagues for their thoughtful comments this evening and
their constructive contributions throughout this process, we have uncovered some
important pieces of information and we are pleased that we were able to negotiate
a partial payment system and based on comments by the Board, there is a reason
why seventy percent of Villages in New York State have merged their Assessing
functions with their Towns, the Village is currently paying more for worse service,
paying more for a system that is consistently not catching improvements and
therefore not assessing properties fairly, and worst of all, setting up a ton of
perverse incentives to not file for permits or close out permits all of which are in
violation of the health and safety of our community, we should be encouraging
compliance with the laws whenever possible rather than rewarding evasions.
Village Attorney Subin stated that the following are grounds in which someone can
grieve their property taxes: Unequal assessment, where a property is assessed at a
higher rate than other properties in the area; excessive assessment, indicating a
valuation higher than the property’s true market value, Unlawful assessment,
where a property is taxed based on incorrect or illegal criteria, and
misclassification, which occurs when a property is wrongly categorized under a tax
class that leads to a higher tax burden. Village Attorney Subin explained the
“three-year freeze”, if someone wins on their challenge, over the next three years
the property would not be able to be increased past that assessment.
Village Manager Healy advised that this law is subject to a Permissive Referendum
and the number of required signatures are based off the number of voters that
were on the Rolls at the last Village General Election, we had 5,900 registered
voters at that time and for a Petition to be successful, it would need 1,180
signatures.
Mayor Pugh stated that residents have plenty of time to prepare to grieve their
taxes because the Town’s Tentative Roll is published on June 1st, we are also having

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 22

an information session well in advance so residents can familiarize themselves with
the Town’s system of Assessment.
Resolution 63-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on March 14, 2025, Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker submitted his letter
of resignation to the Village Board of Trustees effective April 4, 2025, and
WHEREAS Deputy Village Treasurer Genette Toone has served in that position since
2005, and has proven herself to be knowledgeable in the field of governmental
accounting, generally, and the policies and procedures of the Village of Croton-onHudson, specifically, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees desires to promote Ms. Toone to the
position of Village Treasurer effective April 5, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
appoints Genette Toone to the position of Village Treasurer effective April 5, 2025,
at an annual salary of $131,027.
Resolution #64-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS on March 14, 2025, Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker submitted his letter
of resignation to the Village Board of Trustees effective April 4, 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has appointed Deputy Village Treasurer
Genette Toone to the position of Village Treasurer effective April 5, 2025, and
WHEREAS Rachel Sibrizzi is currently in the competitive class title of Deputy Village
Treasurer for the Village, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees desires to appoint Ms. Sibrizzi to the
exempt class title of Deputy Village Treasurer,

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 23

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
appoints Rachel Sibrizzi to the position of Deputy Village Treasurer (exempt)
effective April 5, 2025, at an annual salary of $97,560.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy emphasized that the head count for the Finance Department
is not changing only some of the titles, our Auditors have made it extremely clear
of the importance of the separation of duties and we are following those guidelines.
Trustee Simon reminded everyone that the Treasurer’s office manages a $23
million-dollar operating budget, as well as a Capital Plan and the management of
our debt and the New York State Comptroller, Tom DiNapoli, emphasizes that
municipalities must make sure that they have the appropriate staff to do this job
and he believes if we ever put forth a proposal to not have a Deputy Treasurer, the
State, County and our Auditors would be very concerned and he is very glad that
we are properly staffed for our needs
Resolution #65-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has introduced the practice of
establishing Annual Legislative Priorities to streamline responses to legislative
proposals affecting the Village and optimize the allocation of limited advocacy
resources, and
WHEREAS a document outlining the Village’s Legislative Program and Project
Priorities for 2025 has been drafted,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson adopts
and approves the 2025 Legislative Program and Project Priorities attached and
incorporated herein by this reference, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Clerk is hereby directed to send this
resolution and legislative packet to the federal, state and county legislators
representing the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
DISCUSSION:

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 24

As requested by Trustee Slippen, the Board went over the Legislative Priorities
document.
To hear the discussion, you may log onto the following.
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1030 (section 154.07).
Resolution #66-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson purchased the property at 435 Yorktown
Road to serve as the Village’s Department of Public Works garage in 2017, and
WHEREAS the building has been serviced by an oil-fired boiler, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees previously approved a capital project to
replace the oil tank for the boiler at the garage, and
WHEREAS other necessary work at the garage facility delayed the replacement
project, and
WHEREAS the boiler at the garage has experienced significant issues this winter,
including a backfiring incident on January 5, 2025, which required a response from
area fire departments, and
WHEREAS on March 21, 2025, the boiler stopped working completely and has not
been fully operable since that time, and
WHEREAS DPW has received a price estimate for the replacement of the oil-fired
boiler with a propane-fueled boiler in the amount of $125,500, and
WHEREAS General Municipal Law Section 103(4) allows for the Village Board to let
a contract without public bidding where necessary due to a public emergency
arising out of an unforeseen occurrence or condition, and
WHEREAS the Superintendent of Public Works has recommended that the Village
proceed with this work on an emergency basis,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby declares the
replacement of the boiler at the Department of Public Works garage to be an
emergency, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 25

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED the Village Manager is authorized to accept the proposal
from HVAC Now, Inc., of Poughkeepsie, New York, in the amount of $125,500 to
complete this work, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to transfer
$8,514.05 from A1990.4000 (Contingency) and $8,514.05 from T94002 (Escrow –
Community Solar) to A1640.2000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that this work will be charged as follows:
H1640.2000.18344 (Update Oil Tank):
A1640.2000 (Garage – Equipment):
F8397.2000 (Water Capital Projects - Equipment)
G8997.2000 (Sewers – Equipment):

$102,795.86
$17,028.10
$4,086.75
$1,589.29

12.PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Hunter Szkodzinski, Life Scout, Troop 28, stated that he is working on his
final Merit Badge to reach Eagle Scout, his project is “Citizenship in the
Community” that requires him to ask questions to an elected official that are
important to the community. Mr. Szkodzinski stated that listening to
comments made this evening, it appears that Zoning seems to be an
important issue for Croton, as liaisons to the Planning Board, Mr. Szkodzinski
directed questions to Trustee Simon and Trustee Nicholson asking them to
briefly explain the Village’s Zoning policy, specifically in the last few years
and how it differs from before. Mr. Szkodzinski stated that it appears that
some residents are concerned about development and asked how these
concerns are taken into consideration, and how young people can get their
opinions known on these issues.
Trustee Simon stated that Zoning is one of the most important functions that
any local government has, and we have used zoning as a way to help the
Village adapt for the future, and we have asked ourselves what the Village
will be like in the years ahead and what are those opportunities. Trustee
Simon referred to the recent Maple Commons project, how that was
essentially an abandoned and unused piece of property that became public
land in the 1990’s and once the Village took hold of that land, it took about
ten years to begin the process, and as various options were analyzed, one of
the strong possibilities became multi-family housing which required a Zoning
change. Trustee Simon stated that we are now dealing with a piece of Village
owned property at 1 Croton Point Avenue that was once used as an overflow

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 26

parking lot for train station parking. The Village is looking at a Transit
Oriented Development (TOD), and research has found that building housing
opportunities closer to your transportation resources will benefit the entire
community, we subsequently hired outside Planners to work with us who
ultimately recommended some Zoning changes that would accommodate
additional housing.
Trustee Nicholson, in response to Mr. Szkodzinski’s questions on how young
adults can get involved, stated that we have opportunities on our Police
Advisory Council, and Conservation Advisory Committee for students, she
additionally suggested getting involved in the Student Faculty Congress at
Croton High School. Trustee Nicholson stated that Zoning is a very long
process, there are a lot of laws that come from the State that dictate and
prescribe the steps we need to go through, and before we make any changes
our Planning Board, Zoning Board, and Water Control Commission are
involved, as well as feedback from the community and decisions are made in
a very thoughtful prescribed way. Trustee Nicholson gave an overview of the
Gateway District and how that came to pass.
Trustee Politi advised that at our recent IDEA Committee meeting a couple of
High School students were in attendance, and encouraged Mr. Szkodzinski, if
he is interested in getting more involved with Village government, the IDEA
Committee would be a great committee to be involved in.
Trustee Slippen advised that there is a huge push in the Town of Cortlandt to
get High School students involved and they have created a Youth Task Force
with student representatives from Lakeland High School, Hendrick Hudson
High School and Croton High School and encouraged him to reach out to the
Town Board.
To hear additional comments made by the Trustees in response to Mr.
Szkodzinski’s questions, you may log onto the Village Website as follows and
click on Reports: https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1030
(section 2.4419).
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
concerned about the $500,000 that is being taken out of the Gouveia
endowment, and suggested that we wait until the grant comes through. Mr.
Eisinger stated that he still believes that the height of the proposed building
at 1 Croton Point Avenue is too high and would like the Board and developer
to reconsider the size.

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 27

Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, believes that consolidating
the Assessing function was not investigated thoroughly and he is concerned
that the Village will lose all of its authority since the Assessor is an employee
of the Town, he also believes that any of the savings are going to be used to
hire additional staff that will be making more inspections.
Mr. Riely
addressed issues pertaining to abortion, to hear Mr. Riely’s comments you
may log onto the Village’s website, and view comments under public
comments on non-agenda issues.
,
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the
County is requiring more electric charging stations on the LOT A property,
and asked if they should require a Fire Suppression System to deal with the
massive fire potential, objects to renaming Gouveia Park, as well as putting
on a second story, asked that the dog ordinance be enforced, and requested
that a Residential Parking Permit System be instituted on Young, Benedict
and Oneida Avenues so residents can park in front of their homes.
13.REPORTS:
Trustee Slippen advised that this past Friday a ceremony was held re-naming
the Gouveia house for past Trustee Ann Gallelli who was a visionary not only
on this project but on many other projects in Croton and is pleased that we
were able to honor her this way. Trustee Slippen emphasized that the
building on the Gouveia property already has a second floor, but it is not ADA
compliant and we want all residents of Croton to be able to use this facility.
Trustee Slippen stated that she is saddened and extremely concerned about
the negative comments that are being made on Facebook regarding our new
residents at Maple Commons. Trustee Slippen thanked Treasurer Tucker for
his service to Croton, he will be missed and wished him well on his new job.
Trustee Politi thanked the School District, Neighbors Link, the IDEA
Committee, Black Cow and our Police Department for a very robust meeting
discussing immigration and diversity issues, the IDEA Committee held a
meeting this past Friday planning for their June activities, expressed her
concerns about some of the comments on Facebook regarding our new
residents at Maple Commons, and hopes that those posting these inaccurate
comments take into consideration all the young children and families that are
living there. Trustee Politi addressed the comments made regarding abortion
and may be heard by logging onto the meeting under Reports:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1030 (section 2:44.19)

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 28

Trustee Nicholson stated that it was a pleasure working with Treasurer
Tucker and wished him the best of luck in his new job, thanked the Croton
Police Department for their Public Service Address to the community and she
is very sad that there has been some negative remarks made of our Police
Department in response to the their Public Service Address, the Recreation
Advisory Committee held a walk-through at Duck Pond, this Saturday a
Vietnam Memorial ceremony will be held at Harmon Engine at 12pm and
encouraged everyone to check the Croton calendar for upcoming events.
Trustee Simon advised that our train station solar array project was
highlighted at the March 13th Municipal Officials meeting, March 15th a ribbon
cutting was held for Croton Children and Family Counseling, March 17 he and
the Mayor attended the Boy Scout Arrow of Light Ceremony, March 19th sat
in on a call with Congressman Michael Lawler and was pleased to hear that
Congressman Lawler is in support of “Energy Tax Credits”, March 20th the
Bicycle Pedestrian Committee met and talked about sidewalk gaps, March
21st Shoprite awarded several employees with the Hunger Fighting award for
their involvement with fighting hunger initiatives, March 22nd the Bennett
Conservatory of Music celebrated its 75th anniversary, last night he attended
the Fire Council meeting with Village Manager Healy where we gave them an
overview of our Budget, on April 26th Drug Take Back Day will be held,
congratulated Nance Shatzkin and Adam Decker on receiving the Levine
Community Service Award from the New York Planning Federation, and
congratulated Village Treasurer Dan Tucker on his new job.
Village Attorney Subin stated that as the Village Attorney for the Village of
Briarcliff Manor the Village of Briarcliff Manor has nothing on their agenda to
take back the Assessing function, he also emphasized that he does not
believe the Town of Cortlandt is going to go to one hundred percent
assessing anytime soon and if that were ever the case in the future, the
Village Board could reevaluate their options.
Mayor Pugh stated that the speculation regarding the tenants at Maple
Commons is truly unfortunate, the individuals that were arrested were not
residents of Maple Commons and he hopes that this is an opportunity for
self-reflection and mutual respect. Mayor Pugh stated that it is very useful
for everyone to look at the Capital Plan Narrative for Gouveia Park and
reminded everyone that the building is already two stories, the endowment
can only be used for the Gouveia property, and these funds are going to be
used for the installation of utilities, connection to the sanitary sewer,

Village Board of Trustees
March 26, 2025
Page 29

improvements to the parking area and drainage. Mayor Pugh addressed
comments made about instituting a Residential Parking Permit System on
Young Avenue; the Village did obtain approval for Young Avenue, but
through an extensive survey they found that residents living in the southern
half of Young Avenue were not in favor and did not support this initiative.
Mayor Pugh added that every house in that particular area has off-street
parking, so the horrible situation that is being shared at these meetings is
not the perception of the majority of the residents on that street.
Mayor Pugh stated that it was a pleasure working with Treasurer Tucker, this
Tentative Budget is a real triumph with the lowest tax increase proposed
compared to other comparable Villages as well as continuing to reduce our
debt, which is a real accomplishment.
Village Manager Healy stated that we have a very expansive repaving plan
for our streets, they are reviewed by our professional Engineer who makes
those decisions and he will continue to rely on the expertise of our
professional staff .
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the meeting was made by Trustee Politi. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Meeting adjourned at
10:36pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

