Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, held on
Wednesday, January 22, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua B. Subin
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi

The following officials were absent:
Trustee Slippen
1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 24252987-24253211. The Motion was seconded by Trustee Politi
and approved with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$265,222.59
$19,658.66
$1,578.28
$151,269.89

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS
A motion to open a Public Hearing to consider Local Law Introductory No. 12 of
2024 to amend the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to update various
provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code was made by Trustee
Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy gave an overview of the proposed changes to Chapter 230
as follows:
Amend the definition of a building to include garages and sheds; clarify how the
height of an accessory cottage should be measured; amend the definition of
habitable floor area to delete utility rooms from being included and change heater
rooms to utility rooms in areas excluded; amend the boarding/rooming house
definition in RB district to lower it from three persons to one person; update the

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 2

definition of trailer and add a definition for the term “manufactured home”; clarify
that a manufactured home affixed to a permanent foundation should be considered
a one-family dwelling under the Zoning Code; clarify that a manufactured home is
required to obtain minor site plan approval.
Comments:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if there are currently
standards or regulations regarding a person living in your home and paying for room and
board? Mr. Mamone stated that he objects to the Village imposing this on homeowner’s
peace and enjoyment of their property.
Sherry Horowitz, 119 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson, asked why this is being changed
from three boarders to one boarder, and does not see anything in the law about
bathroom privileges and kitchen privileges.
There being no further comments to come before the Board a motion to close the Public
Hearing was made by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson. Motion was
approved with a 4-0 vote.
Mayor Pugh stated that this law is about safety to ensure that boarders have a safe place
to live, it distinguishes a boarding situation from an accessory dwelling unit, and it is why
it gets detailed as it relates to the separation of independent cooking facilities and
emphasizes that a homeowner having a boarder would have to comply with the health
code with respect to bathrooms.
Village Manager Healy explained that as the code is currently written, you are only
allowed one boarder throughout the entire Village except in the RB District, this law
makes it uniform throughout the Village.
Trustee Simon stated that once you are offering your home to a boarder, you are in
effect becoming a landlord and this has to be regulated with respect to safety standards.
Mayor Pugh asked Village Attorney Subin how a multiple roommate situation would work
if you had a single-family renting your home, and they were renting it to three unrelated
adults.
Village Attorney Subin stated that if you are renting your house to a family, and that
renter decided to bring in a boarder that would probably violate their lease.
Trustee Politi said that if you have three college students renting your house and they all
have a lease, then no one would be a boarder.

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 3

Village Manager Healy stated that this would fall under the category of a “non-traditional
family” as long as they eat their meals together and split the bills.
4. LWRP CONSISTENCY REVIEW AND EAG PART II REVIEW FOR LOCAL LAW
INTRODUCTORY NO. 12 OF 2024
Memo from the Waterfront Advisory Committee:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202411/a05eef61e8a679bd017c36cc523b37209f7632f3.pdf
EAG PART II FOR LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 12 OF 2024
No, or
small
impact
may
occur
1. Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan
or zoning Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing
community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics
that caused the establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing
level of traffic or affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking
or walkway? .

√

6.

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails
to incorporate reasonably available energy conservation or renewable
energy opportunities?

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?
b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?

√
√
√

8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic,
archaeological, architectural or aesthetic resources?

√

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources
(e.g., wetlands, waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion,
flooding or drainage problems?

√

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 4

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or
human health?

LWRP CONSISTENCY REVIEW FOR LOCAL LAW INTRODUCTORY NO. 12 OF 2024
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore,
revitalize,
and
redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro-North train
station, while facilitating public access to
the bay area and recreational use.
Encourage restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Encourage the appropriate re-use of the
old sewage treatment plant site at the
intersection of Route 9A and Municipal
Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters.
Encourage water-enhanced commercial
uses where such uses complement water
dependent uses and do not result in
displacement of such uses.
Further develop the State’s existing major
ports of Albany, Buffalo, New York,
Ogdensburg and Oswego as centers of
commerce and industry, and encourage
the siting, in these port areas, including
those under the jurisdiction of State public
authorities, of land use and development
which is essential to, or in support of,
waterborne transportation of cargo and
people.
Strengthen the economic base of smaller
harbor areas by encouraging the
development and enhancement of those
traditional uses and activities which have
provided such areas with their unique
maritime identity.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the

1A

1B

1C

2
2A

3

4

5

5A

Applicable
Yes/No
No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 5

6
6A

7

7A

7B

7C

7D

7E

current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Coastal Fish and Wildlife
Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant
Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be
protected and improved for conservation,
economic, aesthetic, recreational, and
other public uses and values. Its
resources shall be protected from the
threat
of
pollution,
misuse,
and
mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat and
the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of or
allowed to drain in, or on land within, the
area of influence in the significant fish and
wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat
or Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted
within the area of influence of the habitat
unless best available technology is used
to prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitats and shorelands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of
any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
site
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively managed so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 6

7F

7G

7H

8

9

9A

9B

10

polluting surface and ground water and
impact to the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion
or flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity in the Croton River and Hudson
River spawning areas shall be timed so
that spawning of anadromous fish species
and shellfish will not be adversely
affected.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause significant degradation of water
quality or impact identified significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Habitat-related policies identified in the
Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed
Conservation Action Plan will be
considered in actions proposed for these
areas (see Appendix C).
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous waste and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub-lethal or lethal
effects on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and
wildlife resources in coastal areas by
increasing access to existing resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Village
owned land adjacent to the railroad
parking lot, at Croton Point Park, at
Senasqua and Croton Landing Parks,
along the Croton River, and at the Croton
Yacht Club. Efforts should be made to
increase opportunities for public access
and enjoyment in these areas.
Encourage
passive
recreational
enjoyment of the wildlife in the designated
significant fish and wildlife habitats, on the
Audubon Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle
Arboretum, Gouveia Park and on other
public or private lands within the Village
where wildlife habitats are located, as well
as the protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new, or improvement of
existing onshore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
State's seafood products, maintaining
adequate
stocks
and
expanding
aquaculture facilities.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 7

11

12

12A

13

14

15

16

17

17A

FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion.
Activities or development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and
bluffs.
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier
to Croton Bay from activities or
development that would increase erosion
of or flooding of the point.
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at
least thirty years as demonstrated in
design and construction standards and/or
assured maintenance or replacement
programs.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site
of such activities or development, or at
other locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which
supply beach materials to land adjacent to
such waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase
in erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or
adjacent to an erosion hazard area to be
able to function, or existing development;
and only where the public benefits
outweigh the long term monetary and
other costs including the potential for
increasing erosion and adverse effects on
natural protective features.
Non-structural measures to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion shall be used
whenever possible.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes inland shall be of

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 8

18

19
19A

19B

19C

19D

20

21

21A

22

a
non-structural
nature,
wherever
possible, to minimize the visual impact of
structural measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the State
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to
the safeguards which the State has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities
Encourage the linkage of open space from
upland areas to and along the Hudson
and Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or
walkway system.
Increase public access to areas that offer
physical and visual connections to the
Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the improvement of public
transportation, when feasible, where water
dependent
and
water-enhanced
recreation activities are located.
Improve and maintain access to Croton
River and Bay at the Village-owned Echo
Canoe Launch south of the Village
parking lots at the Croton-Harmon Station
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner
compatible with adjoining uses. 19
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast.
Boating and fishing activities should be
encouraged provided that they do not
restrict other water-related recreational
opportunities and are undertaken in a
manner compatible with existing waterdependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to
the shore will provide for water-related
recreation whenever such use is
compatible with reasonably anticipated
demand for such activities and is
compatible with the primary purpose of

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 9

the development.

23

24

25

25A

26
27

28

29

30

HISTORIC AND SCENIC QUALITY
POLICIES
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, areas or sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources
of statewide significance. (The nearest
scenic area of statewide significance
(SASS) is the Bear Mountain Park subunit
of the Hudson Highlands SASS which is
north of the Village)
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified
as
being
of
statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Establish and protect identified public
viewsheds of the Hudson River,
including but not limited to the public
views of the Hudson River from the
western shoreline of the Village, and of
the Croton River and Gorge.
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Conserve and protect agricultural lands in
the State’s coastal area.
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
interfere
with
the
production
of
hydroelectric power, damage significant
coastal fish and wildlife and their habitats,
or increase shoreline erosion or flooding..
The development of offshore uses and
resources, including renewable energy
resources, shall accommodate New
York’s long-standing ocean and Great
Lakes industries, such as commercial and
recreational
fishing
and
maritime
commerce, and the ecological functions of
habitats important to New York.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited
to,
toxic
and
hazardous
substances, into coastal waters will
conform to State and National water

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 10

30A

31

32

33

33A

34

34A
35

36

quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose of any
regulated materials in coastal waters until
all such regulated materials have been
tested by the State for conformance with
water quality standards.
State coastal area policies and
management objectives of approved local
waterfront revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal water
classifications and while modifying water
quality standards; however, those waters
already overburdened with contaminants
will be recognized as being a
development constraint.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax
base of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used
to ensure the control of stormwater runoff
and combined sewer overflows draining
into coastal waters.
The flow of stormwater discharge shall be
controlled to limit the flow of pollutants
from street, and parking areas, etc.
directly into the rivers and water bodies.
Discharge of waste materials into coastal
waters from vessels subject to State
jurisdiction will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply
areas..
Moored structures or marine vessels shall
not discharge ballast water or other
releases into the waterway.
Dredging and filling in coastal waters and
disposal of dredged material will be
undertaken in a manner that meets
existing State permit requirements, and
protects significant fish and wildlife
habitats, scenic resources, natural
protective features, important agricultural
lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at least minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these
spills occur.

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 11

37

37A

38

39

40

41
42

43

44
44A

Best management practices will be
utilized to minimize the non-point
discharge of excess nutrients, organics
and eroded soils into coastal waters.
Control of the development of hilltops and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid waste, particularly
hazardous waste, within coastal areas will
be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to State water quality standards..
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or State air
quality standards to be violated.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the State reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant
amounts
of
acid
rain
precursors: nitrates and sulfates.
WETLAND POLICY
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits
derived from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.
LWRP SECTION IV PROPOSED LAND
USES AND PROJECTS
CROTON RIVER BASIN PROJECTS

1.

ENSURE MAINTENANCE OF NEW
CROTON DAM CONSERVATION FLOW
Maintaining natural river flows below
water supply reservoirs is inherently
complicated and requires a difficult

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 12

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

balance between human demands and
sustainable flows to conserve a river’s
ecological health
ADDRESS DRAINAGE SYSTEMS THAT
LEAD TO EROSION ON STEEP
SLOPES
The objective of this project is to promote
activities that will control soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by stormwater
runoff. These issues are most significant
along the steep banks of the Croton River
Gorge
FACILITATE UPGRADES TO CATCH
BASINS AND OUTFALLS TO ADDRESS
FLOATABLES
IN
CROTON
BAY
The intent of this project is to control
stormwater runoff discharges and other
pollutants from entering Croton Bay.
Protecting the ecological health of Croton
Bay and River is a priority for the Village.
FACILITATE UPGRADES TO CROTONHARMON PARKING LOT TO ADDRESS
FLOATABLES
IN
CROTON
BAY
The
parking
facility
is
currently
overwhelmed by asphalt paving with rows
of cars. There is minimal landscaping or
greenery, and in certain areas, parking
directly abuts wetland areas in Croton
Bay. The Village should consider
implementing green infrastructure within
the parking lot in order to capture runoff
onsite and reduce sewer overflows.
IMPROVE ECHO CANOE LAUNCH AND
VILLAGE-OWNED LAND AT THE
SOUTHERN END OF THE TRAIN
STATION PARKING LOT
This project supports the continued
improvement of this recreational area to
enhance public access to the Croton River
and Bay and the Hudson River
RELOCATE VILLAGE DPW FACILITY,
SALT SHED AND MATERIAL STORAGE
AREA
The DPW operates a salt storage shed at
the southern end of the Croton-Harmon
parking lot. There is also an uncovered
storage area near the salt shed for rocks
and other construction materials which
can leach directly into Croton Bay from
the facility.
HUDSON RIVERFRONT PROJECTS
FACILITATE ACCESS TO THE
HUDSON RIVER WATERFRONT
A recurring comment from public input
during this LWRP process and prior plans
was the need to improve access to the
Hudson River waterfront for vehicles,

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 13

8.

9.

10.

11.

pedestrians, and bicyclists. Although there
have been some improvements such as
the Brook Street pedestrian bridge, in
general, access to the waterfront is
limited, and difficult in some locations.
FACILITATE CROTON YACHT
CLUB/CROTON LANDING
IMPROVEMENTS
The concept of a waterfront restaurant, or
another use at the southern end of Croton
Landing Park, adjacent to the Croton
Yacht Club, has been discussed by the
Village for years. Parking is also an issue
as there is already insufficient on-site
parking at Croton Landing Park to satisfy
demand during busy hours.
IMPLEMENT SEGMENT OF
RIVERWALK TRAIL FROM CROTON
LANDING PARK TO OSCAWANA
COUNTY PARK
According to the Hudson River Trailway
Plan (2003), Westchester County has
proposed a 1-mile trail along the Hudson
River that would connect Croton Landing
Park with Oscawana County Park in
Cortlandt. This trail would fill a gap
between the River Walk trails at these two
parks.
VILLAGE -WIDE PROJECTS
UNDERTAKE MANAGEMENT AND
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN FOR
VILLAGE PARKS, TRAILS, OPEN
SPACES AND MEMORIALS
This project supports the creation of a
Parks
Maintenance
and
Capital
Improvement Plan to address ongoing
care and protection of existing parks,
open spaces, and trails. The goal would
be to provide an action plan for regular
maintenance
and
target
capital
improvements when needed.
DEVELOP PLAN FOR FUTURE USE OF
GOUVEIA PARK
The purpose of this project is for the
Village to create a conceptual plan that
will examine how to best utilize the
Gouveia Park, a 15.63-acre site acquired
by the Village.

5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none.
6. PUBLIC COMMENT - AGENDA ITEMS

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 14

Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he objects to the
resolution addressing a change in the Employee Policy Manual regarding the
prohibition of discrimination based on an employee’s or a dependent’s reproductive
health decisions.
Resolution approving the Consent Agenda
On motion by Trustee Nicholson and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approved the Consent Agenda.
Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote.
7. CONSENT AGENDA:
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Letter from 1 HMB Property Owner LLC withdrawing zoning petition for 1
Half Moon Bay Drive.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202501/ba2542d6fb70d0520277b9b4a8c4eb5a7e5d0720.pdf
b. Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on January 8, 2025,
was made by Trustee Nicholson. The motion was seconded by Trustee Politi and
approved with a 4-0 vote.
c. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #6-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON and seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been receiving rent from the solar array
located at the DPW Garage since 2020, and
WHEREAS the Village Board adopted Resolution 5-2020 to allocate 50% of that rental
revenue into a dedicated account to pay for ways to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, and

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 15

WHEREAS the Village Board would now like to allocate 100% of the DPW Garage solar
array revenue for the above-mentioned purpose,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Treasurer to place 100% of the rental revenue from the DPW Garage solar
array into a dedicated trust account, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that such revenue will be dedicated to funding opportunities
that will provide the Village with the highest available projected GHG reduction value, in
metric tons (MT) per invested dollar, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Resolution 5-2020 is hereby rescinded.
Resolution #7-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS on June 20, 2016, the Board of Trustees adopted the Employee Policy Manual
dated June 2016 and directed the Village Clerk to distribute the manual to all Officers,
Employees and Volunteers of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, and
WHEREAS New York State has adopted Labor Law § 203-e, which prohibits discrimination
based on an employee’s, or a dependent’s, reproductive health decision-making, and
WHEREAS this legislation requires that notice of such law be included in the Village’s
employee handbook,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
updated Employee Policy Manual dated January 2025, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees directs the Village Clerk to
distribute the updated manual to all Officers, Employees and Volunteers of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson.
Resolution #8-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
with a 4-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 16

WHEREAS the New York State Department of Transportation constructed
bikeway/walkway as part of the Croton River Bridge Replacement Project, and

a

WHEREAS it is incumbent on the part of both the Village and the Town to provide ongoing
maintenance to the bikeway/walkway component of said project, including the lighting
system, litter removal, maintenance of the asphalt and the areas off the asphalt, and
WHEREAS the Village and the Town have determined that it would be most efficient to
have one government responsible to provide the snow removal and lighting system
maintenance, and
WHEREAS it is the desire of the Village and the Town to enter into this Agreement
pursuant to the provisions of the General Municipal Law,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes
the Village Manager to execute the Crossining Bridge maintenance agreement with the
Town of Ossining.
Resolution #9-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS there have been a number of new police officers hired by the Village this fiscal
year, and
WHEREAS the Village covers the cost of the initial uniform purchase for each officer, and
WHEREAS additional funding is required in the Police Department budget to cover these
expenses,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $10,000 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
account: A3120.4260 – Police Department–Uniforms.
Resolution #10-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
with a 4-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 17

WHEREAS the Village has operated a public access cable TV channel for many years
through Optimum, and
WHEREAS certain legacy equipment for the channel is located at Croton-Harmon High
School, and
WHEREAS the equipment needs to be relocated off school grounds to allow the channel
to continue to operate, and
WHEREAS funding for such expenses was not included in the 2024-2025 General Fund
budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Treasurer to transfer $15,447 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the following
account: A6410.4000 – Publicity: Contractual.

8. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #11-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New
with a 3-0 vote (Trustee Politi recused herself from voting on this resolution).
WHEREAS the Village received a copy of the liquor license application for The Grand
Croton LLC, located at 130 Grand Street, and
WHEREAS the Planning Board has approved a change of use for this location to operate
as a café/theatre with a full kitchen and bar,
WHEREAS the applicant has requested that the Village waive the 30-day waiting period
so the application can proceed in a timely fashion,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby supports the waiving of
the 30-day waiting period for The Grand Croton LLC, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Clerk is directed to provide a copy of this
resolution to the applicant and New York State Liquor Authority.
DISCUSSION:

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 18

Adam Moore, 25 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, and Project Manager for “The Grand”,
stated that this is a community-based food and entertainment venue with the goal to
create a cultural hub in Croton.
Trustee Simon explained that waiving the 30-day period is a very slight reduction in the
amount of time it typically takes to receive a liquor license, there is still an onerous
process that they will have to go through with the State, but he is happy that we can
make that time more efficient and a little bit faster.
9. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked the Board to enforce
the dog ordinance, complained about increased traffic, and reckless driving and
asked that the Village enforce traffic laws, does not support the Village spending
$300,000 on repaving Oneida and Olcott Avenues, and does not support the
repaving of Cleveland Drive and asked that drainage issues be addressed instead.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is concerned
about the expansion of transit housing in Croton, does not support a 75 foot high
building on LOT A, and encouraged the Board to address the concerns of Young
Avenue residents with respect to this project, blamed Westchester County for the
mismanagement of their sewer treatment plant causing the closing of the Croton
River because of sewage issues and suggested that sewerage pipes that go
through our delicate and protected areas be double hull sewers, and addressed his
concerns regarding abortion.
10. REPORTS:
Trustee Politi stated that she met with the Arboretum, and they discussed how to
make improvements to their trail maps.
Trustee Nicholson stated that they have received concerns from the community
regarding the changes to immigration enforcement, as the liaison to the IDEA
Committee and the Police Advisory Committee, we are actively reviewing this
policy that was created in 2017, the bicycle giveaway project is slated for May 17th,
and advised that residents have to the end of the month to complete the Police
Advisory survey.
Trustee Simon thanked Village staff for all their hard work during our recent snow
storms, on January 9th the Chamber of Commerce received a presentation from the
Westchester Building and Realty Institute and Westchester County Association on
how the business community can work with local governments to address housing

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 19

issues, on January 9th he attended the Westchester Municipal Officials meeting
where NYCOM Executive Director and NYCOM President discussed the upcoming
State Budget, on January 14th he sat in on a presentation at the Town of Cortlandt
regarding the Quaker Bridge project, the Bicycle and Pedestrian Committee met on
January 16th and received a briefing from DPW on the Gotwald Circle, last night the
Planning Board met to discuss a change of use for Mirage Mirror and Glass, he and
Mayor Pugh participated in a briefing earlier this evening from Mothers Out Front
regarding “leave the plastic behind” program, and the Rotary held a meeting
yesterday where they received a briefing from the Westchester Children’s
Association.
Mayor Pugh advised that Earth Day will be held on May 3rd, the Repair Café will be
held on March 29th, attended the Conservation Advisory Council meeting where
they talked about supporting his pledge to support Monarch Butterflies, they also
talked about dark skies and their joint efforts with the Town of Cortlandt to update
our natural resource inventory.
Resolution
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board of
Trustees approved the following Mayoral appointments. Motion was approved with
a 4-0 vote.
Conservation Advisory
Council
IDEA Committee
IDEA Committee
Arts and Humanities Council
Sustainability Committee

David Daly

Term Expires 12/2026

Adriana Zavala
Kyla Black
Tom Kristich
Cheryl Wong

Term Expires 12/2025
Term Expires 12/2025
Term Expires 12/2026

Village Manager Healy explained that the resolution updating the Employee Policy
Manual was a law that was passed by the State and was an amendment to the New
York State Labor Law and based on the advice of our Labor Counsel, the Village was
instructed to add that statement to our Policy Manual, with respect to the comments
regarding Cleveland Drive, the work that is being done is being paid for through a
Federal earmark, it was limited in scope with what could be done, there were certain
roads that had a certain rating under the Federal Transportation System and
Cleveland Drive, Gerstein Street and Old Post Road South were the only ones that
qualified. Village Manager Healy stated that they will also be adding ADA ramps and
all of the sewer grates and manhole covers have either been replaced or reset so that

Village Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025
Page 20

they are flush with the ground so that the roadway is much safter for cyclists and
pedestrians, with respect to the comments regarding the paving of Olcott and Oneida,
all of our roads are rated through a grading system that our DPW uses, our DPW
Department is run by a very competent Professional Engineer and we take his
recommendations on which roads are in need of repaving. Village Manager Healy
advised that we have upgraded our microphones, we are in the process of upgrading
the camera system to provide crisper images, and as part of the Consent Agenda this
evening we approved transferring funds to fund the relocation of some equipment
from the High School to Village Hall so we can get our meetings back on television.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and
approved with a 4-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:20PM
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

