Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, June 11, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua B. Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson

The following officials were absent:
Trustee Slippen

Trustee Politi

1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 24255617-2600264. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$479,331.98
$51,507.63
$4,377.06
$127,432.74
$1,790.00

On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson, the Board
approved the Blanket Purchase Orders for Fiscal Year 2025-26 as presented
by the Village Treasurer. Motion was approved with a 3-0 vote.
3. Presentation of Life Saving Awards to Croton-on-Hudson First Responders &
Civilians
4. Presentation on Residential Solarize Program from Leo Wiegman, Director of
Solar Programs at Sustainable Westchester
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202506/ab54a6e27153b68dc0453a6092b24e85cd703ea7.pdf
5. PUBLIC HEARINGS

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 2

a.

Motion to open a Public Hearing on a proposed change to the
official map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to reflect the
proper length of Jasper Road was made by Trustee Simon.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0
vote.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.

Resolution #128-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the
following resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS Village Law § 7-724 provides for the ability of a Village to adopt an
official map showing the streets, highways and parks theretofore laid out, and
WHEREAS revisions to the official map of the Village were last adopted on January
24, 2024, and
WHEREAS the Village has received an offer of dedication for a portion of Jasper
Road, and
WHEREAS the Village Planning Board has reviewed the proposed map change and
provided a memorandum of support, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on June 11, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson formally
accepts and adopts the official map, as revised, effective June 11, 2025.
b.

Motion to open a Public Hearing on a Local Law Introductory No. 7
of 2025 to create Chapter 80, Bicycles & Scooters, and amend
Chapter 219, Unlicensed Motor-Driven Vehicles, of the Village
Code, to allow for the operation of bicycles with electric assist
and electric scooter was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.
DISCUSSION:

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 3

Village Manager Healy advised that this Local Law is a result of the
Village’s participation in the Project Mover/E-Bike Share Program, and
under the New York State Vehicle and Traffic Law, the Village is
required to adopt a Local Law authorizing this program to operate in
the Village.
COMMENTS:
John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
believes this is a good idea but is concerned that there are no
requirements to wear helmets, there are also two grades to these
vehicles one that can go up to twenty miles per hour and the other
thirty miles per hour and hopes that the vehicles the Village is
sponsoring will only go up to twenty miles per hour, as well as
instituting proper licensing.
Barry Scheer, 40 Irving Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that E-bikes
are regulated by New York State to go no more than twenty miles an
hour maximum with the exception of New York City. Mr. Scheer
stated that the Local Law refers to a list of streets where these
vehicles can operate but it is not included in the Local Law.
Village Manager Healy stated that as of now there are no streets or
public areas that are prohibited but we are referring this to the Bicycle
and Pedestrian Committee to review potential restrictions on the
Riverwalk and if there are restrictions those would be on that
Schedule.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion
to close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.
Resolution #129-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to add Chapter 80, Bicycles and Scooters, and
amend Chapter 219, Unlicensed Motor-Driven Vehicles, of the Village Code to allow
for the operation of bicycles with electric assist and electric scooters, and

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 4

WHEREAS the Village has been partnering with neighboring communities to launch
Project MOVER, an e-bikeshare program designed to enhance mobility and provide
environmentally friendly transportation alternatives, this year, and
WHEREAS the New York State Vehicle & Traffic Law requires municipalities to adopt
such a law before a system such as Project MOVER can operate, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 7 of 2025, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has determined that the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 7 of 2025 to be a Type II action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act, requiring no environmental review, and
WHERAS a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2025 was opened and
closed on June 11, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 7 of 2025 to add Chapter 80, Bicycles and
Scooters, and amend Chapter 219, Unlicensed Motor-Driven Vehicles, of the Village
Code to allow for the operation of bicycles with electric assist and electric scooters,
which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 9 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon thanked the speakers for their comments, but it is important that we
adopt this resolution as written so that we can move forward, the question of
helmets and licenses is something that we can consider.
Village Manager Healy explained that most of the law, if not all of it, was taken
from the State Law and we would be preempted from doing certain things.
c. Motion to open a Public Hearing on a on the Special Permit renewal
application from Verizon Wireless for the colocation of a wireless
antenna at 26 Veterans Plaza in the Croton-Harmon Train Station
parking lot was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy explained that this is a standard renewal, the
Village’s Telecommunications Code requires that the Special Permit for

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 5

the antenna be renewed every five years to ensure that there are no
changes in the technology.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.
Resolution #130-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village has received a special permit renewal application from
Verizon Wireless for a colocation of the personal wireless services facility located at
26 Veterans Plaza in the Croton-Harmon Train Station parking lot, and
WHEREAS Chapter 206, Telecommunications Towers, of the Village Code requires
the Board of Trustees to renew the special permit at five-year intervals to
determine whether technology has changed, and
WHEREAS the initial special permit was issued in 2010, and was renewed in 2015
and 2020, and
WHEREAS a public hearing was held and closed on June 11, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees does hereby
issue a special permit to Verizon Wireless for the colocation of a personal wireless
services facility at 26 Veterans Plaza with the following conditions:
1. That, as required in the Telecommunications Towers Law, Chapter 206 of the Village
Code, the special permit must be renewed every 5 years.
2. That, as required in the Telecommunications Towers Law, Chapter 206 of the Village
Code, the applicant must post a bond in the amount to be determined by the Village
Engineer to cover the costs of removing and disposing of the applicant’s equipment
which may consist of the antenna, building, and associated facilities. In the event
that the equipment is not removed within 90 days of the cessation of operations at
the site, the equipment may be removed by the Village and the costs of removal
assessed against the property, the bond or both.
3. That, the applicants’ telecommunications equipment shall at all times during the life
of the facility comply with the applicable FCC regulations pertaining to radio
frequency emissions, including such regulations as applicable to cumulative radio
frequency emissions. Any necessary mitigation measures to ensure compliance shall
follow FCC requirements, procedures and protocols.

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 6

4. That, there shall be no interference with any existing radio frequency equipment or
facilities already in place or to be installed in the future on the monopole at 26
Veterans Plaza.
5. That, all Verizon Wireless equipment on the monopole shall be painted to match the
approved color and be maintained in the future.
6. That, the equipment plans for the antennas call for present and future battery
cabinets. The applicant must identify the types of batteries used and their disposal
requirements. This information must be posted on the battery cabinets.
7. That, any future requirements for the use of a manlift or crane must be restricted to
Saturday or Sunday use, with prior notification of at least seven (7) days to the
Village Engineer, unless in the case of an emergency, in which 24-hour minimum
prior notification is needed. A copy of any required Entry Permit from Metro-North
Railroad/MTA shall be provided to the Village Engineer before use of the manlift or
crane at the site.

6. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL
7. PUBLIC COMMENT - AGENDA ITEMS Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, stated that, with respect to the LOT A
Contract, it appears that the seller is purchasing the easement for the
developer and asked if that is standard procedure, and are there any costs
being charged to the developer.
Janet Monahan, 116 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is
frustrated that some people in the community want to close the door on
future new neighbors, and emphasized that Croton would not be the same
vibrant community without all of our neighbors that have come to Croton in
the past and she supports the anticipated affordable housing project on LOT
A.
Richard Olver, 42 Whelan Avenue, Croton on Hudson. stated that the value
of his home has gone up 40% over the past ten years, and believes it is
impossible for young families to purchase a home in Croton and is concerned
that our children are being priced out. Mr. Olver commended the Board for
taking these steps to provide affordable ownership on LOT A.
Ethan Lewis, 38 Glengary Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is a
licensed architect and a member of the Croton Housing Network and believes
that the proposed sale of LOT A to WBP Development for residential use is a
forward-thinking decision that directly addresses long standing housing
challenges in our region and the site location makes it ideally suited for a
Transit Oriented Development.

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 7

Elisa Silverglade, Half Moon Bay, Croton on Hudson, thanked the Mayor and
Board, the IDEA Committee and community for their support for the first
annual pride flag raising and looks forward to continuing these traditions in
years to come.
John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that he already
supports public housing through his State and Federal taxes but does not feel
he needs to support housing through his local property taxes which are used
to support municipal services. Mr. McKeon asked how much will it cost
Croton taxpayers to bring appropriate water pressure to this area that was
rezoned for housing, how much is the Village going to be paying for the
easement and before the Board votes to affirm this contract for LOT A they
should disclose those additional costs to the public.
Ed Riley, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, does not believe that the
Pride flag should be flown on the municipal building, the only flag that should
be flown is the American flag.
Village Attorney Subin referred to a “Non-Binding Letter of Intent” on the last
page that he believes will answer some of the questions regarding the
Easement.

Owner shall grant to the Village an exclusive option to acquire and utilize said
Easement in its sole and absolute discretion for municipal purposes. Further, the
Village shall be permitted in its sole and absolute discretion to assign all of its
rights and obligations in Easement to the Developer for use in connection with
the Developer' s project as proposed at 1-3 Croton Point Avenue, Croton-onHudson, NY (the "Project").
The Village shall transfer to Owner, certain property along Croton Point Avenue,
of approximately 1,424 square feet, as more particularly described on Exhibit B
annexed hereto and made a part hereof (the "Village Parcel").
The Village agrees to offset future building or recreational fees for the future
subdivision or development of the Owner's property or credit the same to the
Owner in an amount not to exceed $75,000.00. The Village shall not be required
to outlay any funds to the Owner.
The Developer agrees to pay to the Owner $125,000.00 upon execution and
delivery of the Easement to the Village.

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 8

Village Manager Healy stated that the Village has been looking to obtain this
easement for well over a decade because there has been issues of water
quality in that area and by having this loop it will solve those problems and
will benefit the entire neighborhood. Village Manager Healy emphasized that
the developer will be paying for the Easement as well as the costs for
installing the water main.
Resolution Approving the Consent Agenda
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approved the Consent Agenda.
Motion was approved with a 3-0 vote.
8. CONSENT AGENDA:
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy requesting the Village Board
to refer the matter of electric bikes and scooters operating on the
RiverWalk to the Bicycle Pedestrian Committee for review and comment.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202506/e8ec0df817f41c2e43b8dbf65effab67fd597aae.pdf
2. Membership changes from the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202506/1f63e03cdd5e57a9638f2a0cca6810564ccacaa6.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #131-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to amend Chapter 227, Wetlands, and Chapter
230, Zoning, of the Village Code to update provisions related to trees, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 5 of 2025, which has been drafted for such purposes, and

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 9

WHEREAS the Village has completed Part 1 of a Short Environmental Assessment
Form (EAF) and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF), and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received comments back on the law from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee, Village Planning Board and Westchester County
Planning Board,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing to be held on June 25, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2025, to amend Chapter
227, Wetlands, and Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to update provisions
related to trees.
Resolution #132-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS on March 26, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Local Law 5 of
2025, which codified the decision to no longer serve as an assessing unit, and
WHEREAS the Village Code needs to be updated to reflect this change, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 8 of 2025, which has been drafted for such purposes,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing to be held on July 9, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna
Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider
the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 8 of 2025, to amend Chapter 204,
Taxation, to reflect the Village no longer serving as an assessing unit.
Resolution #133-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson established a Length of Service Award
Program (LOSAP) for active firefighters in the Croton-on-Hudson Volunteer Fire
Department in 2003, and

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 10

WHEREAS Penflex Inc. manages the administrative and actuarial records for the
Fire Department LOSAP, and
WHEREAS RBC Wealth Management manages the investment portion of the Fire
Department LOSAP, and
WHEREAS RBC Wealth Management has provided the Village with an updated
investment policy statement to guide the long-term investments of the program,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees adopts the
updated investment policy statement submitted by RBC Wealth Management.
Resolution #134-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS in November 2011, the Village Board of Trustees authorized a contract
with Mid-Hudson Ambulance District (MHAD) to provide supplemental Emergency
Medical Technician (EMT) services to Croton Emergency Medical Services (EMS),
and
WHEREAS the Village wishes to continue to provide supplemental services to Croton
EMS, and
WHEREAS MHAD has provided an agreement to continue providing supplemental
EMT services to Croton EMS at a rate of $45.98 per hour, and
WHEREAS the agreement is effective June 1, 2025, through May 31, 2026,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute an agreement for EMT services from
MHAD, at a rate of $45.98 per hour for the period beginning June 1, 2025, through
May 31, 2026.
Resolution #135-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 11

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police Department has used A1
Computer Services of Brewster, New York, to provide managed services for their
computers and other electronic devices for many years, and
WHEREAS the existing agreement between the Village and A1 Computer Services
has expired, and
WHEREAS the Village desires to continue its existing relationship with A1 Computer
Services,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute the service agreement with A1 Computer Services of
Brewster, New York, for managed services for the period beginning June 1, 2025,
through May 31, 2026, in the amount of $12,492, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to transfer
$1,446 from contingency account A1990.4000 to the following account:
A1650.4000.
Resolution #136-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS on May 8, 2025, the Village issued a request for proposals (RFP) for
stenographic work in the Village Justice Court, and
WHEREAS two proposals were received by the deadline of May 22, 2025, and
WHEREAS Bridget Abatecola was the lowest responsible respondent to the RFP,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to enter
into a contract with Bridget Abatecola for stenographic work in the Village Justice
Court beginning June 1, 2025, through May 31, 2026, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for such services is available in the
following account: A1110.4000.
Resolution #137-2025

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 12

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson partners with Marshall and Sterling
Employee Benefits (MSEB) to implement portions of the Affordable Care Act, and
WHEREAS MSEB has provided the Village with a Business Associate Agreement to
outline their commitment to guard the protected health information of employees
and
WHEREAS the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
requires any parties handling protected health information to have a formal written
agreement detailing the arraignment,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the Business Associate Agreement from
Marshall and Sterling Employee Benefits as presented.
c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on May 21,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote.
9. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #159-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
RESOLUTION ACCEPTING CONVEYANCE OF A PRIVATELY OWNED PORTION OF
JASPER ROAD
WHEREAS the Village is the owner of that certain roadway known as Jasper Road,
and
WHEREAS the paved travelled way of Jasper Road extends onto private land known
as 33 Mount Green Road which is shown on the Village’s Tax Map as 67.20-1-6, and
which is owned by Donald L. Vieira, As Trustee of the Donald L. Vieira Revocable
Trust (“Vieira”), and

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 13

WHEREAS a portion of 33 Mount Green Road is identified as the “Proposed Road
Dedication Parcel” on that certain survey prepared by Howard W. Weeden, PLS, PC,
entitled “Proposed Road Dedication and Survey of Property for Vieira” bearing a
revision date of March 13, 2025, (the “Survey”) and which portion is referred to
herein as the “Dedication Parcel”, and
WHEREAS a copy of the Survey is annexed hereto as Schedule A, and a legal
description of the Dedication Parcel is annexed hereto as Schedule B, and
WHEREAS Vieira wishes to convey to the Village and the Village wishes to accept
from Vieira fee title to the Dedication Parcel in order that the Village may add the
Dedication Parcel to the Village’s roadway system and maintain same as a Village
roadway going forward, and
WHEREAS prior to said conveyance, Vieira wishes to encumber the Dedication
Parcel with an easement over a portion of same for the benefit of that certain
adjacent property known as 27 Lounsberry Road (67.20-1-10) which is currently
owned by Sharon Terilli (“Terilli”), and
WHEREAS such easement is intended to provide Terilli with a right of way over that
portion of the Dedication Parcel adjacent to Terilli’s garage as shown on the Survey,
for the purpose of ingress and egress over the Dedication Parcel and for parking
within such easement area, and
WHEREAS the easement area is shown on said survey as “Proposed Driveway
Easement”, and is more particularly described on Scheule C attached, and
WHEREAS the conveyance of the Dedication Parcel to the Village will be subject to
the aforesaid easement, and
WHEREAS upon acceptance of the conveyance of the Dedication Parcel, the Village
will grant to Terilli a non-exclusive revocable license agreement permitting Terilli to
maintain but not extend an existing trellis and wooden wall to the extent that they
currently encroach into the Dedication Parcel, and
WHEREAS the conveyance of the Dedication Parcel is consistent with the Village’s
occasionally accepting donations and dedications of various parcels of land for
public use be it as streets, parks, easements, or reservations of land as herein
contemplated, and
WHEREAS, the Village wishes to accept the said conveyance and the deed
therefore,

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 14

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of
Trustees hereby authorizes the acceptance of title to the aforementioned Dedication
Parcel in accordance with the terms herein, and authorizes the Village Manager to
take such actions and execute all documents as are necessary to effectuate the
terms hereof, and to complete the transfer of ownership of the Dedication Parcel to
the Village, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that all documents in furtherance of such conveyance to
the Village shall be in form acceptable to the Village and subject to the revision of
any non-material matters as determined necessary by the Village Manager or
Village Attorney, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village shall obtain a title report and obtain title
insurance in the minimum amount to insure the said conveyance to the Village.
Resolution #160-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has a diverse Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual,
Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) community, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is committed to maintaining a welcoming
community for all in our homes, businesses, schools, places of worship and public
spaces, and
WHEREAS the Village Board is further committed to supporting the visibility,
dignity, and equality for all people in the community, and
WHEREAS LGBTQ+ Pride month is commemorated in June to honor the 1969
Stonewall Uprising, which is considered where the movement for LGBTQ+ rights
began, and
WHEREAS cities, towns, and villages across the United States recognize and
celebrate June as LGBTQ+ Pride month; and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees wishes to
communicate its support for inclusivity, equality, and respect in the Village,
denounces homophobia and transphobia, and desires to recognize and celebrate
June as LGBTQ+ Pride month,

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 15

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby declares the month of June 2025 as LGBTQ+ Pride
month in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that the Village has flown the Pride flag since 2018, but this was
our first flag raising organized by the IDEA Committee, it is one of the many
wonderful events the IDEA Committee is doing to recognize all the components and
beautiful mosaic of our community and extended his gratitude to the IDEA
Committee for putting this together and looks forward to celebrating other things
that make our community special.
Resolution #161-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees, in accordance with
the New York State Police Reform and Reinvention Collaborative, adopted a Police
Reform Plan (“the Plan”) on March 1, 2021, and
WHEREAS the Plan identified Priority 2 as developing a plan for the Croton-onHudson Police Department to become an accredited police department through the
New York State Law Enforcement Agency Accreditation Program, and
WHEREAS numerous steps have been undertaken since the adoption of the plan
towards this goal, including the renovation of police headquarters at the Municipal
Building, the creation of a dedicated space for the storage and tracking of evidence,
and the development of juvenile areas to comply with the New York State Raise the
Age Act, and
WHEREAS Chief of Police John Nikitopoulos has requested, as part of the 20252026 capital budget, to retain Lexipol LLC to assist in revising the department’s
existing Policy Manual for sworn officers and civilian staff, and
WHEREAS Lexipol LLC has provided a proposal to undertake these services in the
amount of $34,310,

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 16

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to accept the proposal from Lexipol LLC in the
amount of $34,310.
Resolution #162-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS in 2021, the EMS facility at 44 Wayne Street was deemed uninhabitable
due to mold and structural issues, requiring the relocation of EMS services to a
temporary space at the Harmon Firehouse, and
WHEREAS following a comprehensive review and design process involving Sullivan
Architecture, P.C., it was determined that an addition to the Harmon Firehouse
would serve as a permanent solution for the EMS facility, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson solicited sealed bids for garage doors
under Bid No. 7-2025, and
WHEREAS one bid was submitted by the deadline of May 8, 2025, and
WHEREAS the lowest responsible bid received was from Tierney & Courtney
Overhead Doors of Maspeth, New York, in the amount of $55,500, and
WHEREAS Superintendent of Public Works Frank Balbi has reviewed the submitted
bids and has recommended awarding the contract to Tierney & Courtney Overhead
Doors,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
award Bid No. 7-2025 to Tierney & Courtney Overhead Doors of Maspeth, New
York, in the amount of $55,500 and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this project has been allocated in capital
account H4540.2102.23445.
Resolution #163-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 3-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 17

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has owned the parcel known as Parking
Lot A (“the Property”) since the 1960s, when it was purchased from the New York
Central Railroad, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has determined the Property is not needed for
municipal purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village issued an RFP for the Property on July 24, 2023, and received
two proposals by November 15, 2023, and
WHEREAS the Village Board met with each of the proposers, reviewed the
proposals, the qualifications submitted by the proposers and their experience
developing similar projects, and their financial qualifications, and
WHEREAS on April 24, 2024, the Village Board approved a term sheet with WBP
Development LLC for the sale and development of this property, and
WHEREAS the Village has been in negotiations with WBP Development for the legal
terms of the contract of sale, and
WHEREAS on December 18, 2024, the Village Board as lead agency adopted a
negative declaration under SEQRA in connection with the sale and development of
the property,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute the contract of sale with WBP Development LLC, subject
to the Village Attorney’s final approval.
DISCUSSION
Trustee Simon stated that since the Special Permit was granted our Planning Board
has been focusing on the Site Plan, we have had good participation from the
Planning Board and WBP answering questions and concerns from the community
and thanked the Village Manager and Village Attorney for their hard work on this
purchase agreement.
Trustee Nicholson stated that the Village will be raising two and half million dollars
from the sale of this property, it will also bring home ownership for moderate to
low-income families; as well as bringing a lot of energy to our community to what is
now an empty lot.

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 18

Mayor Pugh stated that this has been a long process, and an important step
forward, this parking lot has been unused for five years and the development will
be a significant upside to our community.
10.PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Dave Lowell, 52 Farrington Road, Croton on Hudson, indicated that his
research shows that no tickets have been issued to people using gaspowered blowers, the policy has failed us and asked that the Village do what
they need to get landscapers to abide by this law.
Gary Eisenger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked how many
hours in advance a document needs to be submitted to be counted as part of
the record because he did not see the information that the Village Attorney
referred to in the back-up documents on the website.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed his concerns
about flying flags other than American flags on the Municipal building and
addressed intolerance towards some people for hanging flags or banners on
their properties.
Ethan Lewis, 38 Glengary Road, Croton on Hudson, thanked the Board for
supporting everyone in this community.
11.REPORTS:
Trustee Nicholson advised that the Recreation Committee met and discussed
Dobbs Park, the Police Advisory Committee held a town Hall meeting last week
and encouraged the community to view the video posted on the Village’s
website, thanked the IDEA Committee for a wonderful Pride flag raising event,
encouraged everyone to come to Vassallo Park to participate in the Juneteenth
activities and emphasized that the Village needs to do a better job in controlling
gas powered leaf blowers.
Trustee Simon advised that on May 23rd Shoprite presented American Legion
Post 505 with a check for $5,000, thanked American Legion Post 505 for putting
together a wonderful Memorial Day ceremony, on May 29th the Westchester
Municipal Planning Federation recognized Croton for their Accessory Dwelling
Unit Law and awarded Christine Wagner, Croton’s long term Zoning Board Chair,
the Distinguished Citizen Planner award, on May 31 Croton Caring held a
fundraiser at the Green Growler, thanked everyone for putting together a
wonderful Summerfest, Historic Hudson met with our Business Group to talk

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 19

about ways in which our local businesses can be highlighted in the Blaze
promotional and information materials, last Friday the annual Croton Caring and
the Rotary held a BBQ for our seniors at Senasqua Park, the Yacht Club held
their Commissioning Day on June 7th, and on June 8th the Sustainability
Committee met and talked about upcoming programs and benefits of solar.
Village Attorney Subin emphasized that flags are symbolic speech, they are part
of the first amendment, a flagpole is a place where you raise flags that
symbolize whatever you want and it is this Board’s free speech right to do so.
Village Attorney Subin advised that the Open Meetings Law requires
municipalities to give twenty-four hours’ notice for a meeting, but it you cannot,
there is a “as soon as practical” component in the law, and the reason the final
LOT A Contract was posted at 5:00pm is because it was still being updated.
Mayor Pugh thanked the Westchester/Putnam Building and Construction Trade
Council as well as the Scouts for organizing the Trails to Trades series. To learn
more, you may click on the following link: https://trailstotrades.org/.
Mayor Pugh appointed the following Student Members to the IDEA Committee:
Nina Arnold and Penda Dyer.
Mayor Pugh wished everyone a happy Pride Month, Happy Juneteenth and
Happy Father’s Day.
Village Manager Healy advised that one appearance ticket was issued for the use
of a gas-powered blower last year but was ultimately withdrawn after the
property owner applied and received an Exemption Permit and this year the
Village issued one ticket to a commercial property on Riverside Avenue. Village
Manager Healy stated that we are trying to be more proactive but it is difficult to
issue violations based on complaints, we continue to send out letters to
landscapers that we know reminding them of the law.
Village Manager Healy emphasized that backup items are updated frequently,
the agenda for the meeting was posted on Monday, but there was an addition to
the LOT A contract and that was uploaded at 5:00pm today.
Village Manager Healy stated that he has been in discussion with the owner of
the Maple Commons property regarding rent increases. Village Manager Healy
explained that the property is governed by the New York State Home and
Community Renewals under the Low-Income Tax Credit Housing Program, and
as such the State sets the guidelines, this year they were given an 8.4 percent

Village Board of Trustees
June 11, 2025
Page 20

increase which was an unusual increase but was granted because of a number of
factors including substantial increases in insurance costs, and strong inflationary
pressures on staffing, supplies and utility costs.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 3-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:28pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

