Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, March 12, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua B. Subin
Village Treasurer Daniel Tucker

Trustee Simon
Trustee Politi
Trustee Slippen

The following officials were Absent:
Trustee Nicholson
1. Mayor Pugh called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 24254034-24254277. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Politi and approved with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$128,567.72
$16,872.99
$6,892.68
$43,498.40

3. PUBLIC HEARING
a.

Motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 14 of
2024 to add Chapter 8, Assessments, Real Property Tax, to the Village
Code and consolidate the Village’s assessing unit with the Town of
Cortlandt was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Politi and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Village Treasurer Tucker explained that after the Board adopts their
Budget, a Tax Levy is established and the Assessment Roll is used to
calculate individual property tax bills and if the Board chooses to adopt
this law, the Village will no longer create its own Assessment Roll but
rather rely on the Town of Cortlandt’s Assessment Roll for this

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 2

calculation. Village Treasurer Tucker explained that the Town’s
Assessment Roll is already being used for Town, County and School
Taxes, and because there are some variations between the Village and
Town Assessment Rolls, most properties in the Village will experience
some type of change. Village Treasurer Tucker also emphasized that this
is not a revaluation of properties and the Board will still maintain
independence of its own Budget and Tax Levy.
Village Manager Healy stated that this is a culmination of a multi-year
process that began in 2012. Village Manager Healy stated that
approximately 70% of Villages in New York State have already turned
their assessing function over to their Town, and thirteen Villages in
Westchester County have done this as well, the State does not allow new
Villages to create an assessing unit unless they specifically adopt a Local
Law to do so. Village Manager Healy added that the State is discouraging
duplication of services and in the era of the Tax Cap, being able to
consolidate this service is helpful. Village Manager Healy stated that the
financial aspect is only one consideration, because our Assessor is
housed in our Engineering Department, our Engineering Department staff
has been the support staff for the Assessor and a lot of the work falls on
them because the Assessor is only in the office one day a week. Village
Manager Healy advised that the Village undertook a study of our
Engineering Department, and that study indicated that if we continue to
keep the Assessing functions in the Engineering Department, additional
support staff would be necessary.
Village Manager Healy stated that after doing some research and looking
at some individual property cards, it appears that a lot of the larger
differences came about in the 1990’s when the Town of Cortlandt’s
Assessor conducted field inspections and looked at individual properties
to make sure that these properties matched what they had on their
property cards, in many cases they didn’t because homeowners had
either done work without getting permits or they had gotten permits and
never closed the permits so the end result of the work was not reflected
on their assessment, so when the Town made those field inspections
they increased the Town’s Assessed Valuation and because the Village
had not done those field inspections, the Village did not increase their
Village Assessment.

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 3

Trustee Simon encouraged everyone to watch the Webinar if they have
not done so and review the FAQ’s. Trustee Simon added that this will
not take effect until 2026, and those that have concerns will have time to
evaluate their assessments and bring those discrepancies to the Town.
Village Manager Healy emphasized that if homeowners believe their
assessed valuation by the Town is too high, they should grieve it now as
that value is being used to calculate a majority of a property's tax bill."
COMMENTS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he
believes the Village of Briarcliff Manor is attempting to get their Assessor
back, and since we have everything in place, why fix something that is
not broken. Mr. Mamone stated that the Village only has 2,500 properties
and we want our own Assessor closer to home rather than an Assessor
who is not familiar with Croton.
Village Attorney Joshua B. Subin stated that he is also the Village
Attorney for the Village of Briarcliff Manor, and he is not aware of any
effort or movement on the part of the Village of Briarcliff Manor to take
back it’s of assessing responsibilities.
Rich Kingham, 38 Elmore Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that his
home has a $100,000 discrepancy between his Village and Town
Assessment, which is pretty alarming. Mr. Kingham stated that when he
completed the construction on his home, they closed their permit and
everything was done correctly and, if this is passed, the Village should
reach an agreement with the Town for properties with large discrepancies
to use the lower of the two numbers so there would be some equity built
into the procedure.
David Goldman, 76 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is
very concerned because his property will receive a 55% increase in
taxes, but he also wants to maintain personalized government. Mr.
Goldman stated that he also read an article about some of the complaints
that the Village of Briarcliff Manor is having because of a lack of response
from their Town and urged the Board not to pass this.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that this is a
bad idea, and believes that one of the principal reasons for doing this is

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 4

to be able to use staff to do more inspections on multi-family housing.
Mr. Riely stated that what people like about Croton is that we have
excellent services, and now the Board wants to surrender the Assessor
functions that cost $32,000 a year and ship it off to an inconvenient
location, if this is the trend, then the Village should surrender Village
government if we are going to surrender authority on some of our Village
functions. Mr. Riely stated that he also suspects there is a wave where
Towns, Villages and Counties want to do a revaluation to raise property
taxes. Mr. Riley emphasized that if he wants to make complaints about
his Assessment or any other issue, he wants to make it to this Board, not
to the Town of Cortlandt.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that as a
matter of principle any necessary tax reform should be done as part of a
holistic plan that nets a real broad based benefit to the Village, and all
residents, and any tax reform should be fair and equitable for everyone,
this proposal will raise taxes on over 1,200 homeowners, while lowering
the property assessment for approximately 1,300 homeowners, some will
get a Village property tax break while other vulnerable populations will
have to shoulder tax increases, over 200 residents will pay at least
$1,000 more per year under this plan, too many seniors face double or
even triple percentage tax increases, yet there are million dollar
properties that will enjoy triple digit tax decreases. Mr. Eisinger stated
that he believes this change will reduce revenues by $132,000 and
indicated that the Mayor and three Trustees will see a reduction in their
Assessment.
Hannellie Kratchman, 161 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that
she will have a significant increase because her discrepancy is around
$100,000 and while she understands that she can speak with the
Assessor and try to dispute this increase, in the past she has gone
through the process in both the Village and Town and it has not worked
very well. Ms. Kratchman talked about the unfairness of the process and
does not believe that anyone will be successful in getting their
assessment reduced.
Sherry Horowitz, 119 Maple Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she
does not believe that enough property owners participated in the
Webinar, economics are pretty chaotic right now and she does not think
this is the best time for us to be messing around with people’s taxes

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 5

even though these taxes will not go into effect until 2026, her taxes will
go down but she is thinking about her neighbors and this is a very bad
time. Ms. Horowitz stated that when she was on the Board we tried to do
away with the Village Court and residents did not want it, and residents
have made it pretty clear that they are not interested in farming out our
services.
Vic Conte, 40 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that he completed
his home last year and it was recently assessed, the Town is now
assessing it 39% more, this seems like a significant difference in just one
year.
Kelly Nein, 221 Grand Street, Croton on Hudson, thanked staff for
answering her questions but she is concerned because a number of her
neighbors are elderly and they will be seeing substantial increases and
asked how that information is being disbursed to those that may not be
using technology the same way.
Domna Candido, 1299 Albany Post Road, Croton on Hudson, stated that
she does not believe this is the right time because there are too many
lose-ends with respect to the Assessment Roll and believes there are
going to be severe inequities with tax money coming in from a smaller
portion of property owners.
Susan Skrelja, 56 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, supported the
comments made by one of the speakers regarding her issues trying to
grieve her taxes, and while that process is in place and people have the
right to do it, the likelihood of being successful is extremely low. Ms.
Skrelja stated that her house will see a fairly significant decrease but this
is because they did an addition to their home and they were recently
assessed and while she does not see some mischievous thing the Board
is looking to do in regards to personally benefitting from this, the optics
do not look good, residents living here are used to paying the taxes they
pay and if this goes through, it will be a burden to a large number of
residents who have lived here a long time and are on a fixed income and
the Board needs to revaluate this and not jump the gun.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to
close the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Politi and approved with a 4-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 6

Resolution #44-2025 – Resolution Held-Over
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees is considering the adoption of Local Law
Introductory No. 14 of 2024, a local law to add Chapter 8, Assessments, Real
Property Tax, to the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to consolidate the
Village’s assessment unit with the Town of Cortlandt, and
WHEREAS New York State law authorizes villages to consolidate their assessment
status and have towns provide this service, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been discussing this possibility since
at least 2012, and
WHEREAS consolidating the Village’s Assessment Roll with the Town would provide
a financial savings to the Village and provide residents with one assessed valuation
for the entirety of their tax bill, as opposed to the current system of one valuation
for Village taxes and one valuation for town/county/school taxes, and
WHEREAS the Village previously held a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory
No. 14 of 2024 on November 20, 2024, and
WHEREAS a second Public Hearing was opened and closed on March 12, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
adopts Local Law Introductory No. 14 of 2024, to add Chapter 8, Assessments, Real
Property Tax, to the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to consolidate the
Village’s assessment unit with the Town of Cortlandt, which upon adoption will
become Local Law No. 5 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy emphasized that there is no impact on revenues, whatever
the Budget sets as the amount of tax revenue that is needed to operate the Village,
that amount is going to be distributed among the 3,300 parcels in the Village based
on their assessment and by using the Town’s assessment, the Village of Croton will
not see any revenue losses.
Village Treasurer Tucker explained that taxes are determined by the Budget and the
Assessment Roll is how the tax bills are assigned.
Village Attorney Subin explained that a resident can challenge their Assessment for
a misclassification of their property, an unlawful assessment (the property should
have been exempt), or excessive assessment/unequal assessment.

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 7

Village Manager Healy stated that it is not fair to say that the Board never reduces
assessments; when the Village Board met as the Board of Assessment Review last
month, the Board did agree with some homeowners that came before them and
lowered their assessment. Village Manager Healy advised that we are considering
this now so that residents have the maximum amount of time to review
comparisons in their neighborhood as well as reviewing their property files and
emphasized that the Village plans to do a vigorous outreach campaign to every
resident who will be getting an increase.
Village Manager Healy stated that the New York State Office of Real Property
supports the consolidation of assessing functions because communities cannot
afford the rising salaries of Assessors, we are paying our Assessor $30,000 a year
which is the going rate for a part time Assessor. Village Manager Healy stated that
the Town has a full-time Assessor, along with an Assessment Clerk and an Office
Assistant that are available to the public five days a week.
Mayor Pugh stated that he appreciates the comments made this evening and he is
recommending that the Board hold-over the resolution. Mayor Pugh stated that he
has supported consolidation of our assessment function even before he owned
property in the Village, and since his own personnel circumstances were mentioned
this evening, he has already stated that he would donate his savings back to the
Village.
Trustee Slippen stated that she is in favor of holding the resolution over, we have a
responsibility for more communication and outreach and believes if more people
knew what was going on, especially from those that will be paying more, they
would have reached out, just because there are benefits to consolidation, she feels
a responsibility to make sure that the community understands what is going to
happen.
Trustee Politi emphasized that it is not about the $30,000, but rather an efficiency
that will be achieved by consolidation, her taxes will increase significantly but that
is not why she supports holding the resolution over, she supports it because it is
important to look at how we are communicating this information with our residents.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - none.
PUBLIC SERVICE ADDRESS BY POLICE CHIEF regarding Immigration
Status. To view the Police Chief’s address and comments by the Board, you
may log onto the following:

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 8

https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1025 (section 1.09.51)
5. PUBLIC COMMENT - AGENDA ITEMS
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, suggested getting inhouse staff certified to do the assessing functions, does not believe the
Village needed to repave Oneida and Olcott Avenues and Cleveland Drive nor
replace sidewalks at Gotwald Circle, objects to spending money on the
Gouveia property, and objects to looking at getting funds from the State for
Clean Water Infrastructure projects and believes we can handle this on our
own.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that if we are just
moving the assessing function to the Town, there should be no changes and
no one should see an increase or a decrease since we are just moving the
function from one place to the other and if there is, there must be another
component to this, additionally, no one has addressed moving it back to the
Village if this does not work out and he does not believe this is going to save
us money but rather just cost shifting. Mr. Riely stated that historically the
Town has done little or nothing for Croton and the Board needs to decide if
they want to be a Village Government or a Town Government. Mr. Riely
stated that he does not support renaming the Gouveia property.
Gary Eisinger, 210 Cleveland Drive, Croton on Hudson, continues to believe
that there will be a $132,000 deficit. Mr. Eisinger stated that the 2,500
parcels he was referring to were just residential homeowners.
Resolution Approving the Consent Agenda
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson approved the Consent Agenda.
Motion was approved with a 4-0 vote.
6. CONSENT AGENDA:
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Email from Brian Godleski, Croton Little League Secretary requesting
to hold the 2025 Little League Parade on Saturday, April 5th.
2. Membership Changes from the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 9

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202503/8ffbea5a9f5fe8976b8e295a4f9a91045b72b858.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #45-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON and seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Westchester County has provided the Village with an Inter-Municipal
Agreement to partially fund youth employment for 2025, and
WHEREAS the county has provided funding for youth program staffing in previous
year, and
WHEREAS the total funding of $4,438 will be used to support youth employment at
the Village’s summer camp programs,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute the Inter-Municipal Agreement with Westchester County.
Resolution #46-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been awarded a grant in the
amount of $100,000 from the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York
(DASNY) for the purpose of purchasing a dump truck for the Department of Public
Works, and
WHEREAS the funding has been granted under the Community Resiliency, Economic
Sustainability, and Technology (CREST) Program,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to sign the Grant Disbursement Agreement with the
Dormitory Authority of the State of New York and to execute any additional
documents necessary for the acceptance and administration of the grant funds.
Resolution #47-2025

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 10

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Sections 5-504, 5-506, and 5-508 of New York State Village law set forth
certain procedures and dates for the adoption of the annual Village budget, and
WHEREAS in accordance with Section 5-504 the Village Manager, as Budget Officer,
will file the tentative budget in the office of the Village Clerk on or before the
twentieth day of March, and
WHEREAS Section 5-508.3 provides that a public hearing shall be held upon the
tentative budget, as changed, altered or revised, on or before the fifteenth day of
April,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing on March 26, 2025, at 7 p.m. at the Stanley H.
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, located at 1 Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson,
New York, to consider the 2025-2026 Tentative Budget.
Resolution #48-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village would like to update Chapter 116, Environmental Review, of
the Village Code to provide for the listing of additional Type II actions under the
State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA), and
WHEREAS the Village Board is considering the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 3 of 2025, which has been drafted for such purposes, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has received comments back on the law from the
Village Planning Board and the Waterfront Advisory Committee,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing to be held on March 26, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2025, to provide for the
listing of additional Type II actions under the State Environmental Quality Review
Act (SEQRA).

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 11

Resolution #49-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village Justice Court maintains an annual operating budget with
contractual expenses tied to services and hearings as needed, and
WHEREAS in fiscal year 2025, the court experienced an increase in stenographic
and interpreter services expenses, and
WHEREAS the Justice Court Clerk has submitted a budget transfer request in the
amount of $8,120 to cover the court dates scheduled through May,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees authorizes
the Village Treasurer to make the following transfers in the 2024-2025 General
Fund budget:
Increase
A1110.4000 - Justice Court Contractual

$ 8,120

Decrease
A1110.1100 – Justice Court-Pers Srvcs PT
A1110.1200 – Justice Court-Pers Srvcs OT
A1990.4000 – Contingency-Contractual

$ 3,000
$ 1,000
$ 4,120

c. Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the minutes, as amended, of the Regular Meeting held
on February 12, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was
seconded by Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #50-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS one vacancy in the Croton Police Department currently exists for the
position of Police Officer, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 12

WHEREAS Chief of Police John H. Nikitopoulos has interviewed several candidates
for the position and recommends the hiring of Joseph Cunningham for the position
of Police Officer,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Joseph Cunningham is hereby appointed as
a Police Officer in the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department as of March 13, 2025,
at an annual salary of $71,876.58, pending the passage of medical exams and
approval from the Westchester County Department of Human Resources, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the official start date on payroll for Mr. Cunningham
shall be determined by the Chief of Police upon completion of the above-stated
exams and approvals.
Resolution #51-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson purchased portions of the parking lot at
the Croton-Harmon Train Station from the New York Central Railroad in the 1960s,
and
WHEREAS the Metro-North Commuter Railroad Company (“Metro-North”) is the
successor railroad to the New York Central, and
WHEREAS included in the purchase and sale agreement with New York Central was
the right to repurchase the property for railroad purposes, and
WHEREAS the Metropolitan Transportation Authority board voted to terminate these
rights at their October 2022 board meeting, and
WHEREAS the Village has a number of property maintenance agreements with
Metro-North regarding the sidewalks, parking areas and planting areas adjacent to
the railroad tracks, and
WHEREAS, the Village has agreed to maintain the sidewalk in front of the station
house in exchange for the termination of the repurchase rights, and
WHEREAS it is in the best interest of both parties to consolidate these agreements
into one Property Maintenance Agreement, and

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 13

WHEREAS Metro-North has sought permanent and temporary easements from the
Village related to railroad operations and construction, and
WHEREAS the Village Engineer and Superintendent of Public Works have reviewed
these requests and do not anticipate any issue arising from the granting of the
easements,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees authorizes
the Village Manager to execute the following agreements, subject to the final
approval of the Village’s Special Counsel: Property Maintenance Agreement,
Release of Right to Repurchase, Permanent Easement Agreement and Temporary
Easement Agreement.
Resolution #52-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS until 2024, cities, villages, and towns across New York State had not
received an increase in unrestricted state aid, known as Aid and Incentives for
Municipalities (AIM) funding, for 15 years, significantly impacting their ability to
provide essential services to their residents, and
WHEREAS after a prolonged period without financial support, local governments
finally received an increase of $50 million in unrestricted state aid; and
WHEREAS the State has referred to this new aid as Temporary Municipal
Assistance, suggesting that such an increase may not continue, thereby
jeopardizing the sustainability of crucial municipal programs and services, and
WHEREAS increased and ongoing state aid for local governments is vital for
maintaining infrastructure, public safety, housing, and other municipal services, and
WHEREAS, the New York Conference of Mayors (NYCOM) has circulated a letter for
all municipalities to join as signatories in support of increased funding,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of
Trustees authorizes the Mayor to join as a signatory to the letter circulated by
NYCOM.
DISCUSSION:

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 14

Trustee Simon stated that this was the number one issue on the minds of most of
the attendees at the New York Conference of Mayors conference, the collective
work on the part of all the municipalities yielded an increase last year after many
years of it being held flat and we are hopeful that these combined efforts once
again can bring about some increases in the funding.
Mayor Pugh stated that this is revenue sharing from the State that has until very
recently been held flat even while State Aid to other entities has grown and he
believes a modest increase in funding is more than warranted because the State
unlike the Village has access to many revenue sources.
Resolution #53-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson operates a municipal water system for
residents and businesses in the community, and
WHEREAS the system is in need of continuous improvements to ensure high levels
of water quality for all users, and
WHEREAS Local Progress, a grassroots organization in New York State, has drafted
a letter to Governor Hochul for elected officials to join as signatories, and
WHEREAS the letter requests that the governor increase funding for clean water
infrastructure projects in the state budget by $100 million,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of
Trustees authorizes the Deputy Mayor to join as a signatory to the letter circulated
by Local Progress.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon started that he had the honor to participate in a meeting with all of
our Westchester County delegation members in Albany, as well as labor unions that
deal with environmental infrastructure and our regional and environmental
organizations and we all had the same purpose, to request additional money to help
us keep pace with our growing needs.

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 15

Mayor Pugh stated that the rising costs of construction consistently outpaces
inflation so this investment is what is needed to keep us ahead of rising
construction costs.
Resolution #54-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS on January 31, 2025, Con Edison filed a petition with the New York Public
Service Commission to increase electric and gas rates as of January 1, 2026, and
WHEREAS under this petition electric rates would rise by 18% with residential
delivery charges increasing by 25.1%, and natural gas delivery rates rising by
19.1%, and
WHEREAS this Con Edison rate hike proposal comes after an increase of 20% in
rates over the past three (3) years and any further significant increases would have
negative financial impacts on residents and businesses within Westchester County,
and
WHEREAS the Public Service Commission is currently reviewing Con Edison’s
petition for an electric and gas rate increase, and
WHEREAS it is in the best interest of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to be
represented in this matter to ensure the concerns of local governments and its
residents are adequately addressed, and
WHEREAS Joel R. Dichter of Dichter Law LLC has the necessary experience and
expertise to represent the interests of the participating municipalities in this case
and has submitted a proposal dated February 13, 2025, to represent participating
municipalities, and
WHEREAS the proposal includes intervening in the rate case, conducting discovery,
retaining expert witnesses, preparing briefs, and attending all hearings and any
settlement negotiations at a total cost that shall not exceed One Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($100,000) which would be split equally among all of the participating
municipalities that accept his representation in this rate case, and
WHEREAS such representation will only proceed if at least twenty
municipalities agree to be represented by Joel R. Dichter of Dichter Law LLC,

(20)

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 16

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of
Trustees hereby authorizes the hiring of Joel R. Dichter of Dichter Law LLC as
special counsel to represent participating Westchester municipalities in Con Edison’s
Electric and Gas Rate Case before the Public Service Commission, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village’s share of the legal fees shall be
determined based on an equal division among all participating municipalities, with
the total amount of such representation not to exceed $100,000, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that this authorization shall only take effect if at least
twenty (20) municipalities agree to be represented by Joel R. Dichter of Dichter Law
LLC in this matter, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is authorized to execute any
and all documents related to the hiring of Joel R. Dichter of Dichter Law LLC.
Resolution #55-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-onHudson, New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson wishes to have the legal authority to
lease certain sports field fences for advertisements, and
WHEREAS the authority would be granted to the following locations: Dobbs Park,
Duck Pond Park and Firefighters Memorial/David J. Manes Fields, and
WHEREAS Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg has introduced bill A810 in the State
Assembly to permit the Village to lease certain sports field fences for
advertisements, and
WHEREAS State Senator Peter Harckham has introduced companion bill S5525 in
the State Senate regarding same, and
WHEREAS the Village is required to formally submit a home rule request to the
legislature,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
requests permission to lease certain sports field fences in the Village of Croton-onHudson under the state’s home rule authority; and

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 17

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a copy of this home rule request be sent to State
Assemblywoman Dana Levenberg and State Senator Peter Harckham.
8. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, suggested that some
residents watching from home may not have been able to hear the meeting,
and it was also difficult to hear comments that were made on Zoom, stated
that he believes that Con-Edison is losing a ton of money because there are
so many solar panels on homes, asked that the dog ordinance and reckless
driving rules be enforced, asked that people attending Planning and Zoning
Board meetings be allowed to speak for 5 minutes, suggested giving the
historical society a better location at Village Hall, and suggested that the
Board ask the public what they would like to see at the Gouveia property.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed issues related to
abortion, residents may log onto the Village Website to hear Mr. Riely’s
comments:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1025,
(section 1.53.09).
9. REPORTS:
Trustee Slippen thanked everyone for coming out this evening to share their
comments, thanked the County Board of Legislators for their efforts in
collaborating on Con Edison rates, thanked DPW for working on our fields,
Kayak rentals open this week, and camp registration opens next week.
Trustee Slippen announced the passing of Tony Gagliotti and Carol Shanesy
and thanked them for all they had done for our Village. Trustee Slippen
stated that we have been talking about the Gouveia property over the past
ten years, an AD Hoc Committee was formed to come up with ideas of what
to do with the property and is pleased that we are moving forward with those
plans, the building is not ADA compliant and we are required to make it
accessible to all our residents, the decisions that have been made have been
fairly well documented and she is very proud of the work that has been done
to get us to this point and knows that when completed, we will have a
beautiful park that will be usable to everyone in the Village.
Trustee Politi stated that we are all shocked by the anticipated rate increases
by Con Edison and is glad that we will be working with other municipalities
on this issue, attended her first WAC meeting where they reviewed Zoning
Code amendments, attended the Business Meeting this past Monday where

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 18

representatives from Neighbors Link spoke on how these new immigration
rules can impact businesses, we also had a representative from the Blaze
who talked about how they can better partner with our local businesses.
Trustee Politi addressed some of Mr. Riely’s comments regarding abortion
which can be heard by logging onto the following under Reports:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1025.
Trustee Simon stated that the Gouveia property has had a tremendous
amount of public involvement over the last few years, and we have had
ample opportunity to discuss thoroughly the recommendations that Trustee
Nicholson and Trustee Slippen brought to us. Trustee Simon stated that he
has it from a good source that the sound for this evening’s meeting is
working just fine, yesterday he toured the Village with Police Chief
Nikitopoulos and DPW Foreman Scott Marsh focusing on where the hubs
should be for our bike share program and is pleased to advise that we also
received 200 responses from the community on the various proposed
locations, we continue to have discussions with the Blaze and our Business
community to expand on ideas of how we can promote our local businesses,
attended a ribbon cutting last Saturday for Croton Grille, and another ribbon
cutting for Croton Children’s and Family Counseling Center will be held on
Saturday, on March 4th the Planning Board met and they are continuing to
work on the LOT A, 1 Croton Point Avenue Site Plan, met last week with
Croton 100, where they talked about their second quilt that will focus on our
train station solar array, on March 19 we will be working collectively on our
legislative document to Albany. Trustee Simon stated that in addition to all
the things that Carol Shanesy did in our local community, she was a
pioneering woman for IBM and her professional career was outstanding, he
also got to spend time with Chief Gagliotti at Fire Department and Senior
activities. Trustee Simon stated that the location of our Historical Society is a
lovely space and is a vast expansion from the space they previously were in.
Village Attorney Subin stated that protesting at hearings is not generally a
valid means to challenge actions taken at a public hearing, and while people
have a right to protest and a right to their voice, they do not have a right to
overturn any actions undertaken at a public hearing or at a public meeting.
Village Attorney Subin stated that he is aware of no issues with respect to a
deficiency with the Notice and everything has been done correctly. Village
Attorney Subin stated one of the things that exist via law is your Zoning
Board, and they are considered constituent agencies and constituent
agencies are constrained by Local Laws that are passed by the Board of

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 19

Trustees, the setting of a SEQRA TYPE 2 list is completely within the purview
of this Board and there are specific limits set in the Environmental Review
Law that do not allow Board’s go past a certain point in setting that list and if
the Zoning Board wants something on the TYPE 2 List, they should feel free
to communicate with the Board of Trustees and Village Manager and we can
consider that for the list.
Mayor Pugh addressed a comment with respect to the location of the
Historical Society and explained that because of requirements under the
“Raise the Age Act” which required the Village to provide new protections for
juveniles who are interacting with the Justice System, we had to make
modifications to Village Hall which prompted moving the Historical Society to
its new location. Mayor Pugh stated that the potential of moving the
Recreation Department’s administrative functions to Gouveia will open up
more programming space at the Municipal Building and whether or not that
space will be used for the Historical Society will be a decision we can consider
in the future.
Mayor Pugh stated that while we cannot guarantee an outcome with respect
to Con-Edison rates, the investment on the part of taxpayers is modest and
the upside could be tremendous. Mayor Pugh emphasized that he does not
believe Con-Edison is running out of money because of solar panels, and we
are asking the regulators to scrutinize this carefully and minimize the amount
of money they are asking to be taken from our residents.
Mayor Pugh advised that the Conservation Advisory Council held a Clean Up
day this weekend where 400 pounds of garbage was collected, on April 6th
the Scouts will also being doing a clean-up at 3pm, and on March 18th the
Green Living Series will talk about Butterfly Gardens, 7pm, at the Croton
Library.
Mayor Pugh congratulated Nora Regis on her recent appointment to the
Bicycle Pedestrian Committee and thanked her for attending the meeting this
evening.
Before closing the meeting, Mayor Pugh asked for a moment of silence in
memory of Carol Shanesy and Tony Gagliotti.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Slippen approved with a 4-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:36pm.

Village Board of Trustees
March 12, 2025
Page 20

Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

