Planning Board Meeting Minutes
April 2nd , 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of April 2nd, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Algarin, Rafael & Johnsen, Jan - 11 Observatory Drive (79.09-7-48) Accessory Dwelling
Unit Application

Homeowners Rafael Algarin and Jan Johnson were present in support of the application. They have an
existing office/studio on their property that was formerly a one car garage. The square footage of the
proposed accessory dwelling unit is 200 +/- square feet, which is smaller than the required minimum of
300 square feet, but the Planning Board has the authority to waive the size requirements. The applicants
are winding down their small business and can work from their home, so they would like to upgrade the
office/studio by adding a small kitchen, converting the space to an accessory cottage. The accessory
cottage may help to offset their income so that they can stay in Croton, or it may be a place in the future
where a home health aide could potentially stay, if either one requires medical assistance.
Geoff Haynes asked if setbacks came into play and Dan O'Connor said that a new accessory would be
need to be 10 feet from the property line, but this existing building can be used as an accessory cottage.
There is a six-foot high solid fence that separates them from the neighbor on one side and evergreen
tree screening on two other sides.
Geoff Haynes noted that the accessory cottage would need a house number and a mailbox. Steve
Krisky was concerned about the size of the proposed accessory dwelling unit and compared it to a "she
shed." The applicant was not familiar with a "she shed," but said that he and his wife wanted to grab the
moment to obtain a permit for the accessory dwelling unit. Eva Thaddeus also had concerns about the
size and thought that the space would be good short term, but hard to picture a long-term resident.
Chairman Luntz stated that the use of the space is clever, and that it is small, but it is now the law of the
Village and that although it is undersized, it is hard not to allow this.
The applicants stated that there is a parking spot for tenant parking. Regarding storage space for the
potential tenant, the applicants will purchase an armoire, and there is storage in a loft space for which
they will provide a ladder.
Steve Krisky asked the applicants if they had considered enlarging the space and they replied that they
had not.
It was confirmed that neighbor notification was sent to all neighbors within 100 feet of the property.

1

Chairman Luntz read out a copy of the resolution with conditions, including a condition that this
accessory cottage may only be rented to a single occupant.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the public and there were none.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Accessory Apartment at 11 Observatory Drive for an
accessory dwelling unit, with the three conditions that were read by Chairman Luntz, seconded by John
Ghegan, and the motion carried, 4 -1 with Steve Krisky voting against.
b) Lindsay Audin, Chairman of Groton's Sustainability Committee, Presentation on New
York's Clean Energy Community
Due to technical difficulties, this presentation was postponed to a future date.
c)

Sena, Kenneth - 15 Finney Farm Road (67.19-2-8) Accessory Dwelling Unit Application

Homeowner Kenneth Sena was present in support of the application. The applicant stated that this
accessory structure was built in 2022. The accessory structure is closer to the pool and was originally
intended of more than a gathering space, but the applicant has now added a kitchen, which makes it a
separate dwelling. The applicant stated that he was not sure when he would rent out one of the units,
but might one day live in the accessory cottage and rent out the main house, which has multiple
bedrooms that he does not need. Steve Krisky thought that this was more like two single family homes,
and the applicant stated that he has created an additional housing unit in Croton.
John Ghegan made a motion to grant approval for Kenneth Sena for the Accessory Dwelling Unit at 15
Finney Farm Road, allowing the slightly larger (835+/-) square footage than the maximum allowed
square footage of 800 square feet, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 4 -1, with Steve
Krisky voting against.

3.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Hillside Street, LLC - 123 North Riverside Ave. (67.20-4-10.01) - Amended Site Plan
Application for the removal of one additional tree
Andrew Cortese was present in support of the application. He is constructing a single-family home at
the above referenced property. There is one tree leaning across the driveway and up against a retaining
wall that he is requesting to remove. The applicant plans to plant two 1.5" caliper Pin Oak trees to
replace the one that he is hoping to remove. The applicant noted that he spoke with the neighbor who
is in favor of the tree coming down.
Chairman Luntz read the resolution and conditions.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Amended Site Plan for the removal of one additional tree,
seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 5 - 0.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes March 5th, 2024

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of March 19th, 2024, seconded by
Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

5.
•

ENGINEER'S REPORT

Historic Hudson Valley sent an update on the new billboard that is being proposed, roughly in the
same spot as the existing one that is rusting.

2

•
•
•

John Ghegan again noted the wires that were hanging around the village.
Regarding 25 North Riverside Avenue, the Engineering Office will be issuing the foundation
permit this week. Getting the foundation in will provide additional support.
A question was asked about what was being done near Wolf Road and Dan O'Connor answered
that Con Ed was doing test holes to find a location for a new gas main. It is a high priority
replacement and Con Ed is trying to find a location on Albany Post Road where the rocks are
deeper.

6.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:04 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved 4/16/24 by a vote of 5 - 0***

3

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on April 2nd, 2024 the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from Rafael Algarin & Jan Johnsen for an accessory dwelling unit on the property
located at 11 Observatory Drive and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 79.09 Block 7 Lot 48; and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the
said accessory cottage; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, Rafael Algarin & Jan Johnsen are the owners and primary occupants of the single-family
dwelling where the Accessory Dwelling Unit is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory dwelling unit meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, the accessory cottage of 200 +/- square feet of habitable floor area is less than the required
minimum of 300 square feet; and
WHEREAS, The Planning Board finds that the building proposed for the accessory cottage exists and
hereby approves the smaller habitable floor area of 200 +/- square feet in accordance with Section 230-411of the Village Zoning Code.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
Rafael Algarin & Jan Johnsen for the accessory dwelling unit as shown on the floor plans prepared for this
application, submitted February 28th , 2024, and subject to Section 230-41 of the Village Code and the
following conditions:

1.

2.

3.

Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment or accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the Building
Department confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and that they
are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and accessory cottages and will
remain in compliance. Such notice shall be provided within 90 days of the change of
ownership. Failure to timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a new application.
That, the accessory cottage shall only be rented to a single occupant as per Section 404.6 of
the 2020 Property Maintenance Code of New York State which states "A unit occupied by not
more than one occupant shall have a minimum clear floor area of 120 square feet. A unit
occupied by not more than two occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of 220
square feet.
That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit and Certificate of
Occupancy for the accessory cottage.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 4 to 1, with
Steve Krisky voting against.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on April 2nd, 2024.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on April 2nd, 2024 the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from Kenneth Sena for an accessory dwelling unit on the property located at 15
Finney Farm Road and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 67.19 Block 2 Lot 8; and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the
said accessory apartment; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, Kenneth Sena is the owner and primary occupant of the single-family dwelling where the
Accessory Dwelling Unit is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory dwelling unit meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, the accessory dwelling unit of 835 +/- square feet is slightly more than the maximum allowed
square footage of 800 square feet; and
WHEREAS, The Planning Board finds that the building proposed for the accessory cottage exists and
hereby approves the larger habitable floor area of 835 +/- square feet in accordance with Section 230-41-1
of the Village Zoning Code.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
Kenneth Sena for the accessory cottage as shown on the floor plans prepared for this application, submitted
March 25, 2024· and subject to Section 230-41 of the Village Code and the following conditions:

1.

2.

Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment or accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the Building
Department confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and that they
are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and accessory cottages and will
remain in compliance. Such notice shall be provided within 90 days of the change of
ownership. Failure to timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a new application.
That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit and Certificate of
Occupancy for the accessory cottage.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by John Ghegan, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried by a vote of 4 to 1, with
Steve Krisky voting against.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on April 2nd, 2024.

1
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on April 13, 2021, the Planning Board granted Minor Site Plan approval for a new
Single-Family Dwelling for the property located at 123 North Riverside Avenue and designated on
the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.20 Blk. 4 Lot 10.01; and
WHEREAS, the proposal is for the removal of one additional tree that is leaning over the driveway
and will interfere with trucks passing during construction. The tree is partially dead and has a
severe lean; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the amended site plan application detailing one
additional tree to be removed, submitted by the applicant on March 26th , 2024, be approved with the
following conditions:
1) That, two replacement trees (1 .5" caliper Pin Oak trees) will be planted as mitigation
for this tree removal.

In the event that this amended site plan is not implemented within three (3) years of this date, this
approval shall expire.

The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Steve Krisky, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on April 2nd, 2024.

