Planning Board Meeting Minutes
September 2, 2025
8:00 p.m.

[APPROVED]

PRESENT:    Rob Luntz
            John Ghegan
            Geoffrey Haynes
            Steve Krisky
            Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
              Daniel Pozin, Village Attorney

ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
        Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of August 19th, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2. NEW BUSINESS

   a) Eichelberger, Cody, Monday's Gift Shop - 125 Grand Street (67.20-3-21)
      Application for Change of Use from Professional Services to Retail

Cody Eichelberger was present in support of the application. The applicant reported that he has a side business making mirrors, and his wife does stationary, so they contacted the landlord at 125 Grand Street when they saw that the space was available and now plan to open a gift shop, with a focus on child focused items. The applicant noted that Upper Village Blooms, across the street, caters to a different clientele. The applicant believes that this space will bring foot traffic to the Village that could potentially benefit local restaurants.

Presently, the applicant will just use the larger tenant space on the right side of the building, but may, in the future, also take on the smaller space next door, which is owned by the same entity. The applicant plans to repaint the front facade, including both tenant spaces.

Geoff Haynes asked about the signage and the applicant reported that they would like to put decals in the window and maybe a sign above the door. The sign would be simple and would not light up. Geoff Haynes explained to the applicant that a sign permit application would need to be reviewed by the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment (VEB) and that the applicant would need to come back to the Planning Board for the sign to be approved.

The applicant would like to open the gift shop by the end of October. The exterior painting will be done prior to opening.

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Change of Use for Cody Eichelberger from Professional Services to Retail for Monday's Gift Shop, located at 125 Grand Street, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried, 5 - 0.

   b) Spring Come, LLC - 352 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-1-74) Amended Site Plan to Add Two Balconies

Property owner Li Jiang, and contractor Eddie Suydum were present in support of the application for amended site plan approval to add two balconies to the new mixed-use building that includes five two-bedroom apartments and a commercial tenant space. The balconies are proposed to be added to the rear second and third floor apartments. Dan O'Connor said that there are some other minor changes proposed.

The applicant stated that on the second floor of the mixed-use building, there is a flat roof that has air conditioning equipment. The project would add a balcony here and another one above. The balcony on the third floor would be a little smaller. An arched French doorway with glass doors has been shown on the revised plans, replacing the two windows that were proposed originally.

Chairman Luntz asked what kind of clearance was needed for the air-conditioning units and suggested that some fencing may be put around the units. There is a total of five air-conditioning condensers, three on the second-floor balcony and two on the upper balcony.

The other change to the plans is in the alley between this new building and the deli next door. The sidewalk in this alley has been depressed by six feet, and goes around the building and down to a new door at the basement level, so that the basement windows are not below grade. In the future, the applicant may apply for variances to have two apartments in the basement, but not now. To have basement apartments, the applicant would need an amended special permit, amended site plan, and a parking variance.

The building has a sprinkler system. John Ghegan asked if there would be sides on the patios and the applicant replied that there is a 42-inch parapet wall. The balcony itself is approximately 22-feet wide and will have a 42-inch railing. The applicant said that the balcony space will be a nice amenity.

The Planning Board asked the applicant to revise the plans to show exactly how the HVAC units will be laid out.

Steve Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing for the amended site plan application for Spring Come LLC to add two balconies to the new mixed-use building at 352 South Riverside Avenue, seconded by Geoff Haynes and carried, 5 - 0.

The applicants got an agreement from the Harmon Deli owners, for the alley easement allowing them to proceed with the alley work and then provide an as-built survey with the easement area shown. The final easement agreement will be filed by the applicant with the County Clerk's Office.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes August 19th, 2025

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of August 19th, 2025, as amended, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

The Planning Board asked the Engineering Department to draft a memo to the Village Board asking them to reconsider recreation fees for accessory cottages.

4. ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:40 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton, Secretary to the Planning Board

**Minutes approved, as amended, with a motion by Geoff Haynes, seconded by John Gheegan, and carried by a vote of 4 - 0, with Steve Krisky being absent on September 16, 2025**

---

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Planning Board received a Change of Use application on Thursday, August 28th, 2025, for Monday's (Cody Eichelberger), hereafter known as "the Applicant," said property owned by Hugo Iodice of HMM, LLC and located at 125 Grand Street. The property is located in the C-1 Central Commercial Zoning District and is designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.20 Block 3 Lot 21; and

WHEREAS, the proposed Change of Use is from Office Space to Retail Space; and

WHEREAS, on December 10, 1975, the Zoning Board of Appeals granted a variance for off-street parking for a retail store in the middle tenant space; and

WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA), the Planning Board has determined that this project is a Type II Action, which is not subject to review under SEQRA.

1) That, an application for the business sign shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for review for compliance with the Zoning Code. If in compliance, the Village Engineer shall transmit the application to the Visual Environment Advisory Board for their review and comment. The applicant shall then return to the Planning Board for approval of the business sign.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Change of Use application, as described on the application completed by Cody Eichelberger, Applicant, and dated August 27, 2025, be approved.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York

Rob Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Steve Krisky and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, September 2, 2025.
