Planning Board Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz (Absent)
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Acting Chairman Steve Krisky called the Planning Board meeting of June 4th, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2.

NEW BUSINESS:
a) Alessi, Salvatore, 168 Maple Street (79.05-1-3) -Accessory Apartment Application

Attorney Roseann Schuyler of Kitson & Schuyler P.C. was present in support of the application. Her
client would like to have his property legally recognized as having an accessory apartment. The
property is in a two-family zoning district, and according to Rosanne Schuyler, conforms to the new
accessory apartment law as written . It is unclear if the second unit is occupied currently. The Planning
Board asked attorney Roseann Schuyler if the applicant was living at the property and she stated that
she believed so, but would need to confirm with her client. Dan O'Connor brought up the application
which said that the applicant is living on the top floor. Roseann Schuyler stated that the property was
not currently for sale. Looking at a photo of the home, it shows that there is adequate parking. Dan
O'Connor stated that the property owner has already submitted a building permit application to legalize
the accessory apartment.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the accessory apartment application for Salvatore Alessi of
168 Maple Street, with the condition that the applicant sign an affidavit stating that he lives at the
property or intends to live at the property, as required by Village Code, seconded by John Ghegan, and
the motion carried, 4 - 0, with Rob Luntz being absent.
b) Sklar, Richard, 383 South Riverside Ave. (79.13-2-27) Change of Use from Retail to
Office Space
Richard Sklar and Mike Gelman were present in support of the application. The applicants plan to open
a new territory for Senior Helpers, a franchise which provides at home caregiving services for senior
citizens. Their territory would include Westchester and Putnam counties. At this office, they would take
care of paperwork, and interview and train potential caregivers. Both applicants have experience in the
healthcare industry.
Dan O'Connor said the first-floor commercial space was built out when the retail store was in this
location. There is an ADA ramp at the property. The applicants will submit a building permit which will
be for the construction of four walls to create an open reception area, a conference room, and an
additional office. The training room would be able to accommodate 7-8 people. It was determined that
there is adequate parking and that some people would come for training via public transportation. The

1

application included a sign permit application which the Planning Board referred to the Advisory Board
for the Visual Environment for review. The Planning Board felt that this was a needed service for the
community.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the change of use application, for MR Home Care, LLC at 383
South Riverside Avenue, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 4 to 0, with Rob Luntz
being absent.

3.

OLD BUSINESS

a) Berger, Eric, 213 Cleveland Drive (68.18-1-65) - Accessory Dwelling Unit Application
Matthew Berger of 5 O'Reilly Court and brother of the applicant was present in support of the
application. Matthew Berger stated said that the change to the plans this time was that they did a floor
to ceiling screen on all sides of the porch on the proposed accessory dwelling unit, as discussed at the
last Planning Board meeting on May 21 st , 2024. Steve Krisky asked about the height of the basement
and it was confirmed that it is full height, not a crawl space. Eva Thaddeus shared a message from
Chairman Rob Luntz which was that he approves of the plans presented at this time and recommends
that a condition is added to the resolution stating that the cellar and screened in porch remain
unconditioned in perpetuity.
John Ghegan made a motion to approve the application for an accessory dwelling unit at 213 Cleveland
Drive, with the additional condition that the cellar and the screened in porch remain unconditioned in
perpetuity, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 4-0, with Rob Luntz being absent.

b) 41-51 Maple HDFC, 43 - 45 Maple Street, Maple Commons (78.12-3-3) - Modification of
Site Plan to Remove Two Additional Trees
By report from Dan O'Connor, the developer was building two retaining walls near the pocket park, and
noticed two trees close to the wall that are not shown on the survey. If they were on the survey, Dan
O'Connor thinks they would have been marked to be removed. Of these two trees, one had a large root
cut, which injures and destabilizes the tree. The second tree, about six feet away, is close to
communication cables which could compromise the tree. Eva Thaddeus says it sounds like there is no
choice but to cut the trees, but recommended that at least one new tree per each tree removed be
planted as so many trees have been lost to this project that it would be nice if a tree or two would be
planted in remediation. It was suggested that one new tree be planted to screen the car dealership on
Municipal Place, and the second new tree be planted at the developer's discretion.

'
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the modification of the site plan for 41-51 Maple HDFC at 4345 Maple Street, to remove two trees, with the added condition that two new trees are planted to replace
the two that will be removed, with a preference that one new tree be planted to screen the car dealership
on Municipal Place, and the second new tree to be planted at the developer's discretion, seconded by
John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 4 to 0, with Rob Luntz being absent.

4.

Discussion - Adopting Planning Board Rules and Procedures

The Planning Board members discussed adopting rules and procedures for the Board which can be
found in the attached memo.

5.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes May 21st, 2024

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of May 21st, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 4 - 0, with Rob Luntz being absent.

6.

ENGINEER'S REPORT

2

Regarding 25 South Riverside Avenue, the contractor is starting to build the foundation 16 feet from the
footing to top of the foundation wall. The finish on the wall will be basically precast concrete blocks.
Dan O'Connor reported that Ralph Mastromonaco has been retained by the owner of the design center
on Albany Post Road, so the Planning Board can expect an amended site plan application. Steve Krisky
says that the lights at the property remain a concern.
Steve Krisky asked for an update on Historic Hudson Valley's shabby billboard on the side of Route 9A,
coming into Croton. Dan O'Connor will reach out to Historic Hudson Valley for an update.
There are no new updates on the ShopRite parking lot. Dan O'Connor will set up a site visit.

7.

ADJOURNMENT

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
***Minutes approved, as amended at the August 6th , 2024 meeting with a motion by Steve Krisky,
seconded by John Ghegan, and passed by a vote of 4-0 with Rob Luntz abstaining.***

3

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on June 41h, 2024, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York,
considered the application from Salvatore Alessi for an accessory apartment permit on the property located
at 168 Maple Street and designated on the Tax Maps as Section 79.05 Block 1 Lot 3; and
WHEREAS, the applicant has submitted the required documentation (application and floor plans) for the
said accessory apartment; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 100 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, Salvatore Alessi is the owner and primary occupant of the single-family dwelling in which the
accessory apartment is proposed; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment has a single access from the front of the building with a split inside
the building; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment meets the required number of off-street parking spaces; and
WHEREAS, the accessory apartment of 650 +/- square feet and is less than the required maximum 800
square feet or one third of the floor area whichever is less and more than the minimum of 400 square feet.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the application submitted by
Salvatore Alessi for the accessory apartment as shown on the floor plans prepared for this application,
submitted May 141h, 2024, and subject to Section 230-41 of the Village Code and the following conditions:

1.

2.
3.

Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to continue the accessory
apartment or accessory cottage use, the new owner shall provide notification to the Building
Department confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and that they
are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and accessory cottages and will
remain in compliance. Such notice shall be provided within 90 days of the change of
ownership. Failure to timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a new application.
That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit and Certificate of
Occupancy for the accessory apartment.
That the applicant provides a signed affidavit stating that he lives at the property or intends to
live at the property, prior to the Certificate of Occupancy being issued for the accessory
apartment.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Resolution approved at the meeting held on June 4th, 2024.
Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 4 to 0, with
Rob Luntz being absent.

1
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has reviewed an application for a Change of Use permit
for MR Home Care, LLC, submitted by Rich Sklar, hereafter known as "the Applicant,"
said property owned by KPT Riverside Realty, LLC and located at 383 South Riverside
Avenue. The property is in the C-2 General Commercial and Harmon/South Riverside
Gateway Districts and is designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
as Section 79.13 Block 2 Lots 27 and 28; and
WHEREAS, the proposed Change of Use is from Retail Use to Office/Professional Use;
and
WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act
(SEQRA), the Planning Board has determined that this project is a Type II Action, which
is not subject to review under SEQRA.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Change of Use application and
supporting documents, submitted to the Village Engineer's Office on 05/59/2024, be
approved subject to the following conditions:

1)

That, an application for the business sign shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer for review for compliance with the Zoning Code. If in compliance,
the Village Engineer shall transmit the application to the Visual Environment
Advisory Board for their review and comment. The applicant shall then return
to the Planning Board for approval of the business sign.

In the event that this Change of Use is not implemented within three (3) years of this
date, this approval shall expire.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman (Absent)
Steven Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Geoffrey Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a
vote of 4 - 0, with Rob Luntz being absent.
Resolution accepted with the minutes of the meeting held on Tuesday, June 4th,

2024.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed an Accessory Cottage application on Tuesday, May
71\ 2024, Tuesday, May 21st, 2024, for 213 Cleveland Drive, owned by Eric Berger, hereafter
known as "the Applicant," said property located at 213 Cleveland Drive, and designated on the
Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 68.18 Block l Lot 66 and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, under section 230-41 of the Village Code, the Planning Board is the approving
authority for approving the accessory cottage and hereby approves the accessory cottage subject to
the conditions specified below; and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section l 203(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Accessory Cottage incorporates the excavation and
filling permit, subject to the conditions specified below, and
WHEREAS, under section I 96-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and hereby approves the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, subject to the conditions specified below.
WHEREAS, under section 208-16(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with section 208- l 6(F) of
the Village Code the approval of the Accessory Cottage includes the approval to remove trees
noted on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Accessory Cottage application as shown on
the following documents: "Proposed Accessory Dwelling Unit" Drawing l of 6 entitled "Proposed
Plan" Drawing 2 of 6, entitled "Proposed South Elevation", Drawing 3 of 6 entitled "Proposed
North Elevation", Drawing 4 of 6 entitled "Proposed East Elevation," Drawing 5 of entitled
"Proposed West Elevation", Drawing 6 of 6 entitled "Cellar Plan," all dated May 27 th , 2024, and
prepared by Richard Vail, Architect, of Holmes New York; and "Site Plan Proposed Accessory
Dwelling Unit Sheet I of 2 dated April 23, 2024 and last revised May 18, 2024 and sheet 2 of 2 "
dated April 23, 2024, prepared by Ralph G. Mastromonacok, P.E. P.C., be approved under sections
230-41 of the Zoning Code subject to the following conditions:
I. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the colors and materials of the proposed accessory cottage be substantially
consistent as set forth in the above reference documents and described during
the meeting.
3. That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit
and Certificate of Occupancy for the accessory cottage.
4. That, the cellar and screened in porch remain unconditioned in perpetuity.
5. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application
for a certificate of occupancy.
6. That, the drainage system be approved by the Village Engineer.
7. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtain for all connections to
Village owned utilities.
8. That, any required permits for utility installation in the Village Street be
obtained from the Village Engineer.
9. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this
resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.

2
I 0. That, the following conditions are established as part of the approval of the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the Village Code.
a. That, a copy of the SWPPP shall be retained at the site of the land
development activity during construction from the date of initiation of
construction activities to the date of final stabilization.
b. That, no land disturbance work shall commence until the installation
of the sediment and erosion control devices has been completed and
found acceptable by the Village Engineer or his authorized agent.
c. That, each contractor and subcontractor who will be involved in soil
disturbance and/or storm water management practice installation shall
sign and date a copy of the following certification statement before
undertaking any land development activity: "I certify under penalty of
law that I understand and agree to comply with the terms and
conditions of the stormwater pollution prevention plan. I also
understand that it is unlawful for any person to cause or contribute to
a violation of water quality standards." Copies of these statements
shall be delivered to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
i. That, the certification must include the name and title of the
person providing the signature, address and telephone number
of the contracting firm; the address (or other identifying
description) of the site; and the date the certification is made.
ii. That, the certification shall contain proof that each contractor
who will be involved in a land development activity has
obtained training and/or certification in proper erosion and
sedimentation control practices. Such certification shall
become part of the SWPPP for the land development activity
and shall be retained on-site.
d. That, the applicable stormwater facility maintenance, inspection and
repair requirements in section 196-9 of the Village Code be
complied with, the stonnwater infiltration chamber shall be inspected
annually within 48 to 72 hours after a heavy rainfall (I" or more) to
determine that the chambers have drained. If the chambers have not
drained remedial action shall be taken to rebuild the storm water
management system and restore the infiltrative capacity of the soil.
An inspection port shall be provided.
e. That, deep and percolation tests be conducted in the area of the storm
water infiltration chambers and that an engineer's report on the soil
testing, and redesign if the percolation rate is greater than I0
minutes/inch, be submitted to and approved by the Village Engineer
prior to installation of the chambers.
f. That, the applicant shall contact the Village Engineer at least 48
hours before any of the work inspections listed in section 1961O(A)( I) of the Village Code are required.
g. That, in accordance with section 196-IO(C) an as-built plan of the
stonnwater management practices shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer.
h. That, in accordance with section 196-1 O(F) the landowner shall grant
to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in
a reasonable manner for the inspection of the stormwater management
facilities.
i. That, in accordance with section 196-11 (A) of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the full and faithful completion of all land development

3
activities related to compliance with all conditions set forth by the
Village in its approval of the stormwater pollution prevention plan.
Said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with
amount of the bond to be approved by the Village Engineer.
11. That, in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the Village
Code the following conditions are established for the approval to remove
trees:
a. That, the landscaping shown on the plan be installed prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
b. That, the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor
and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above
or as required by the Village Engineer.
c. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be
reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85%
grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on
the approved landscaping plan.
d. That, if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are
unintentionally severely damaged during construction, the
applicant will replace each severely damaged tree with a tree of
2.5" minimum caliper with the species to be approved by the
Village Engineer.
e. That, in case of a tree destroyed or removed illegally, in addition
to but not in limitation to any other remedies, another tree or trees
of comparable size, species and/or value be replanted at the
expense of the property owner, for each tree removed.
f. That, in accordance with section 208-l 9(A) of the Village Code
the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other
security payable to the Village to cover the completion of
conditions (a) through (c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the
issuance of a building permit with amount and form of the bond
to be approved by the Village.
g. That, tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and l 0:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
h. That, any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed to less
than two feet.
1.
That, no tree removal shall occur unless a building permit has
been issued by the Village Engineer.
j. That, within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals the
Village Engineer shall be notified of such completion.
k. That, the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term of
the accessory cottage approval and shall terminate upon the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
12. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the a ppr ova I o f the
excavation and fill work:
a.

That, suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall
be locked at all times when work is not being performed on the
property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control

4
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to stonnwater drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That, during construction all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom not be greater than one foot.
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented on-site
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
1.
That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site, shall
be removed from the site immediately but in no event more than 20
days from excavation.
j. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and
remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or
covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved
landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two to three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend
this period on a day by day basis due to weather events that would not
allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan shall
also include an analysis of leaving part of the basement a crawl space
to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
l. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.

5
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-IO(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a submission
of a new application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may require the
submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 1201O(E)-(G) of the Village Code.
13. That, in accordance with Section 230-41 of the Village Code, the following
condition is established for the approval of the accessory cottage:
a) Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to
continue the accessory apartment or accessory cottage use, the new
owner shall provide notification to the Building Department
confirming the new owner will reside in the premises as required and
that they are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and
accessory cottages and will remain in compliance. Such notice shall
be provided within 90 days of the change of ownership. Failure to
timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a
new application.:
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the accessory cottage, such approval and associated
permits shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of this accessory cottage
approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
JohnGhegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

A motion to approve the resolution, with conditions, was made by John Ghegan, seconded by Eva
Thaddeus, and the motion carried, by a vote of 4 to 0, with Rob Luntz being absent.
Resolution approved at the meeting held on Tuesday, June 4th, 2024.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed an application for the Modification of a Site Plan for 4151 Maple HDFC, aka the "Katz Property", hereafter known as "the Applicant." The subject
property, owned by 41-51 Maple, LLC, is located at 43-53 Maple Street in the C-2 General
Commercial/Municipal Place Gateway Overlay Zoning District and designated on the Tax Map of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.12 Block 3 Lot 3, and
WHEREAS, this amended site plan application is for a modification of a previously approved site
plan to now include the removal of two additional trees; and
WHEREAS, these two additional trees were NOT shown on the tree survey and are located near a
retaining wall for the pocket park; and
WHEREAS, on May 17 th , 2021, the Village Board (lead agency) issued a negative declaration
under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA);
WHEREAS, under section 208- l 6(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with section 208- l 6(E) of
the Village Code the approval of the Amended Site Plan includes the approval to remove trees noted
on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Site Plan Modification application as shown
on the property survey, be approved subject to the following conditions:
l. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, approval is granted to remove two additional trees as shown on the
documents submitted with this application.
3. That, two new trees are planted to replace the two that will be removed, with a
preference that one new tree be planted to screen the car dealership on
Municipal Place, and the second new tree to be planted at the developer's
discretion.
4. That all conditions of the original Site Plan Approval resolution dated August
10th , 2021 and the Amended Site Plan dated May 2nd , 2023 not modified herein
shall remain in force.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton on Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson (Absent)
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, June 4th, 2024.
Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by John Gheegan, and carried by a vote of 4 to 0,
with Rob Luntz being absent.

