Planning Board Meeting Minutes
October 1, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz (Absent)
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Acting Chairman Steve Krisky called the Planning Board meeting of September 17th, 2024 to order at
8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) Fields, Maria, Sprocket Power - 1 Municipal Place (78. 12-3-2) Amended Site Plan Croton Auto Park for Battery Energy Storage System

Geoff Haynes made a motion to open public hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 3-0, with
Rob Luntz and John Ghegan being absent.
Maria Fields, CEO Sprocket Power and Peter Fazio, Project Manager, Sprocket Power were present in
support of the application. The applicants reported that, in response to feedback from an earlier Planning
Board meeting, they submitted an amended site plan which moves the battery energy storage system
and equipment to a location near the proposed solar canopy car port and EV charging station. The
equipment will be surrounded by a fence. There will be a Con Edison utility pole placed on the north side
of the driveway, so the existing flag pole will need to be moved. Dan O'Connor said that he will send the
plans to the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Chief to review. The applicant stated that this battery is in a
container and has a fire suppression system, and, this is a lithium iron phosphate battery, not lithium ion,
so is less flammable.
Geoff Haynes stated that at the last Planning Board meeting, the Planning Board and Village Board of
Trustees were pleased with the relocation of the equipment and noted that the concerns raised by the
Westchester County Planning Board were also addressed by the relocation of the equipment.
Acting Chairperson Steve Krisky invited comments from the audience, and John & Christine Dichiara of
60 Beekman Avenue spoke and had concerns with the revised plans and the proposed placement of the
equipment as their home is the closest private residence to Croton Auto Park. Mr. and Mrs. Dichiara
noted that there are still many unknowns with this application and had questions regarding potential
hazards that this project may bring, including, "Will there be noise from the transformer"? '"'Will there be
radiation emitted from the equipment"?" "Is this a fire hazard and in the event of a fire, what about the
pollution that comes from attempts to contain chemical fires?" "Will there be additional lighting"? "What
about the underground wires?" Mr. and Mrs. Dichiara also asked about the canopies and Dan O'Connor
reported that the proposed canopies will be in an area approximately 20 ft x 20 ft and 11-feet tall at the
highest point, similar to the size of a two-car garage. The canopy will have solar panels.
The applicants addressed some of the neighbor's concerns. The applicants said that the transformer will
make noise, a low hum. The applicants could not say that there was no radiation, but noted that
transformers were ubiquitous. The applicants noted that the solar panels have low reflectivity and are

1

sloped west, toward the river. When asked exactly what chemicals would be released into the air in the
event of a fire, the applicant did not know, but said that there are best practices around this.
Steve Krisky expressed surprise that they were not building a larger canopy area, and the applicant said
that was the original concept, but in part, one of the reasons was that to downsize that battery and solar
together can control the cost.
Steve Krisky said Groton's Conservation Advisory Council is working with the village to establish Dark
Skies protocols within Groton's village code. (There already is a national movement & Cortlandt has
recently passed a brand-new set of Dark Skies code, and hoped that someone would speak the owner
of the Auto Park about the current lighting so that it could maybe be retrofitted to lessen the "spill light" or
"bleed light" to provide some benefit for the neighbors. Dan O'Connor said that he would speak with the
owner of Croton Auto Park.
The applicants said that there is no landscape plan as all the equipment will be on the pavement, but
offered that the canopy itself will block the view of some of the equipment. Goeff Haynes noted the line
of existing trees near where the equipment will be placed and wondered if that could be extended. The
applicant did say that the fence around the equipment will be green and Eva Thaddeus remarked that if
there was concern about a fire, surrounding the area with trees would not be a good idea. Dan
O'Connor reiterated that he will speak with the Croton Fire Department, advise them of the plans, and
invite them out to the site.
The neighbors spoke again and asked why the plans were changed and they were told that both the
Planning Board and Westchester County Planning Board thought it would be obtrusive to the entire
community at the original location. In the revised plan, the equipment will be surrounded by the
dealership. It was noted that the battery and transformer are approximately seven-feet high and the
surrounding fence will be approximately seven or eight-feet high.
Arthur Aguilar, homeowner from 62 Beekman Avenue spoke and said that it sounds like it's a done deal.
Mr. Aguilar wondered why the current location was chosen for the equipment and thought that the auto
park had more than enough space for the equipment to go elsewhere. Dan O'Connor reported that the
current location meets the zoning requirements.
Noting that there were no additional comments from the audience, Geoff Haynes made a motion to close
the public hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 3-0, with Rob Luntz and John Ghegan
being absent. Dan O'Connor committed to sharing the plans with the fire department and schedule a
site visit.
Acting Chairperson Steve Krisky said that voting on this application will be tabled until the next meeting
so that there will be time to hear back from the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department regarding the
neighbor's concerns. Steve Krisky would also like to hear something back about the light issues.

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Holcomb, Helen, 62 Young Avenue (79.13-1-41) Application for Approval of an
Accessory Cottage

Architect Julie Evans is present in support of the application. The project is a garage conversion to an
accessory cottage with a little expansion of the footprint. The goal of the project is for the owner to age in
place while her daughter and son in law move back to the home to assist with her care. The new part of
the building falls within the setback requirements. There will be a new, small porch, new pathway to
driveway, a new, small cultec system. The new section of the project will conform to the NY Stretch Code.
There is room for two cars in the existing driveway.

2

The loft space will not be habitable space. The loft space will be storage, accessed by a rolling ladder,
and it may be used for mechanicals. The accessory cottage will be all electric, with a heat pump and on
demand hot water. They will need to run a new sewer line that will connect to the main house.
Erica Lauden of 68 Young Avenue and 124 Penfield Avenue spoke in favor of this application. Erica
Lauden believes that it is not too big and fits in with the character.
Geoff Haynes asked about the timing of the project and when it would get underway. The applicant said
that the intention is to begin the project shortly. Geoff Haynes asked the applicant to make sure that a
second car fits in the driveway, without blocking the sidewalk. The applicant said that they will measure it
out and take down the gate if they needed to.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the resolution, as written, for an accessory cottage at 62 Young
Avenue for Helen Holcomb, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried 3 - 0 with Rob Luntz and John
Ghegan being absent.

4. OLD BUSINESS
a)

MAF Realty (Mark Franzoso) 74 Grand Street (78.8-6-59) - Extension of Minor Site
Plan Approval

b) MAF Realty (Mark Franzoso) 78 Grand Street (78.8-6-56) - Extension of Minor Site Plan
Approval
Steve Krisky asked if there were any code changes since the original minor site plans were approved
and Dan O'Connor said that there were, but the applicant would be required to comply with the building
code that is in effect when the building permit is issued. Dan O'Connor said that these sites were part of
the Croton Meadows subdivision, where some land was given to the Village, so there would be no
recreation fee involved.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to pass the resolution to extend the minor site plan application for 74
Grand Street for two years, with the condition that a landscape plan be provided as part of the building
permit application or as part of the next extension application, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 3
- 0, with Rob Luntz and John Ghegan being absent.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to pass the resolution to extend the minor site plan application for 78
Grand Street for two years, with the condition that a landscape plan be provided as part of the building
permit application or as part of the next extension application, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 3
- 0, with Rob Luntz and John Ghegan being absent.
5. APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes September 17th, 2024
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of September 17th, 2024, as
amended, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and John Ghegan
being absent.
6. ADJOURNMENT
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the Planning Board meeting
adjourned, at 10:00 p.m. with a vote of 3 - 0, with Rob Luntz and John Ghegan being absent.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
***Minutes approved, as amended, with a motion by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by John Ghegan,
and carried 3-0, with Rob Luntz and Steve Krisky being absent on 10115124***

3

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed an Accessory Cottage application on Tuesday, October
1st, 2024, for 62 Young Avenue, owned by Helen Holcomb, hereafter known as "the Applicant,"
said property located at 62 Young Avenue, and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block I Lot 41 and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
WHEREAS, under section 230-41 of the Village Code, the Planning Board is the approving
authority for approving the accessory cottage and hereby approves the accessory cottage, with
approximately 469 square feet of habitable floor area, subject to the conditions specified below;
and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section l 203(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Accessory Cottage incorporates the excavation and
filling permit, subject to the conditions specified below, and
WHEREAS, land disturbance activity is under 5000 sq-ft as such will be approved by the
stormwater management officer; and
WHEREAS, no trees are being removed, and therefore no tree removal approval is required, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Accessory Cottage application as shown on
the following documents: "Holcomb Residence Accessory Cottage" Drawing 1 of 4 entitled "T-1
Proposed Site Plan, dated September 22, 2024" 2 of 4, entitled "EC-I Existing Construction", dated
September 12, 2024, Drawing 3 of 4 entitled "A-1, First Floor Plan, Schematic Building Section,
Loft Plan, and Roof Plan", dated September 12, 2024, Drawing 4 of 4 entitled "A-2, North, West,
South and East Elevations," dated September 12, 2024, prepared by Julie Evans, Architecture, of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York; be approved under sections 230-41 of the Zoning Code subject to
the following conditions:
I. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, the colors and materials of the proposed accessory cottage be substantially
consistent as set forth in the above reference documents and described during
the meeting.
3. That, the applicant applies to the Building Department for a building permit
and Certificate of Occupancy for the accessory cottage.
4. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any
framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application
for a certificate of occupancy.
5. That, the storm water drainage system and erosion and sediment control
management plan be approved by the Village Engineer.
6. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtain for all connections to
Village owned utilities.
7. That, any required permits for utility installation in the Village Street be
obtained from the Village Engineer.
8. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this
resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.
9. That, in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the approval of the
excavation and fill work:

a.

That, suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided to
guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates shall

2
be locked at all times when work is not being performed on the
property.
b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to storm water drainage,
water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That, during construction all excavations shall be drained so that any
standing water at the bottom not be greater than one foot.
d. That, any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all fill
from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That, appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented on-site
and on access roads and any traveled areas used in connection with
any excavation and/or filling work to protect the public and
surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That, removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with the
orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not unreasonably
impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That, to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in before
permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by the
Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That, provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
i. That, any excess soil from the excavation not to be used on site, shall
be removed from the site immediately but in no event more than 20
days from excavation.
J. That, all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered
with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and
remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or
covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved
landscaping plan.
k. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day
if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required,
a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two to three-week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend
this period on a day by day basis due to weather events that would not
allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan shall
also include an analysis of leaving part of the basement a crawl space
to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
I. That, in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said bond
to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and
form of the bond to be approved by the Village.

3
m. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be pennitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday
and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and I 0:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.
n. That, there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
pennitted.
o. That, the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling operations
during the tenns of this approval if in its opinion such additional
reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That, the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building pennit and subject to termination or renewal as specified in
section 120-1 O(A) of the Village Code.
q. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if detennined to be a substantial revision a submission
of a new application to the Planning Board shall be required.
r. That, following the completion of the work the applicant shall submit
a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design professional
to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may require the
submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be suspended
or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in section 1201O(E)-(G) of the Village Code.
I 0. That, in accordance with Section 230-41 of the Village Code, the following
condition is established for the approval of the accessory cottage:
a) Upon a change in ownership, should the new owner desire to
continue the accessory apartment or accessory cottage use, the new
owner shall provide notification to the Building Department
confinning the new owner will reside in the premises as required and
that they are aware of the laws regarding accessory apartments and
accessory cottages and will remain in compliance. Such notice shall
be provided within 90 days of the change of ownership. Failure to
timely file will result in a revocation of the accessory apartment or
accessory cottage approval and the new owner will have to make a
new application.:
Unless a building pennit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the accessory cottage, such approval and associated
pennits shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of this accessory cottage
approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chainnan (Absent)
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
A motion to approve the resolution, with conditions, was made by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff
Haynes, and carried, by a vote of 3 to O, with Rob Luntz and John Ghegan being absent.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board had approved a Minor Site Plan application for a single-family
dwelling on Tuesday, December 8, 2015, for MAF Realty, hereafter known as "the Applicant," said
property located at 74 Grand Street, and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 78.8 Block 6 Lot 59; and
WHEREAS, on February 26, 2019, the Applicant requested an initial extension of the expiration
date of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of two years from December 9, 2018 to an
expiration date of December 8, 2020 and was granted an extension of one year to expire on
December 8, 2019, and
WHEREAS, on October 15, 2019, the Applicant requested a second extension of the expiration
date of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of one year from December 8, 2019 to an expiration
date of December 8, 2020 and was granted an extension of one year to expire on December 8, 2020,
and
WHEREAS, on December 8, 2020, the Applicant requested a third extension of the expiration date
of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of one year from December 8, 2020 to December 8,
2021,and
WHEREAS, on November 1, 2021, the Applicant requested a fourth extension of the expiration
date of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of one year from December 8, 2021 to December
8,2022,and
WHEREAS, on December 13, 2022, the applicant obtained a fifth extension of the expiration date
of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of two years from December 8th , 2022 to December 8,
2024,and
WHEREAS, on October 1, 2024, the Applicant obtained a sixth extension of the Minor Site Plan
approval for a period of two years, to expire on December 8, 2026.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Minor Site Plan, and all the conditions
therein, as previously submitted and approved on December 8, 2015, be granted an extension of
two years to expire on December 8, 2026.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman (Absent)
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried by a vote of 3 - 0,
with John Ghegan and Rob Luntz being absent, at the meeting held on Tuesday October 15', 2024.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board had approved a Minor Site Plan application for a single-family
dwelling on Tuesday, December 8, 2015, for MAF Realty, hereafter known as "the Applicant," said
property located at 78 Grand Street, and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 78.8 Block 6 Lot 56; and
WHEREAS, on February 26, 2019, the Applicant requested an initial extension of the expiration
date of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of two years from December 9, 2018 to an
expiration date of December 8, 2020 and was granted an extension of one year to expire on
December 8, 2019, and
WHEREAS, on October 15, 2019, the Applicant requested a second extension of the expiration
date of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of one year from December 8, 2019 to an expiration
date of December 8, 2020 and was granted an extension of one year to expire on December 8, 2020,
and
WHEREAS, on December 8, 2020, the Applicant requested a third extension of the expiration date
of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of one year from December 8, 2020 to December 8,
2021,and
WHEREAS, on November I, 2021, the Applicant requested a fourth extension of the expiration
date of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of one year from December 8, 2021 to December
8,2022,and
WHEREAS, on December 13, 2022, the applicant obtained a fifth extension of the expiration date
of the Minor Site Plan approval for a period of two years from December 81h, 2022 to December 8,
2024,and
WHEREAS, on October I, 2024, the Applicant obtained a sixth extension of the expiration date of
the Minor Site Plan approval for the period of two years from December 8111, 2024 to December 8,
2026.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Minor Site Plan, and all the conditions therein,
as previously submitted and approved on December 8, 2015, be granted an extension of two years
to expire on December 8, 2026.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman (Absent)
John Ghegan (Absent)
Steven Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried by a vote of 3 0,
with John Ghegan and Rob Luntz being absent, at the meeting held on Tuesday, October !st,
2024.

