MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, April 27, 2025 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Absent:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coordinator)
Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Carly Shanks
Len Simon (Village trustee)
Cheryl Wong (reported prior to meeting start)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): none
Announcements: Earth Day tabling: The May 3 event at Senasqua Park runs from 11
AM to 4 PM (the first shift starts at 10 AM to provide setup time). Below is the staffing
schedule. Please be on time for your shift. Our banner and exhibit will be at the
covered picnic table at the park entrance. These committee members agreed to the
following shifts:
- 10 AM to noon: Lindsay and Dan
- noon to 2 PM: Ashley + son, early arrival by Carly, Jon until 12:45 PM
- 2 to 4 PM: Carly and Dave
Table staffers are advised to dress warmly due to gusty winds from the river side.
- EV/EVSE/RD
Len updated us on the Croton e-bike project. A master agreement between the Village
and Project Mover (holder of the grant for the project) is almost done. There will be 6
e-bike sites in the Village, 5 of which will be on municipal property, with the other
being the Library. The bikes were purchased before the Trump tariffs went into effect.
Len is working on the project’s rollout, which is expected in June or July.
DEC approved the RFP for the train station EV charger project. The RFP is scheduled
for release 5/1/25 with bids due 6/6/25. A mandatory site meeting is set for Thursday,
May 9. Work would run through the summer with completion by Labor Day.
On 4/9/25, Lindsay asked Bryan Healy and Frank Balbi what technical information or
references they would need (other than was sent to them on 3/21/25) to consider
renewable diesel (RD) as an alternative to standard diesel for the Village’s diesel
trucks. Bryan indicated that staff are still reviewing the data.
- Earth Day textile recycling event
1

Cheryl reviewed her plans for her Earth Day textile recycling booth. She has produced
and is distributing a flyer. She secured a banner and canopy, has bins for the clothing,
and a commitment from CAC for both a table and chairs. She has volunteers for table
staffing. She will request a Village eblast announcement to go out this week. Members
are reminded to bag and bring used clothing and fabrics to her booth.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: As of late March, all underside canopy lights are now on.
Latest projection for full startup is early June, pending finalization of Madison Energy
purchasing the project and inverter commissioning. Cleanup of the site is proceeding.
Len noted that the Village has finally begun receiving the $485,000/yr
(~$40.4K/month) rent from the project.
DPW solar parking canopy: Village staff are reviewing the draft RFP. On 3/11/25,
NYSERDA OKed using grant funding for SW’s “Municipal Solar” project mgt. (PM)
program to facilitate the installation. A draft agreement was sent to Bryan Healy for his
review 4/21/25. If accepted, Leo Wiegman of SW would provide the PM services, the
cost of which would be capped at $4,000. Design changes to another project covered
by the same grant will save more than that amount.
SW new residential Solarize program: Carly reviewed SW’s new web page for the
program at https://sustainablewestchester.org/residential-solarize/. On 4/14/25, she
saw it as generally acceptable, but lacking in information on financing and contractor
vetting issues. She expressed concerns about cost uncertainties due to tariffs.
On 4/15/25, SW’s Leo Wiegman provided an advance copy of a program document
that “invite[s] your municipality to participate in the Residential Solarize 2025
campaign... Municipalities that have responded to us by noon, Friday, April 25,
2025, may, at their option, be incorporated into our Press Release detailing the launch
of Residential Solarize 2025... The campaign will be announced via press release on
Monday, April 28, 2025, and continue for the rest of 2025.” It included an extensive
memo addressing many issues that also raised two that need attention before getting
on board with the program.
Lindsay reviewed those issues, and concluded that we should instead hold off joining
or promoting the program until we saw it in action. Carly would be the “guinea pig”
since she is already planning on pursuing solar at her home. As she experiences its
rollout, she will advise on how various issues were resolved. We could then become
comfortable with suggesting that other Croton residents get involved.
- Heat Pumps
Washington firehouse garage HPs: To verify that the building has sufficient
electrical service capacity to accommodate the proposed equipment, Jon is reviewing
pics and data provided by Lindsay. Jon will also adjust the refrigerant spec language
in the draft RFP to ensure an up-to-date choice is made. Dan agreed to review photos
of power panels to assess the capacity issue. [Lindsay sent him the pics 4/27/25.]
2

Harmon firehouse rooftop HPs: The project has two parts. First, a single unit was
be installed as part of the construction of the EMS addition. Second, six HPs would
replace the six 25-year old RTUs atop the main building. NYSERDA funding is in hand
for both parts but, due to issues with timely completion, a VRF heat recovery RTU will
instead be installed atop the addition. After dialogue with Village staff, Lindsay was
assured that - once we get to the main part of the project - only HPs will be installed.
Design development for solar panels atop the addition found that, once the HVAC unit
is installed, there will be insufficient room for solar panels due to a code requirement
for a 10-foot buffer space inside the site’s perimeter. Otherwise, a railing would be
needed that would balloon the cost without adding much PV capacity. But on the main
roof, that will not be a problem building due to its size and shape.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
Len asked Bedford regarding its proposed (in February) effort to lobby Mike Lawler
(our House Rep.) to ensure DirectPay credits remain available to help municipalities
fund their energy projects. However, no action was ever taken by Bedford. Len agreed
to query the Westchester Municipal Officials Association (WMOA) regarding which (if
any) munis in the County have already received a DirectPay reimbursement. If an
example exists for a successful payment, we could use it as a template for our own
later DirectPay submissions.
At issue for us is ~$100K in DirectPay credits we will seek for the solar projects at
DPW and the Harmon firehouse. Len asked Croton’s new Village Treasurer (Genette
Toone) to update us on what efforts were in process regarding the IRS denial (in
January) of our request for a ~$20K DirectPay reimbursement for the Washington
firehouse solar rooftop. IRS had stated that the filing was “submitted too late”. Toone’s
predecessor had replied with IRS paperwork showing it should have been allowed, but
the Village has yet to receive a response. To avoid a repeat of the problem, this issue
needs to be nailed down. We await Toone’s report.
Len pointed out how 21 Republican congressmen (including Mike Lawler, our House
Rep.) had in a March letter promoted maintaining the IRA tax credits. He mentioned
that we won’t be assured until we see the “big, beautiful” federal budget bill initially
expected by June, but unlikely to be done until later in the summer.
- Other Reports
Federal issue with State climate laws: On 4/8/25, the Trump administration issued
an executive order directing Pam Bondi (federal Atty. Genl.) to “expeditiously” take
action to halt the enforcement of 3 states’ (CA, VT, and NY) laws mandating carbon
reductions. The order instructed Bondi to prioritize efforts to stop enforcement of state
laws “purporting to address ‘climate change’ or involving ‘environmental, social, and
governance’ initiatives, ‘environmental justice,’ carbon or ‘greenhouse gas’ emissions,
and funds to collect carbon penalties or carbon taxes.”
3

One of those laws may be New York’s 2019 Climate Leadership and Community
Protection Act (CLCPA). It calls for an emissions-free power system by 2040, with
70% of statewide power sourced from renewable energy resources by 2030. None of
our work is directly tied to the CLCPA.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
On 4/24/25, Brian accepted an award given
for the train station solar canopy project by
City&StateNY, a “media organization
covering NY local and State politics and
policy”. The event (its 2025 Trailblazers in
Clean Energy: Celebrating the Innovators &
Groundbreakers in New York's Energy
Sector) was held in New York City and
attended by Brian and Dan.
- New Business / Other Issues
Brian indicated that the recently passed Village budget has funding for a new (and
larger) food scrap recycling shed. He expects it to be purchased over the summer.
Due to actions needed to finalize sale of Lot A, there will no need to re-locate the
present shed for at least 6 months. He also mentioned that Cortlandt is seeking a
grant to initiate curbside scrap collection. If secured, he felt Cortlandt might share it
with Croton to the same end. Carly stated that would be great as she has issues with
the present program’s limited 3-day drop-off window. Brian also suggested that
another visit to the SMM composting facility in Cortlandt Manor could be a great way
to educate Villagers toward an expanded program once the new shed is installed.
Dave asked about education/regulation of present young e-bike and e-scooter users
who are posing safety issues, e.g., riding them on sidewalks. Len pointed out how the
Village’s program is limited to those at least 18 years old. Dave also asked about
speeding on Rt. 9. Brian said that it’s a State highway that is patrolled by State police.
The Village’s two dozen electric accounts were enrolled in community solar in 2024.
Lindsay updated us on securing the CDG $ credits for the Village’s 6 street lighting
accounts. Despite an email from Con Edison’s Ranaan Korinow last September
agreeing to initiate the credits manually on the Village’s NYPA bill (NYPA uses Con Ed
data for our billing), a review of March’s bill shows nothing was ever done, causing the
Village to (so far) lose several thousand dollars in credits. Efforts are underway to now
force Con Ed to move on this matter or else deal with a PSC complaint on it.
Date for our next meeting was set for Sunday, June 8, 2025 at 10:00 AM via Zoom (to
avoid the Memorial Day weekend and Summerfest).

4

