Planning Board Meeting Minutes
January 2nd , 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian W. Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of January 2nd, 2024 to order at 8:02 p.m.

2.

PUBLIC HEARING
a) Ordonez, Marco M&J Auto Repair 1 Corp., 485 South Riverside Avenue (79.13-2-91)
Amended Site Plan Approval for Existing Shed

The Public Hearing remains open from December 5th , 2023. Marco Ordonez was present in support of
the application. The new property owner, Andrew Cortez, agreed with the Planning Board's
recommendations from the last meeting, except for the suggestion that the parking spots in front of the
locked gate be re-striped, as he felt that this would obstruct the sight line for exiting the building. The
Planning Board was okay with not re-striping those spots. Dan O'Connor offered to work with the
property owner regarding the signage to be placed in the parking lot warning drivers to slow down and
advising drivers of pedestrians. The applicant agreed with all the improvements presented to the
property owner. Dan O'Connor reported that the property owner has hired an engineer to work on the
retaining wall.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the public, and being that there were none, Eva Thaddeus made
a motion to close the Public Hearing, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, by a vote of 4-0.
Rob Luntz read out the resolution and conditions for the approval of the amended site plan for the
existing shed.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the resolution for an amended site plan for the existing shed
for M& J Auto Repair 1 Corp., with the addition of the sixty (60) day time period to complete conditions 15 of the resolution, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 4 - 0, with John Ghegan being
absent.

3.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Metro Physical Therapy- 46 Maple Street (79.9-1-77)- Sign Permit Review

Tom Nagle of Letter Perfect Graphics was present in support of the application via Zoom. Dan
O'Connor stated that at the last meeting, it was decided that the signage above the doors would be
removed. The new proposal is to have a black background for the lettering and the wordage being
smaller. Dan O'Connor stated that Croton on Hudson Police Chief was okay with this signage. Tom

1

Nagle stated that he could cover the glass around the top and side of the front doors or not and the
Planning Board said that they would be okay with either and would leave it up to the client.
When questioning a precedent being set with windows being covered, it was decided that in a medical
treatment facility such as this, the Planning Board is okay with it.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve modification of the window sign coverage requirements, with
the following conditions added to the resolution:
a) The two windows to the right of the doors may have 100% coverage of the windows as shown
in the image submitted for this meeting (exhibit A) The existing signage shall be replaced with
the signage conforming to the signage design in exhibit A.
b) The signage on the window above the front door and to the side of the front door may have
100 % coverage at the discretion of the tenant.
seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 4 - 0, with John Ghegan being absent.
Tom Nagle stated that the changes would be completed by the end of this month .
b) Maple Commons, 43-45 Maple Street (78.12-3-3) Review and Approval of proposed sign
Jeremy Regan, Development Coordinator from Regan Development joined the Planning Board meeting
via Zoom. Chairman Luntz thought that the improvements were in line with the Planning Board's
suggestions. Steve Krisky thanked the applicant for being flexible, and the Planning Board offered more
small suggestions, which Jeremy Regan agreed to and which will be added to the resolution as
conditions.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the sign permit application for Maple Commons, 43-45 Maple
Street, with the stipulations that:
a) The wheelchair and equal housing logos become black on a white background
b) The supports become tan and are supported from the rear of the sign and
c) Prior to fabrication, the final design is submitted to the Planning Board for review
seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 4 - 0, with John Ghegan being absent.

4.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Referral from Village Board to review Draft Local law Introductory 22 of 2023, to amend
Section 230, Zoning of the Village Code concerning the provisions of solar energy and
battery energy storage system

The Planning Board reviewed the above referenced referral and had many questions, such as "What is
the genesis of the referral?" "Would this be for commercial and residential properties?" "How large are
these batteries?" "Are these batteries a fire hazard?" and many others. Dan O'Connor suggested
inviting a member of the Croton on Hudson Sustainability Committee to the next Planning Board Meeting
to share their expertise on the topic and answer questions.
A decision was made to hold this referral over until the next Planning Board Meeting and invite a
member of the Croton on Hudson Sustainability Committee to attend, in person, or via Zoom.

b} Referral from Village Board to review Official Street Map of the Village of Croton on
Hudson

2

The current Street map of the Village of Croton on Hudson has not been updated in approximately 30
years. There are new streets, such as the Arrowcrest Drive subdivision, that have been added to the
new map. Village parks have also been added to the updated map.
Additionally, the Village Board, when Greg Schmidt was mayor, named three streets at the Croton
Harmon Train Station after Croton Veterans, which should be listed on this revised map. The Planning
Board believes that the gates on Upper North highland Place and at Half Moon Bay should be included
on the map. Also, a portion of Elliott Way is missing and driveways at Half Moon Bay should be omitted
from the map.
5.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes December 19th, 2023

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of December 19th, 2023, as
amended, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 - 0.
6.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:37 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Approved, as amended on January 16th , 2024 by a vote of 4 - 0, with Eva Thaddeus being absent.***

3

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on December 5th, 2023 and December 19th , 2023, the Planning Board held a
public hearing on an Amended Site Plan application for an existing shed submitted by
Marco Ordonez for M & J Auto Repair 1 Corp., hereafter known as "the Applicant." The
subject property is located at 485 South Riverside Avenue and designated on the Tax
Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 2 Lot 91; and
WHEREAS, the proposal is for the legalization of an existing shed for the storage of a
compressor, used oil, oil filters, and used anti-freeze and other equipment and supplies;
and
WHEREAS, the amended site plan application was first reviewed on November 21 st ,
2023 prior to scheduling a public hearing on December 5th , 2023; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 200 feet has been duly executed, and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required, and
WHEREAS, a Special permit was issued to M & J Auto Repair 1 Corp. by the Village
Board of Trustees on December 4th , 2023 to operate a motor vehicle repair garage
including an existing 6' x 12' shed to store various equipment and supplies.
WHEREAS, the Special Permit issued by the Village Board of Trustees included the
following condition: That, site improvements addressing the potential conflict between
pedestrians entering and exiting the Straddles business and vehicles entering and exiting
the M and J Auto Repair 1 business be incorporate into the amended site plan. The
Planning Board shall consider the relocation of the entrance to the M & J Auto Repair
business to a location north of the current gate opening in addition to other improvements
deemed appropriate by the Planning Board. The Planning Board as part of their
amended site plan approval shall establish a reasonable time frame for the completion of
the site improvements.
WHEREAS, the Public Hearing was closed on January 2nd, 2024; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the amended site plan application as
shown on photographs entitled "Exhibit A Shed", submitted by Marco Ordonez, Owner of
the M & J Auto Repair 1 Corp.; be approved, subject to the following conditions:

1. That, the vehicle entrance to the M and J Auto Repair 1 business be
relocated to just north of the current gate opening and the necessary
removals/modification to the existing fence be made to accommodate
the new access and the current gate be modified as required and
remain locked.
2.

That, the pavement be restriped in front of the locked gate to show a
no parking area and a no parking anytime sign be installed.

3.

That, additional cross hatch striping, 6 feet wide minimum, be installed
in front of the main access door to Straddles from the corner of the
building to the fence. And steel 4" bollards be installed at 6 foot
maximum spacing.

4.

That signage be installed at the entrances from South Riverside
Avenue warning drivers of pedestrians crossing and to slow down.

5.

That, the four parking spaces removed be relocated to the storage
area.

6.

That the improvements specified in the above conditions 1-5 be
completed within 60 days of the date of this resolution.

7.

That, the applicant, after receiving amended site plan approval from
the Planning Board shall apply to the Building Department no later
than 30 days after Planning Board approval, for a building permit and
certificate of occupancy for the existing shed.

Unless the above conditions are completed by the dates specified above or as extended
by the Planning Board, this approval shall become null and void.
Any application for an extension of this site plan approval shall be made one month prior
to the compliance dates specified in the conditions above.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan (Absent)
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried by a vote
of 4 to 0, with John Ghegan being absent.

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on January 2nd, 2024.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed a sign application on Tuesday, December 19, 2023 and
January 2, 2024, submitted by Letter Perfect Graphics on behalf of Metro Physical Therapy,
hereafter known as "the Applicant," on property located at 46 Maple Street. The property is in the
C-2 Zoning and Municipal Place Gateway Overlay Zoning Districts and designated on the Tax Map
of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.09 Block 1 Lot 77; and
WHEREAS, The Village Zoning Code regulates signage including window signs. As per section
230-44-0 of the Village Code, "The combination of permanent and temporary signage applied to or
placed within two feet of the interior of any given window shall be considered part of the signage in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Further, in no event shall permanent window signage
exceed 25% of the window on or within which it is located' .
WHEREAS, the applicant has installed window signage that exceeds the maximum coverage
amount.
WHEREAS, the Planning Board has the authority to grant approval for modifications of the sign
requirements in the Village's Zoning Code as stated in Section 230-44(0) if strict compliance with
the requirements of said code would cause unusual hardship or difficulty because of the specific
circumstances of a particular situation; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board received comments on the window signs from the Advisory Board
on the Visual Environment and the Croton on Hudson Police Chief.
WHEREAS, the Planning Board finds that strict compliance with the requirements of Section 23044-0 in the Village Code does create difficulty due to the nature of the business (Physical Therapy)
and floor plan layout.
WHEREAS, the modification of signage requirements is considered a Type II Action under the State
Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board finds that the public interest will
be protected and that the modifications listed below will be consistent with the spirit and intent of
Chapter 230 of the Village Code. The Planning Board hereby modifies the signage requirements in
section 230-44-0 of the Village Code as follows:

1. The two windows to the right of the doors may have 100% coverage of the windows as
shown in the image submitted for this meeting (exhibit A). The existing signage shall be replaced
with the signage conforming to the signage design in exhibit A.
2. The 100% signage on the window above the front door and to the side of the door may have
100% coverage at the discretion of the tenant..
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Geoffrey Haynes, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried by a vote of 4 to 0,
with John Ghegan being absent.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on January 2nd, 2024.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed a sign application on Tuesday, December 5, 2023,
December 19, 2023, and January 2, 2024, submitted by Jeremy Regan on behalf of Maple
Commons, hereafter known as "the Applicant," on property located at 43-45 Maple Street. The
property is in the C-2 Zoning and Municipal Place Gateway Overlay Zoning Districts and designated
on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.12 Block 3 Lot 3; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board received comments on the sign from the Advisory Board on the
Visual Environment.
WHEREAS, the modification of signage requirements is considered a Type II Action under the State
Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the Sign Permit
Application titled, "Elevation view of proposed S/F sign prepared by artfx of Bloomfield, CT and dated
December 21 st , 2023 with the following conditions:
1) That the wheelchair and equal housing logos become black on a white background and,
2) That the supports that connect the middle portion of the sign to the posts become tan
and are attached to the rear of the sign,
3) That prior to fabrication, the final design shall be submitted to the Planning Board for
review.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan (Absent)
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried by a vote of 4 to 0, with
John Ghegan being absent.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on January 2nd, 2024.

