Croton Conservation Advisory Council
Minutes
October 8 , 2024
Attendance: Halle, Steve, John, Rachel, Sherry, Nora, Brian Pugh, Terry, Eva, Ed
Riely
Recording Secretary
Schedule for the next few months:
October Terry
November Lance
December Rachel
January Sherry
February Halle
Approval of September Minutes
One revision per Steve regarding leaf blowers - to add language that landscapers
hired by the village should use battery blowers only - not gas powered.
The September minutes were approved.
Dark Skies/Light Pollution Update
● Sherry volunteered to request that the Gazette include a notice of the
Green Living Series event scheduled for Tuesday, Oct 29 7-8:30 at the
library.
● sherry to post fliers at ShopRite, Diner, Black Cow
● Nora to add event to village calendar of events email
From Lance:
●
●
●
●
●

Our Event is confirmed and ready for this Oct 29th at the Croton Library
Our Speaker is confirmed and will cover a broad spectrum of Dark Skies topics,
including an introduction to the challenge and suggestions on remediation. There will
be a video presentation of this topic
We will have handouts and flyers.
We will publish the event information out again to the Croton community via the
Chronicle
After this event, we will focus on suggestions for lighting improvements for village
public facilities and potential village ordinance suggestions.

Gas-powered leaf blowers:

● Rachel shared her research - what villages have regulation, Larchmont,
Irvington, Bedford - full-time. Others partial year. she spoke to officials in
Bedford and White Plains - their DPW uses battery blowers only.
● to create a leaf blower committee - members: Rachel, Sherry, Terry. The
intent is to advance regulation (by including a ‘step-down’ gradual
approach) and to educate the public on alternatives.
CLEAN:
● train station clean-up involved 26 people - yielding 18 bags of trash
● discussed a ‘community service fair’ that will involve schools
GARDEN CLUB:
● Habitat Garden Plaques
Halle brought a sample of the Pollinator Pathway plague. A CCAC label will be put
on the back. A stake will need to attached so the plaque can be put in the ground.
The total price would be approximately $20 a piece.
Confirmed to take funds from CAC budget
● Closing activities for season scheduled for October 14.
● winter programming to be scheduled
TRAILS:
● Last clean-up on Sep 14
● Next clean-up in November
REPAIR CAFE:
● January 18 is snow date
BEE CITY CERTIFICATION:
Mayor asked if CAC made any efforts around 2019 for croton to be a ‘Bee City’?

Next meeting November 12

