MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, June 8, 2025 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coord.)
Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (comm. gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Carly Shanks
Len Simon (Village trustee)
Cheryl Wong

Absent:

[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): Edwin Adkins, Senior Research Associate, Columbia University
Announcements:
Thank you to all who staffed the 5/3/25 Earth
Day table. Thank you to Dave for the Earth Day
pics. Despite the sudden evacuation due to an
impending storm, attendance was very good.
Cheryl’s successful textile collection booth took
in 1,283 pounds of donated fabrics. Two other
groups (Buy Nothing and the Girl Scouts) were
also collecting textiles at the event. For next
year’s Earth Day, Cheryl will work with them.
On 5/29/25, at the annual meeting of the NY
Conf. of Mayors (NYCOM) in Lake George,
Bryan Healy and Paula DiSanto (Village
Clerk/Deputy Manager) accepted a Local
Government Achievement Award for the solar
canopy project.
- EV/EVSE/RD
Len said that the e-bike project would officially
be launched in Croton on 7/11/25. The bikes
were bought before the Trump tariffs went into
effect. On 6/12/25, a public hearing will be held
on adopting legislation for the program (see
page 2 for Len’s Summerfest pic of the e-bike
display). To inform the community, a video is in
process for posting at the Village website.
The 5/9/25 mandatory site meeting for electrical contractors on the train station EV
charger project drew 3 of them. To ensure that many MWBE and veteran-owned
1

contractors would get to bid (as per NY DEC
rules), the RFP was distributed to 43 firms, 26 of
which were MWBE. Two proposals were received
and are being reviewed.
On 5/21/25, Lindsay again asked Bryan Healy and
Frank Balbi what technical data or references they
would need (other than provided to them on
3/21/25) to consider renewable diesel (RD) as an
alternative to standard diesel for the Village’s
diesel trucks. Bryan indicated that staff are still
reviewing the data.
- Solar Projects/Issues
On 5/13/25, Con Ed announced that the incentive for PV projects <1 MW had dropped
from $.80/W to $.60/W. The extra canopy incentive is still $.20/W. For our two pending
solar projects (DPW canopy and Harmon rooftop), that boils down to a loss of about
$16K. That won’t stop the projects, but it tightens their budgets.
Train station canopies: Paperwork for the purchase of the project by Madison
Energy is almost done. Commissioning of the inverters for the BESS is scheduled for
this month. Fixing various small roof leaks is in progress. Once those tasks are done,
the system’s solar power can begin flowing into the Con Ed grid. We also reviewed
several financial issues related to the project and leasing agreement.
To address a rumor that night light levels below the canopies were somehow lower
than prior to their installation, measurements (with a light meter) were taken last week
at 9 PM under the canopies and under the pole lights in the lot across the street
(which was how the main lot was previously lit). Below the canopies, levels ranged
from 6 to 10 foot-candles (f-c) while those under the pole lights ranged from 1 to 3 f-c.
Our project essentially tripled the old light levels.
A paper authored by Lindsay on the project appeared in the spring 2025 issue of the
Intl. Journal on Energy Mgt. (IJEM), published by the Assoc. of Energy Engineers, It is
publicly available at https://www.aeecenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/05/IJEMVol7-Iss2-Solar-Canopies-Can-Turn-Parking-Lots-Into-Power-Plants.pdf
DPW solar parking canopy: On 3/11/25, NYSERDA OKed using grant funding for
SW’s “Municipal Solar” project mgt. (PM) program to expedite the installation. The
draft agreement was approved by the VB on 5/13/25. On 5/15/25, Bryan, Frank Balbi
of DPW, and Lindsay zoomed on how to address the site’s tight parking situation
during construction, and settle administrative/permit issues prior to issuing the RFP.
By 6/1/25, those issues had been resolved. The (hopefully) final draft RFP was sent to
SW for review on 6/3/25.

2

SW residential Solarize program: Carly reviewed her recent positive experience
with that program (see her 5/16/25 memo at the end these minutes). She secured
proposals for a 10 kW system for her home from contractors vetted by SW.
Based on her report, plus the possible loss of the IRA 30% tax credit (see below), and
the potential impact of tariffs, the VB will review endorsing the program at its 6/18/25
work session during which Leo Wiegman of SW will present on the program.
Jon said that homeowners considering solar for their homes should be apprised as to
how the $ value of solar output could be credited on their electric bills. The two options
are net energy metering (NEM) and Value of Distributed Energy Resources (VDER).
The first would yield the most savings, but must be specified when the solar vendor
applies to Con Edison for the change of electric service resulting from on-site power
production. If VDER is chosen, the NEM option becomes unavailable.
On 5/30/25, NYSERDA announced that the MW Block (i.e. the wattage that would
receive an incentive) for residential solar in Con Ed territory had closed. It had been
$.15/W, such that a typical ~7 kW residential system will now cost ~$1,000 (~5%)
more to install. The “Affordable Solar Residential Incentive” remains $.80/W for low-tomoderate income homeowners, but most Croton homeowners would not qualify.
As presently written, the House “big, beautiful tax bill” would eliminate (at the end of
2025) the 30% IRA 25D residential investment tax credit, 9 years before its present
sunset date of 12/31/2034. To avoid losing it, homeowners would need to get solar
work done (not just in contract) in the next 6 months to secure the credit on their 2025
income tax filing. For details, see https://electrek.co/2025/05/13/house-draft-budgetkills-the-30-residential-solar-tax-credit/
See below for more details on the House tax bill and its implications.
- Heat Pumps
Washington firehouse garage HPs: To verify that the building has sufficient
electrical service capacity to accommodate the proposed equipment, Lindsay secured
from the Village Engineer a copy of its original (1978) electrical installation plan. Dan
is now reviewing if it’s sufficient to provide the added load of a 15 kW electric boiler
and the ~7 kW of additional HPs. [Via consultation with an electrical engineer at his
firm, Dan subsequently found the service could handle 225 amps when providing 3phase 208-volt power. That translates to a peak load of about 70 kW, sufficient to
handle the both the present load and that of the proposed new equipment.] Jon
adjusted the refrigerant spec language in the draft RFP to ensure use of the lowest
readily available GWP refrigerant.
Harmon firehouse rooftop HPs: The next step is completion of the draft RFP (which
awaits Village staff approval), and scheduling the work after completion of the EMS
addition to the building later this summer. Jon pointed out that there is no refrigerant
3

issue with the proposed new packaged rooftop units (RTU) because such units have
required use of the new refrigerants long enough to assure their availability.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
Len reported that the recently passed Village budget has an additional $6,000 for
“food scrap shed and supplies” that includes a new and larger scrap shed. Cheryl
agreed to assist Keiko with the program and will send Lindsay a proposal for
expanding its scope.
On 5/2/25, Bryan Healy emailed that “The check for the Washington Engine [March
2023 firehouse solar rooftop DirectPay] rebate arrived today! A total of $20,482.42,
which included $758.02 in interest and the $19,724.40 requested.”
The application for the rebate had been submitted to the IRS in late 2024, but in
January 2025 IRS said the submission was “too late”. It then ghosted our Treasurer
after he cited IRS rules showing it was not too late. This payment may be a sign that
~$100K in other DirectPay rebates we hope to seek may yet occur, unless cut in the
developing federal tax bill.
On 5/1/25, in response to a question Len posed to reps to the Westchester Municipal
Officials Assoc. (WMOA) as to which had filed for DirectPay rebates, only 3 of the 15
present said they had done so. Croton may then have been the first municipality in the
County to receive such a rebate. Len pointed out that, if the Trump tax bill becomes
law, Croton may end up being the only Westchester municipality getting such funding.
Dan reported on his meeting with 4 NY Congressional Reps. (including Mike Lawler)
and their staffs in DC in late May via ACEC New York (American Council of
Engineering Companies. Among other topics related to supporting clean energy, the
DirectPay tax credits were discussed. Emphasis was made on our State’s CLCPA
goal for electrification to cut GHG emissions, and the $ needed to do so.
Regarding the federal “big, beautiful tax bill”, some aspects of it would impact our two
upcoming solar projects. The version that passed the full House on 5/22/25 was worse
than that previously passed by the House Ways and Means Committee. To lock in the
30% DirectPay credits, the present House bill would require construction work to start
within 60 days of passage of the final law, i.e., by late September. That’s unlikely for
one of our solar projects, and not possible for the other. The total “hit” (i.e., incentive
loss) for them would approach $100K. Lobbyists for a variety of groups (e.g., US
Mayors, solar and wind associations) are pushing for changes. Mike Lawler (our
House Rep.) voted for the full House bill.
The Senate’s version may moderate the final result before Congress’ 7/24/25 summer
recess. On 6/4/25, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee pushed for
elimination of nearly all unobligated IRA grant funding, but was silent on the IRA’s tax
credits. Len said that some Republicans in the Senate have spoken out to support the
credits. They are pushing for a bill to be done by both houses by July 4. Until we see
the final bill, we’re in $ limbo on our two solar projects. To hold onto our NYSERDA
4

grant, we may need another extension (we already got one for 7 months). It’s unclear
if that’s possible.
On 5/15/25, the NY PSC announced a five-year plan to spend $5 billion on energy
efficiency and weatherization programs that would include “$3.29 billion for non-low-to
-moderate-income customers”. Funding would start 1/1/2026 but details (e.g., what
energy measures would get funding) have not yet been announced.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
In September, all Village committees are scheduled to present 5-minute PowerPoint
shows to the Village Board on their activities. Lindsay will give a 6-slide presentation
on the committee, its projects, awards, and upcoming efforts. [After our meeting, a
draft copy of the show was sent to all committee members for their input.]
- New Business / Other Issues
On 6/1/25 John Ealer, chair of Croton’s Cons, Advisory Council (CAC), emailed that it
will this year perform a local Natural Resources Inventory supported by a NY DEC
grant. He agreed to conform it to specs in the Climate Smart Community (CSC)
program so that we can claim 8 CSC points to help maintain our Silver certification.
As per our usual summer recess, the date for our next meeting was set for Sunday,
Sept. 7, 2025 at 10:00 AM via Zoom (to avoid the Sept. 1 Labor Day weekend).
Carly’s Updates on SW’s residential Solarize program
Bottom line: Her experience with SW has been very good. She would recommend the
Village promote the program to Croton homeowners.
Two issues with the program (i.e., promotion of the Carbon Tracker app and concerns
with including lithium-ion batteries in vendor proposals) were allayed. In her dealings
with SW personnel, there was no mention of the app, and no suggestion by SW
regarding batteries. Some vendors mentioned (but did not promote) that option during
initial discussions, primarily just to inform regarding available additional incentives.
SW connected her with 4 vetted solar vendors - SunBlue, Infinity Solar, Solar Farm, and
Green Hybrid Energy Solutions (GHES) - with the first 3 providing responses. All of the
quotes were provided over zoom. They were prepared after providing them with her
ConEd bill and using satellite imagines of the house to discuss panel placement. Infinity
is the largest of the 4.
With regard to tariff impacts, vendors indicated that existing stocks of panels should
obviate tariff upcharges if customers moved quickly (e.g., in the next month or two) to
contract so present pricing could be locked in. Carly also stated:

5

1. All 4 vendors take credit cards. Solar Farm is the only one of the three that does not
charge the credit card fee. Infinity Energy and SunBlue both accept credit cards but
charge the fee.
2. None of them expect upfront full payments. They all use a payment schedule for cash
payments. For financing it would just be your monthly payment.
Payment schedules for cash purchases.
- Infinity Energy - "Our payment schedule is 10% down, 85% due at time of installation
(30-45 days) and then 5% due when system is turned on”
- Solar Farm - "The way a cash purchase works is we ask for a $1,000 deposit and then
the remaining amount due in a series of 30%, 60%, and 10% payment installments.”
- SunBlue - 10% upon signing the contract, 45% at installation, 45% after ConEd
approval.
In a Zoom call with Enrique and Leo from Sustainable Westchester, they reviewed the 3
proposals with her. They were all pretty comparable in terms of price and equipment. It
mostly came down to which company she wanted to work with. She decided to sign with
SunBlue.

6

