Planning Board Meeting Minutes
June 17, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Daniel Pozin, Village Attorney
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of June 17, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING

a) Application to reAew a special permit for a repair garage from Ordonez, Marco - M & J Auto
Repair Corp., 425 South Riverside Ave. (79.13-2-91)
March Ordonez was present in support of the application. John Ghegan reported that he went down and
checked out the area around the repair garage and it looked good.
Steve Krisky made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried, 5- 0.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience, and there were none.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried 5- 0.
Chairman Luntz clarified that the resolution should state that the special permit be valid for a period of
thirty (30) months, expiring on December 31, 2027.
Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the draft resolution for M&J Auto Repair Corp. to renew their
special permit for a repair garage for 30 months, with an expiration date of December 31, 2027, seconded
by Steve Krisky, and carried, 5 - 0.
b) Application for a special permit & amended site plan for a second story on an existing rear
dwelling from 368 South Riverside, LLC, 368 South Riverside Ave. (79.13-1-71)
Joe Lippolis was present in support of the application . Architect John Power provided updated plans that
included the recently granted variances as well as the height of the building, as the Planning Board
requested at the last meeting. The applicant stated that he plans to start construction as soon as he is
given approval. It was confirmed that this special permit will not have an expiration date, but it will need
to be renewed if the project has not begun within two years.

1

Geoff Haynes expressed concern about the possibility of parking for a second car. The applicant said
that there is only one spot. The apartment was a studio, with one tenant, with the improvements, the
tenants will probably be a couple. The applicant said that there is street parking and a municipal lot
nearby if the future tenants have more than one car.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the audience.
Michael Mamone of Young Avenue spoke and he again asked that the meeting be opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Michael Mamone also said that the audio is not good and that only portions of the
meeting can be heard. Michael Mamone grew up in this area and is familiar with this property (368 South
Riverside Avenue). Mr. Mamone believes that the neighborhood is being destroyed by overdevelopment.
Mr. Mamone said that at the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting, they said that this building would not be
visible from the street, and Mr. Mamone believes that this is not true. Mr. Mamone mentioned the
measurement of the driveway and shares the concerns about parking. Mr. Mamone would like to protect
the neighborhood from detriment.
Chairman Luntz gave the applicant an opportunity to respond to Mr. Mamone's concerns, but the
applicant declined.
Chairman Luntz said that the application for a special permit for this detached accessory structure was
approved by the Planning Board several years ago with the existing parking and the Planning Board
believes that there is adequate parking. Chairman Luntz also noted that a variance was recently granted
by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Geoff Haynes asked about the size of the available parking space, and Dan O'Connor said that you can
get a small car into the parking space provided, and it is up to whomever rents the unit to decide if their
car will fit. The applicant said that a dumpster was able to fit where the tenant parking space is located.
The applicant said that by coming onto his property to measure the driveway, Mr. Mamone was
trespassing. The applicant also said that the apartment was there for years, illegally, and the applicant
has legalized it.
Steve Krisky made a motion to close public hearing, second by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 5 - 0.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve application for special permit, seconded by John Ghegan, and
the motion carried, 5 -0.
Chairman Luntz read the resolution for site plan approval and noted that the updated plans did not
include an updated revision date, so the wording on the resolution should be revised to reflect that.
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the site plan resolution for a second story addition on an existing
rear dwelling for 368 South Riverside, LLC, located at 368 South Riverside Ave., seconded by John
Ghegan, and carried, 5 - 0.

3.

NEW BUSINESS

a) Application to renew a special permit for a 29-unit multi-family development from The Matra
Group, LLC, 1380 Albany Post Road (67.10-2-15)
Attorney Kory Salomone and property owner Anthony Matra were present in support of the
application . Kory Salomone stated that the applicant has submitted building plans that were

2

reviewed by an outside agency. The applicant is working on responding to comments from the
outside agency, and they will probably not be ready to begin construction before August, when
their current special permit expires, so they are requesting a renewal of the special permit. The
applicant hopes to begin construction in six months.
Geoff Haynes asked the applicant if there were any changes in the site plan and the applicant
replied that there were not.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to call for a public hearing for The Matra Group, LLC at 1380 Albany
Post Road to renew their special permit for a 29-unit multi-family development, seconded by Steve
Krisky, and carried, 5 - 0.

4.

OLD BUSINESS
a) WBP Development, LLC, - 1 Croton Point Avenue (79.17-1-3,4 & 5) Application for Site Plan
Approval for a five-story building with 100 dwelling units and Subdivision Approval for
Consolidation Subdivision

John Bainlardi was present in support of the application. Geoff Haynes stated that this project has been
under review for two years and the Village Boards did a lot of due diligence and are coming out with the
best that they could.
Chairman Luntz questioned the number of electric vehicle charging stations that are listed in the
resolution (4) and the thought was that there should be a requirement for more electric vehicle charging
stations. The applicant said that they will do, at a minimum, what the law requires in terms of electric
vehicle charging stations. Additionally, if the funding sources require the applicants to install additional
charging stations, they will do so.
The applicants have not thought about chargers for e-bikes. After some discussion, including input from
Village Attorney Dan Pozin, it was decided that the applicant would provide a quantity of electrical vehicle
charging stations that complies with New York State Stretch Energy Code, New York State Energy Code,
or other New York State laws or regulations, and/or the requirements of the project funding sources, and
in no event less than 10% of all parking spaces. Underground electrical conduits and associated
equipment will be installed from the garage to all future electrical vehicle charging station locations to
serve all external parking spaces on the east and north sides of the building. The plans for the electrical
conduit installation shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
If the Croton Fire Department would like fire blankets, the applicant will provide them . The Planning
Board also wanted the landscape plan to include amenities for passive recreation.
When asked when the applicant thought that construction on the project would begin, he replied that he
was hoping for the first quarter of 2026, as they need to get their funding together. By report, the
applicants are engaged with construction lenders and everything is moving in a good direction. The
applicants continue to wait for formal confirmation on their sewer tie in. Bonds will be required for the
excavation and fill and landscaping. The applicants will return to the Planning Board when they are ready
to submit a sign permit application .
Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the resolution for preliminary consolidation subdivision approval,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 - 0.

3

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the site plan application for WBP Development, LLC for 1
Croton Point Avenue with amendments to condition #11 which will now read:
That the Project includes not less than a quantity of electrical vehicle charging stations that complies with
New York State Stretch Energy Code, New York State Energy Code or other New York State laws or
regulations, and/or the requirements of the project funding sources, and in no event, less than 10% of all
parking spaces.

And the addition of condition #12:
That underground electrical conduits and associated equipment be installed from the garage to all future
electrical vehicle charging station locations to serve all external parking spaces on the east and north side
of the building. The plans for the electrical conduit installation shall be approved by the Village Engineer.

And lastly that the wording "the landscaping plan shall also include amenities for passive recreation"
should be added to condition #7.
Seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5 - 0.
b} Discussion of Chapter 116, Environmental Review, of the Village Code to update the list of
Type II actions for the Planning board
The Planning Board reviewed the draft revisions to Chapter 116, Environmental Review of the Village
Code to update the list of Type II actions for the Planning Board and all agreed to the revisions as written.
The Planning Board will coordinate with the Village Board of Trustees as there will need to be a SEQRA
review to adopt these revisions.

5.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES- Draft Minutes 0610312025

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of June 3, 2025, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 - 0.

6.

ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, Chairman Luntz made a motion to adjourn the
meeting and the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:20 p.m.

***Minutes approved on July 1, 2025, as amended, with a motion by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff
Haynes, and carried 5-0, with Steve Krisky participating via Zoom***

4

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board received an application to renew a special permit to operate a
motor vehicle repair garage at 425 S. Riverside Ave. (a.k.a. 485 S. Riverside Ave.) from Marco
Ordonez, of M & J Auto Repair Corp., and
WHEREAS, under Section 230-178(3) of the Village Code, storage or repair garages are only
permitted in the C-2 Zoning District with a special use permit; and
WHEREAS, on November 16, 2020, the Village Board of Trustees issued a special permit to M
& J Auto Repair Corp. to operate a motor vehicle repair garage at 425 S. Riverside Ave., (a.k.a.
485 S. Riverside Ave.), and
WHEREAS, on December 15, 2023, the Village Board of Trustees granted a renewal for the
special permit to M & J Auto Repair Corp. that is set to expire on June 15, 2025, and
WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA),
the Planning Board has determined that this project is a Type II Action, and no further action
under SEQRA is required .
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 200 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing on the application was opened and closed on June 17, 2025, and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board received a letter from the property owner, Carmel Riverside,
LLC, advising that he is extending the applicant's lease through December 31, 2027, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board hereby issues a special permit
to M & J Auto Repair Corp., to operate a motor vehicle repair garage for with the following
condition :
1. That the special permit be granted for a period of 30 months, from June 15, 2025
until December 31, 2027, and that the applicant submit a renewal application at least
45 days in advance of the expiration date.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on June 17, 2025.

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, 368 S. Riverside, LLC has applied for a Special Permit for mixed-use for the
property located at 368 S. Riverside Ave in the C2 General Commercial and Harmon/South
Riverside Gateway Overlay Zoning Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 1 Lot 71 to add a second story on an existing rear
dwelling at 368 S. Riverside Avenue; and
WHEREAS, the applicant received the necessary variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals
May 27, 2025; and
WHEREAS, on June 7, 2021, the Village Board of Trustees issued a special permit to the
applicant for a special permit for a first-floor residential dwelling in the rear accessory building at
368 S. Riverside Ave., and
WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA),
the Planning Board has determined that this project is a Type II Action, and no further action is
required under SEQRA, and;
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 200 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing on the application was opened and closed on June 17, 2025, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board hereby issues a special permit
to 368 S. Riverside LLC, to add a second story to an existing single-story accessory residential
dwelling in the rear of 368 South Riverside Avenue, subject to the following condition:
1. That the Special Permit shall expire automatically two years from the date of grant,
unless at such time substantial construction has begun pursuant to the approved
application. The Building Department shall have the discretionary authority to issue
a one-year extension for good cause shown.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on June 17, 2025.

RESOLUTION
368 S. Riverside, LLC has applied for Site Plan Approval for the property located at 368 S.
Riverside Ave in the C2 General Commercial and Harmon/South Riverside Gateway Overlay
Zoning Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
79.13 Block 1 Lot 71 to add a second story on an existing rear dwelling at 368 S. Riverside
Avenue;and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA), and no further action is required under SEQRA; and
WHEREAS, notification to neighbors within 200 feet of said property has been duly executed; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was opened and closed on June 17th, 2025, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Site Plan application, as shown on Drawings
prepared by John Power, Architect of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, dated March 20, 2025, last revision
dated as April 1, 2025, entitled "368 South Riverside Avenue" Sheet A-2, "Plot Plan & Zoning
Study," Sheet A-4, "First Floor Plan, Construction Plan," Sheet A-5, "Second Floor Plan,
Construction Plan," Sheet A-6, "Elevations," and other documents submitted in support of the site
plan application, be approved subject to the following conditions:

1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That, all conditions specified in the Special Permit issued by the Planning Board on June
17th, 2025 are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
3. That, the plans submitted with the building permit application substantially comply with the
site plan, architectural drawings, and exterior material and color samples submitted with the
application.
Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and
void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the
expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Steve Krisky, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried, by a vote
of 5 - o.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on June 17, 2025

RESOLUTION
PRELIMINARY CONSOLIDATION SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
WHEREAS, WBP Development, LLC, has applied to the Planning Board for Subdivision
Plat Approval on a property located at 1 - 3 Croton Point Avenue and "Lot A" in the
Light Industrial/ Transit Oriented Development Zoning Districts and designated on
the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.17 Block 1 Lots 3, 4 & 5;
and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board received an application for Site Plan and Preliminary
Consolidation Subdivision in connection with a proposed five-story, 100-unit apartment
building and associated parking (the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act, this
application is considered an Unlisted Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA) and a Negative Declaration was issued by the Village Board (Lead
Agency) on December 18, 2024; and
WHEREAS, by resolution adopted by the Village Board of Trustees on December 18,
2024, the Village Board duly approved a special permit for the Project subject to certain
conditions as stated in said special permit resolution; and
WHEREAS the Preliminary Consolidation Subdivision Map, prepared by lnsite
Engineering, Surveying & Landscape Architecture, P.C, dated March 25th, 2025 was
submitted to the Planning Board for preliminary subdivision approval; and.
WHEREAS, a public hearing before the Planning Board was opened for the said site plan
and subdivision applications on Tuesday April 15, 2025, and closed on Tuesday May 20,
2025;and
WHEREAS, by resolution adopted simultaneously herewith, the Planning Board granted
site plan approval for the Project; and
WHEREAS, under section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the
approving authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and hereby
approves the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, subject to the conditions specified in
the resolution of site plan approval; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the
application submitted by WBP Development, LLC. for a three-lot consolidated
subdivision of property located at 1-3 Croton Point Ave., as shown on the preliminary
consolidation subdivision map prepared by lnsite Engineering, Surveying & Landscape
Architecture, P.C., dated March 25h, 2025 subject to the following conditions:

1. That the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.

4909-1191-9438, V. 1

2. That the final consolidation subdivision plat and consolidation deed be filed in the
Office of the Westchester County Clerk prior to a building permit being granted for
the proposed building.
3. That, an easement acceptable to the Village Engineer be provided for Village
utilities (water and electric) along the front property line shall be shown on the final
subdivision map and the easement agreement shall be acceptable to the Village
Attorney and Village Engineer and subsequently be presented to the Village Board
for acceptance and filed in the County Clerk's Office.
4. That a final subdivision plat acceptable for filing in the Westchester County Clerk's
Office and addressing the above items be prepared. Said plat shall include all
required notes, certifications, etc. as required by applicable agencies.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that, as part of the Final Subdivision Plat approval
process, the Applicant shall obtain the necessary approval from the Westchester County
Department of Health. Evidence of approval by the Westchester County Department of
Health shall be in the form of the Department of Health's endorsement of the Final
Subdivision Plat.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Rob Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Steve Krisky, seconded by Geoff Hayes, and carried by a vote of

5 - 0.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on June 17, 2025.

4909-1191-9438, V. 1

DRAFT RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board held a public hearing on a Site Plan application on Tuesday,
April 15, 2025, Tuesday, May 6, 2025, and Tuesday, May 15, 2025, submitted by WBP
Development, hereafter known as "the Applicant," for property located at 1 Croton Point Avenue
(also referred to as "1-3 Croton Point Ave./Lot A") in the Light Industrial/Transit Oriented
Development Zoning Districts and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-onHudson as Section 79.17 Block 1 Lots 3,4, and 5; and
WHEREAS, this is a Site Plan, and Preliminary Consolidation Subdivision application for approval
of a five story, 100-unit apartment building and associated parking (the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered an Unlisted Action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act (SEQRA); and
WHEREAS, on December 18, 2024, the Village Board determined that the Project, a
multifamily residential development consisting of 100 apartments within a five-story building,
complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP and
subsequently issued a Determination of Consistency with the Village's LWRP; and
WHEREAS, on December 18, 2024, the Village Board as Lead Agency issued a Negative
Declaration under SEQRA in connection with the Project; and
WHEREAS, at the December 18, 2024, Village Board meeting, the Village Board of Trustees
adopted a resolution of special permit approval for the Project subject to certain conditions as
stated in said special permit resolution; and
WHEREAS, under section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit and in accordance with section
120-3(C) of the Village Code, the approval of the Site Plan incorporates the Excavation and
Filling Permit, subject to the conditions specified below; and
WHEREAS, under section l 96-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prepared for the Project by
Insite Engineering, Surveying and Landscape Architecture PC and last revised 4/30/25 and
hereby approves the said SWPPP, subject to the conditions specified below; and
WHEREAS, under section 208-16(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving
authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with section 208- l 6(F) of
the Village Code the approval of the Site Plan includes the approval to remove trees noted on the
site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions specified below.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Site Plan application, as shown on
Drawings (collectively, the "Site Plan Set") prepared by Insite Engineering, Surveying &
Landscape Architecture, P.C., last revised on April 30, 2025, entitled "l Croton Point" Sheet 1
"OP-1, Overall Site Plan," Sheet 2, "EX-1 Existing Conditions & Removals Plan," Sheet 3 SP-1,
"Layout & Landscape Plan," Sheet 4, "SP-2 Grading & Utilities Plan," Sheet 6, "LP-1
Photometric Lighting Plan," Sheets 7 "D-1 Details," Sheet 8, "D-2 Details," Sheet 9, "D-3
Details" and Sheet 10, "GIR-1 Geotechnical Inspection Reports;" Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan, dated April 30, 2025 and prepared by Insite Engineering, Surveying, &

Landscape Architecture, P.C.; and other documents submitted m support of the site plan
application, be approved subject to the following conditions:
1. That the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.
2. That all conditions specified in the Special Permit issued by the Village Board on December
18, 2024 are incorporated herein as if set forth at length including the requirement to install a
new fire hydrant in front of the building in a location approved by the Fire Chief.
3. That the landscape plan shall include a two-year warranty for all landscape materials.
4. That the layout of the proposed water system improvements and sanitary sewer system
improvements will be finalized with input from, and to the satisfaction of the the Village
Engineer in coordination with the Village's consulting engineer.
5. That a new address number for the property be established in coordination with the Village
Engineer, Town Assessor and Westchester County Department of Emergency Services.
6. That the Applicant submit the October 14, 2024, Traffic Impact Study for the Project to
NYSDOT and coordinate any necessary adjustments to the timing of traffic signals at the
intersections studied in the Traffic Impact Study.
7. That the applicant makes best efforts to work with the NYSDOT to receive approval to
remove all hardscape material (asphalt pavement, etc.) from the NYSDOT property formerly
leased by the Village for parking and to landscape the area after all hardscape material is
removed. The landscaping plan shall also include amenities for passive recreation and shall
be submitted to the Planning Board for approval.
8. That the applicant makes best efforts to work with the NYSDOT to receive approval to plant
additional landscaping in the NYSDOT ROW along their fence line on the east side of the
Project.
9. That the Project's Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) be accepted by the Village
Engineer, in coordination with the Village's consulting Engineer.
10. That the approval of the NYSDOT be obtained for all improvements in the State ROW.
11. That the Project includes not less than a quantity of electrical vehicle charging stations that
complies with New York State Stretch Energy Code, New York State Energy Code or other
New York State laws or regulations, and/or the requirements of the project funding sources,
and in no event, less than 10% of all parking spaces
12. That underground electrical conduits and associated equipment be installed from the garage
to all future electrical vehicle charging station locations to serve all external parking spaces
on the east and north sides of the building. The plans for the electrical conduit installation
shall be approved by the Village Engineer.
13. That a bond, or suitable security satisfactory to the Village be provided for all improvements
in the street ROW.
14. That a detailed construction staging plan be submitted to the Village Engineer prior to the
approval of a building permit.
15. That any sign application be submitted to the Planning Board for review and approval, and as
part of said application, be referred by the Planning Board to the Advisory Board on the
Visual Environment (VEB) for their review and comments, whereupon the Planning Board
shall have final review and approval as to same.
16. That the plans submitted with the building permit application substantially comply with the
architectural drawings and exterior material samples submitted with the application.
17. That the applicant shall obtain approvals from the Westchester County Health Department for
the necessary permits required for the sanitary sewer improvements, any water distribution
system improvements and backflow prevention devices.
18. That the Building Department be provided with documented sound transmission ratings of
the proposed windows and fayade materials, as well as composite attenuation calculations to
be completed by the Applicant's architect, to be reviewed and approved by the Village and its

2
4921-3287-6878, V. 1

consultants. Review and approval of these materials prior to the issuance of a building permit
will provide assurance that the required level of noise attenuation documented in the Village
Board's Negative Declaration [26-31 A-weighted decibels (dBA)] will be met.
19. That the Building Department shall be provided with a Soil Management Plan (SMP) and
specifications for the proposed vapor barrier to be completed by the Applicant's engineer, to
be reviewed and approved by the Village and its consultants. Review and approval of the
SMP and proposed vapor barrier specifications prior to the issuance of a building permit will
provide assurance that as part of the Project's construction, no impacts related to the creation
of hazards to human health will
20. That a bond or other suitable security be provided to cover all costs associated with any water
distribution system improvements. The amount of the bond shall be acceptable to the Village
Engineer and the form of the bond shall be acceptable to the Village Attorney.
21. That an easement acceptable to the Village Engineer be provided for the Village utilities
(water and electric) along the front property line and the easement agreement shall be
acceptable to the Village Attorney and Village Engineer and subsequently be presented to the
Village Board for acceptance and filed in the County Clerk's Office.
22. That in accordance with Chapter 178 of the Village Code an escrow account in an amount as
reasonably determined by the Village Engineer shall be established for the Village to hire the
services of a consulting NYS Professional Engineer to assist the Village with the inspection
of site improvements including but not limited to the construction of the retaining walls,
installation of utilities and other site improvements.
23. That in accordance with section 86-7E of Chapter 86 of the Village Code an escrow account
in an amount as reasonably determined by the Village Engineer shall be established for the
Village to hire the services of licensed professionals to assist the Village with the review of
the building plans and specifications.
24. That the following conditions are established as part of the approval of the Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the Village Code:
a. That a copy of the SWPPP shall be retained at the site of the land
development activity during construction from the date of initiation
of construction activities to the date of final stabilization.
b. That no land disturbance work shall commence until the installation
of the sediment and erosion control devices has been completed and
found acceptable by the Village Engineer or his authorized agent.
c. That each contractor and subcontractor who will be involved in soil
disturbance and/or stormwater management practice installation
shall sign and date a copy of the following certification statement
before undertaking any land development activity: "I certify under
penalty of law that I understand and agree to comply with the terms
and conditions of the stormwater pollution prevention plan. I also
understand that it is unlawful for any person to cause or contribute
to a violation of water quality standards." Copies of these statements
shall be delivered to the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
1. That the certification must include the name and title of the
person providing the signature, address and telephone
number of the contracting firm; the address (or other
identifying description) of the site; and the date the
certification is made.
n. That the certification shall contain proof that each
contractor who will be involved in a land development
activity has obtained training and/or certification in proper

3
4921-3287-6878, V. 1

erosion and sedimentation control practices. Such
certification shall become part of the SWPPP for the land
development activity and shall be retained on-site.
d. That the applicable stormwater facility maintenance, inspection
and repair requirements in section 196-9 of the Village Code be
complied with, a maintenance and inspection plan shall be submitted
to the Village Engineer or his authorized agent for approval.
e. That the applicant shall contact the Village Engineer or his
authorized agent at least 48 hours before any of the work
inspections listed in section 196-lO(A)(l) of the Village Code are
required.
f. That in accordance with section 196-1 0(C) an as-built plan of the
stormwater management practices shall be submitted to the Village
Engineer or his authorized agent.
g. That in accordance with section 196-1 0(F) the landowner shall grant
to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable times and
in a reasonable manner for the inspection of the stormwater
management facilities.
h. That in accordance with section 196-11 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (g) above, said
bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with
amount and form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
25. That in accordance with sections 208-18 and 208-19 of the Village Code the
following conditions are established for the approval to remove trees:
a. That any landscaping, shown on approved plan, be installed prior to
a certificate of occupancy being issued. That all disturbed areas not
hardsurfaced or mulched shall be covered with 3" of topsoil,
perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and remulched as
necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or covered
with other ground cover as shown on the approved landscaping plan.
b. That if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are removed or
severely damaged during construction, the applicant will replace
each removed tree or severely damaged tree with a tree of 2.5"
minimum caliber with the species to be approved by the Village
Engineer or his authorized agent.
c. That the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor
and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above or
as required by the Village Engineer.
d. That in accordance with section 208-19(A) of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
payable to the Village in an amount reasonably acceptable to the
Village Engineer to cover the completion of conditions (a) through
(c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building
permit with amount and form of the bond to be approved by the
Village.
e. That tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through
Sunday.

4
4921-3287-6878, V. 1

f.

That any stumps remaining above grade shall be removed to less
than two feet.
g. That no tree removal shall occur unless a building permit has been
issued by the Village Engineer.
h. That within 30 days after the completion of all tree removals the
Village Engineer or his authorized agent shall be notified of such
completion.
1.
That the approval to remove trees shall be valid for the term of site
plan approval and shall terminate upon the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
26. That in accordance with sections 120-7 and 120-8 of the Village Code the following
conditions are established for the a ppr ova 1 o f the excavation and fill work:
a. That suitable fencing, with a minimum height of 48", be provided
to guard any excavation greater than four feet in depth. All gates
shall be locked at all times when work is not being performed on
the property.
b. That excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a
building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control
devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village
Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to stormwater
drainage, water bodies and/or wetlands.
c. That during construction all excavations shall be drained so that
any standing water at the bottom is not greater than one foot.
d. That any fill from off-site shall be clean, containing no garbage,
refuse or deleterious matter, the Village Engineer shall inspect all
fill from off-site sources and may require testing, by an approved
laboratory, to determine the cleanliness of the fill.
e. That appropriate dust-control measures shall be implemented
on-site and on access roads and any traveled areas used in
connection with any excavation and/or filling work to protect the
public and surrounding area against windblown soil and dust.
f. That removal of soil or other material from the ground and/or
placement of fill on the ground shall not prevent or interfere with
the orderly development of land in the vicinity, shall not
unreasonably impede traffic flow, or parking.
g. That to prevent the earth of adjoining property from caving in
before permanent supports have been provided for the sides of such
excavation, any person causing any excavation to be made shall
provide such sheet piling, bracing or other methods as may be
necessary, plans for which are to be submitted to and approved by
the Village Engineer prior to any such excavation being undertaken.
h. That provisions shall be made for the temporary drainage of the
property during excavations or filling operations and for the
permanent drainage to be effective upon the completion of the
operations.
i. That any excess soil from the excavation shall be removed from the
site immediately but in no event more than 20 days from
excavation.
j. That all disturbed areas not hardsurfaced or mulched shall be
covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be
reseeded and remulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85%

5
4921-3287-6878, V. 1

grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on the
approved landscaping plan.
k. That the Village Engineer or his authorized agent shall be notified
by the next business day if bedrock is encountered in the
excavation. If hammering is required, a rock excavation plan shall
be submitted to the Village Engineer or his authorized agent for
review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations.
The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible
tirneframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock
removal operations be conducted in a two to three week period as
approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer or his
authorized agent may extend this period on a day by day basis due
to weather events that would not allow reasonable working
conditions. The rock excavation plan shall also include an analysis
of leaving part of the basement a crawl space to reduce the quantity
of bedrock required to be excavated.
l. That in accordance with section 120-7 of the Village Code the
applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security
to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (k) above, said
bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with
amount and form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
m. That excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through
Friday and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday
through Sunday.
n. That there shall be no on-site processing of fill or excavated soil or
the erection or use of any structure for such processing however,
power equipment for the purpose of filling and excavation is
permitted.
o. That the Planning Board reserves the right to impose additional
reasonable conditions related to the excavation and filling
operations during the terms of this approval if in its opinion such
additional reasonable conditions are necessary.
p. That the approval for excavation and/or filling operations shall be
valid for a period of one year starting on the date of issuance of the
building permit and subject to termination or renewal as specified
in section 120-l0(A) of the Village Code.
q. That any revision to the work covered by the approval of the
excavation and or filling work shall be reviewed by the Village
Engineer and if determined to be a substantial revision a
submission of a new application to the Planning Board shall be
required.
r. That following the completion of the work the applicant shall
submit a certification of completion by a NYS licensed design
professional to the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may
require the submission of an as-built survey.
s. The approval for excavation and filling operations may be
suspended or revoked and stop work orders issued as set forth in
section 120-l0(E)-(G) of the Village Code.

6
4921-3287-6878, V. 1

Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three
years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and
void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the
expiration date.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairman
JohnGhegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by

, seconded by

, and the motion carried by a vote of - .

7
4921-3287-6878, v. 1

