Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting
Tuesday, June 9, 2025
Present:

Debi Braddick, Emily Boglioli, John Sasso, Frances Catanio
Karen Pecora, Kyle Raum, Nora Nickleson, Bryan Healy, John
Bouchard and Mark Duncan.

Meeting Called to Order: The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. by Debi and the
May Minutes were approved
Swings @ Duck Pond & Benches: The committee mentioned that the
swings at the Duck Pond need to be looked at. John Bouchard gave an
update on the cost of a bench ($2,170 – does not include shipping). He will
look into placing the order soon.
Camp Enrollment: Mark shared with the committee that the Day Camp is
full and has 60 registrations in each session and the staff is in place for
orientation that will take place on June 30th.
Summerfest: Reviews were that Summerfest went very well on Sunday
(June 1st). One hundred thirty venders were signed up for the day and the
weather was almost perfect.
Non-Residents @ Black Rock Park: It was brought to our attention that a lot
of non-residents are going to Black Rock Park, especially when the Croton
Dam is overcrowded. The Park Rangers have been patrolling the park
frequently on the weekends to deter the non-residents.
Update on Dobbs Park: A new and updated Dobbs Park Design was
submitted by the county for the Recreation Advisory Committee to review.
The committee agreed that it was an improvement from the last design and
has more engaging play equipment for all ages.

Croton Commons Update: Debi made us aware that the naming of the park
will be discussed at the next village board meeting on 6/18.
Five Corners Veterans Update: There is no update at this time.
Memorial Benches; Mark shared with the Recreation Advisory Committee
the memorial bench application submitted by Kathy Geradi. The bench is to
be located at Dobbs Park and is for her late husband Michael J. Geradi. The
second bench is for Richard Lentz and was submitted by Amy Von Souer
and is to be located at Black Rock Park overlooking the Croton River. The
Committee looked over the applications and were in favor of both of them.
John Bouchard will reach out to Kathy Geradi and Amy Von-Souer to
discuss with them the placement of the benches.

Miscellaneous;
Adjournment: The meeting was adjourned at 8:05p.m.
The next regular meeting is scheduled for Monday, September 8, 2025 @ 7:00 p.m.

