Planning Board Meeting Minutes
January 16th, 2024
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus (Absent)

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
ABSENT: Ian W. Murtaugh, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of January 16, 2024 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

OLD BUSINESS
a) Referral from Village Board to review Draft Local law Introductory 22 of 2023, to amend
Section 230, Zoning of the Village Code concerning the provisions of solar energy and
battery energy storage system

Lindsay Aud in, Chairman of Croton on Hudson's Sustainability Committee joined the meeting via Zoom to
answer questions, and offer his expertise on this topic.
Based on their review, the Planning Board recommends that Tier 1 Battery Energy Storage Systems
should be defined as having an aggregate energy capacity less than or equal to 200 kWh and that Tier 2
Battery Energy Storage Systems, which would be any system over 201 kWh, would require a special
permit and site plan approval, and would only be permitted on commercial properties, not residential
properties.
For battery energy storage systems, The Planning Board believes that the law should require a minimum
pad height of at least 6 inches, as recommended by Lindsay Audin, for stability and to ensure that the
batteries do not get flooded. The Planning Board would also recommend that the code be written in such
a way so that any equipment should be placed in a way that it was not an eyesore, possibly with some
landscape around it, and there will need to be a distance decided as a set-back.
For Solar Panels, the proposed law mentions roof-mounted solar energy systems, but many are not
actually attached to the roof, but ballasted. For flat roofs, the law should allow for the possibility of
ballasting. This was brought to our attention by Lindsay Audin, specifically, Section 230-48 1 E (1) (a) [1],
which states that the roof mounted systems "must be attached."
Lindsay Audin also recommended that section 230-48.1 G (3) (f)[2] that "6 inches in diameter" be
replaced with "6 inches in diameter at Breast -Height (DBH).
It was also discussed that there are standards for fire detection and fire suppression built into The
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and state codes that will need to be followed.

1

The Planning Board recommends adoption of the local law with the above recommendations taken into
consideration.

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Referral from Village Board to review application from ShopRite Supermarket, Inc., for
Special Permit Renewal at 440 South Riverside Avenue (79.17-2-2)

P. Daniel Hollis, 111, Esquire, of Hollis, Laidlaw & Simon P.C. joined the meeting via Zoom in support of
the application.
The Planning Board's Amended Site Plan resolution, dated May 10, 2016 contained a condition that, "A
parking lot maintenance agreement be required for the upkeep of the landscape trees and said
agreement be signed by the landlord and the Village; That a draft of the agreement be submitted to the
Planning Board for review and comment and recommendations to the Village Board." The above
agreement was never completed.
The Planning Board believes that ShopRite is an important retail business in the Village, however there
remain concerns about a parking lot maintenance agreement between the property landlord and the
Village.
The Planning Board believes that the ShopRite parking lot is in need of maintenance and improvements,
including, but not limited to repair of broken sidewalks, maintenance of signs that are bent, on the ground
or otherwise damaged, restriping of pavement markings (crosswalks, etc.), maintenance of landscaping,
improvements to the pedestrian walkway down the main entrance, and other maintenance and
improvements. The Planning Board would like a condition in the maintenance agreement to be that the
parking lot will need to be inspected regularly and an annual report sent to the Village.
The Planning Board would like to review the parking lot maintenance agreement before making a
recommendation on renewing the special permit.

b) Fuller, Sean - 130 Grand Street (79.05-1-57) Change of Use and Amended Site Plan
Applications for Proposed Cafe/Theatre
Sean Fuller was present in support of the application. The applicant is in the process of buying the
building located at 130 Grand Street with a plan to open a venue with high quality acoustics that could
be used for kids' music recitals, serve local artists, and potentially be used as a recording studio. The
applicant anticipates performances a few times per week. The space will also have a cafe, and at some
point, the applicant will apply for a liquor license.
The applicant did a cursory parking study and included two parking spots in the Municipal Parking Lot.
There are eight parking spaces behind the building, including one handicapped spot and one
handicapped spot in front of the building. The applicant plans to ask employees to park further away
and plans to install a bike rack in the back of the building. The applicant considers his proposed cafe to
be a complementary business, so a car may park near him and visit another establishment in town.
Currently, DPW can get their trucks down the driveway to collect trash, so the applicant believes that
deliveries or band equipment could be loaded from the rear of the building, not disrupting traffic. The
applicant plans to create a new dumpster system in the rear of the building. Exhaust from any type of
cooking will go out of the back of the building. The applicant is considering adding stairs to the rear of
the building as an additional egress. The two windows on the driveway side of the building will be sound
proofed, so would not open. Chairman Luntz advised the applicant to familiarize himself with the
threshold for places of assembly and make sure that he meets the requirements.

2

The second story of the building would be used by employees for lighting or such. The applicant does
not plan to change the front fa9ade, maybe the rear if they add ventilation or an egress. They will paint
the sign on the building and have it lit by electric sconces.
When asked if this business will be for profit, the applicant stated that they are considering having the
theatre operate as a not for profit. Ideally, they would show films once or twice a month.
Dan O'Connor stated that the roof will need to be upgraded. The applicant noted that there were no
leaks after recent heavy rains, so the roof is a maintenance issue that will be addressed in the
construction project. Dan O'Connor advised the applicant that they will need additional details on the
plan, and more information on the dumpster area.
The Planning Board thinks that the proposed plan is a good one.
Steve Krisky made a motion to call for a public hearing for Sean Fuller's Amended Site Plan Application
for Proposed Cafe/Theatre at 130 Grand Street (79.05-1-57), seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the
motion carried, 4 - 0, with Eva Thaddeus being absent.

c)

Hannigan, Tom- 52 Upland Lane (67.8-2-1) Minor Site Plan Application for New House

Engineer Joe Riina and property owners Tom Hannigan and Carree Syrek joined the meeting via Zoom.
The proposed home is on a seven-acre site that is located partially in the Town of Cortlandt and partially
in the Village of Croton on Hudson. The driveway entrance is in the Town of Cortlandt, at the end of
Upland Lane. To manage the slope leading to the home, the engineer proposed a serpentine driveway,
twelve feet wide. The house will be in the Village of Croton on Hudson. The house will be served by
septic and well water for which the applicant has obtained approval from the health department.
The applicants will need approval for steep slopes, tree removal and minor site plan. The proposed
home will be approximately 2000 square feet. The applicants have hired Alchemy Architects who
specialize in design of low impact, highly sustainable homes. There will be three bedrooms, an attached
garage, and an open floor plan. They put much thought into the placement of the home and are
sympathetic to the wooded site. The Town of Cortlandt does not require Planning Board approval for
this home, but they have received copies of the plans and had some concerns regarding fire access, a
sprinkler system and tree removal. The Village of Croton will be issuing the permits, but will coordinate
with the Town of Cortlandt throughout the project.
There was some discussion regarding the long driveway that will lead to the property. The engineer
reported doing a lot of manipulation to create the least amount of disturbance, working with the slope.
Installing the driveway leading to this site is a massive undertaking. The steep slope laws are slightly
different in the Village of Croton and the Town of Cortlandt. Engineer Joe Rinna stated that one of the
steep slope disturbance thresholds has been exceeded by 2,908 square feet, which is why they are
applying for a steep slope permit. In the town, they do not need a permit, but the applicants must
prepare an erosion and sediment control plan that will work during and post construction. Dan O'Connor
offered to send an email to the engineer with the 16 factors for the steep slope application.
Eva Thaddeus was absent from the meeting, but asked her Planning Board colleagues to inquire on her
behalf about the number of trees to be taken down that were listed as being in fair condition. Joe Riina
reported that it was the Town of Cortlandt's tree consultant, not the applicant's consultant, who identified
the trees. Chairman Luntz stated that the trees that are coming down make sense as they seem to all
be either within the house plan, within the disturbed area of the driveway construction, and/or stormwater
management or septic zone.
The Town of Cortlandt wants to hear a case as to why all the trees are coming down and see a
mitigation plan as the Town has a policy about replacing trees and Joe Riina would like to come up with
a reasonable plan. Steve Krisky asked at what point would an environmental review be triggered and

3

Dan O'Connor stated that this is a single-family home, which is generally considered a Type-2 project
under SEQR.
Dan O'Connor asked and the applicants confirmed that they have health department approval for a
septic system for a three-bedroom house. Dan O'Connor asked and Joe Riina confirmed that there
were no wetlands on the property.
The Planning Board members scheduled a site visit at the property for Saturday, January 27th at 10:30
a.m.

4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes January 2, 2024

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of January 16th, 2024, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5-0.

5. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:40 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
**Minutes accepted, as amended, 2.6.24 by a vote of 5-0. Motion by S Krisky, second by G Haynes**

4

