Croton Fire Department – Fire Council Minutes
February 25, 2025

Adopted 3/25/25

JPS

Roll Call – Dinkler, Colombo Sr., Caterino
Streany, Feminella, Vlad, Powers, Skiba, Tucci, Karpoff, Gilbert
Excused: Kaplan, Russell, Sarcone, Delaney
Chief Dinkler opened the meeting at 8:04 PM with the pledge to the flag, followed by a moment of
silence. This meeting was dedicated to former member of the CVFDRDA Noreen Walsh, who recently
passed.
Special Order of Business
Village Manager Bryan Healy was present and discussed that the Manager's office has not
received Council minutes in the past four months. The council acknowledged this and said we are
working to correct the situation.
Trustee Simon noted that the Village has begun the budget process for 2025-2026, and they are
quite busy.
In a question by Vlad on the completion date of the EMS annex, Manager Healy mentioned the
current target date is September 2025.
Discussion on Washington Engine heat/boiler issue regarding the disconnect between the
Sustainability Committee and DPW plans for the new system.
Discussion regarding meeting minutes. Chief Dinkler to handle with the council secretary. The
distribution of council minutes and a list of new Wardens to be updated and Don Holder and Frank
Streany need to be added.
Warden Vlad asked about future bookings for the use of Harmon Firehouse in May by Village
organizations. The manager will advise.
Bill and Communications
Applications for membership to Hook and Ladder and two PAFs for membership to Washington
Engine were presented to the council, Charlotte Gilbert, Jon Zamora, and Vincent Flynn.
A Motion: Feminella Vlad to accept the membership applications, carried.
Letter from Chemical Engine requesting Thomas Dinkler be placed on medical leave.
A motion by Feminella, Gilbert, to accept medical leave for Dinkler was carried.
Letter read from Montrose FD inviting CFD to the Memorial Day parade. Most members will be
attending services in Croton.
Bill presented for Ex-Chiefs badges Josh Karpoff.
Motion: Vlad, Tucci to pay bill, carried.

3/31/2025 8:59 AM

Contract presented from Yonkers Military Band for Montrose, Ossining, and Yorktown parades.
Motion, Vlad, Tucci to sign and pay contract for upcoming parades, carried.
Chiefs Reports
Chief Dinkler reports.

•

Call numbers for 2024 will be delivered to the council at the March meeting. Nearly
completed with data input.

•

Please have officers to submit reports no later than the 7th of the following month to the
Chief's office. This will help the staff to stay current.

•

The first-round of 2025 physicals are coming up. Will need a minimum of 20 members to
sign up or the date will have to be postponed/canceled. To avoid paying for vacant spots.
Discussion on physicals followed. Regarding members making appointments on their
own without notification to Don Holder or the Chief's office.

Asst. Chief Colombo reports.

•
•
•
•

Fuel numbers are being issued for apparatus drivers.
Houses in good shape
Thanked members for storm stand-by.
The old refrigerator at Harmon is to be removed by DPW when the hole for the door is
opened.

Asst. Chief Caterino reports.

•

A St. Patrick's Day party is being considered as an alternative to the holiday party for
members that was not previously held; more information will follow on this topic.

•
•

Calls have been light.

•

Thanked members for standbys.

Please see the recent email on the IAR update to get call information repeated to your cell
phone.

Warden Karpoff arrived at 7:35 PM.
Note: CFD dispatched at 7:41 PM to an alarm condition at Half Moon Bay; the meeting interrupted for a
few minutes.
Discussion on email server problems with data and emails be sent to members. The chief's office
reports recent emails have bounced back with over 40 unknown/undeliverable addresses.
Discussion on allowing Captains to enter call data into IAR. No resolution.
Happy Birthday, Bill Gallagher.

3/31/2025 8:59 AM

New Business
A letter from Washington Engine read during communications requesting the Council to consider
a by-law amendment to the Article regarding membership. The requested amendment more clearly
defines each class of membership's responsibilities.
Motion: Vlad, Tucci, to send Washington's amendment request to the by-law committee, carried.
Treasures Report
The checkbook balance is $11,386.79.
There is one outstanding check.
Motion: Feminella, Karpoff to accept Treasures report, carried.
Motion to adjourn the meeting, carried.

Respectfully submitted,
Joseph P. Streany Secretary, Pro-temp

3/31/2025 8:59 AM

