Planning Board Meeting Minutes
November 7th, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Rob Luntz
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison (late)
ABSENT: Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Eva Thaddeus
1. CALL TO ORDER:
Chairman Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of November 7th, 2023 to order at 8:00 p.m.
2.

PUBLIC HEARING

a) Ameriland Brook, LLC, 352 S. Riverside Ave. (79.13-1-74) Application for Site Plan
Approval and associated approvals, including any waiver of off-street parking spaces
for a mixed-use building.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion
carried, 4 to 0.
Since last meeting, the applicants updated plans to show some lighting in the parking lot of the proposed
building. The Planning Board asked if there was a lighting plan, and there is not one. The Planning
Board request that the applicants come back with a photometric plan. Steve Krisky stated that there is a
nationally recognized program called Dark Skies, which the Conservation Advisory Council endorses, to
bring down light pollution and they are looking for lights that point down, with less wattage.
The applicants were asked if they spoke with the owner of Harmon Deli, who shares the alleyway with
them and they had not, as they were hoping to receive site plan approval first. The Planning Board
thought that the applicant should speak with the neighbor first, and Dan O'Connor offered to share an
email address for the building owner, who is usually not at the property.
When asked about the egress, Dan O'Connor clarified that the code stats that four apartment units per
floor are the maximum per egress, provided that there is a sprinkler system in place, so the current plan
is code compliant. Dan O'Connor said that the applicant will need to make an emergency egress exit in
the basement.
The Planning Board asked the applicant for a lighting plan for the alleyway. The applicants will need
several variances and Dan O'Connor offered to advise the applicant as to which variances they will need
to apply for. The Planning Board can choose to send a memo to the Zoning Board of Appeals in support
of the applicants. Chairman Luntz would also like to see details of lighting for the employee parking area
to ensure that the employees have safe passage to their cars. Regarding the garbage receptacles near
the employee parking area, the applicant says that the employees arrive later in the day after the trash is
picked up.
Steve Krisky thought that the applicants may want to consider another color scheme for the trim around
the windows and possibly adding shutters to the windows.

1

The applicants were asked about the sidewalk grade and the ramp in front of their existing restaurant.
The applicants do not want to remove the ramp or have construction in front of their existing business.
Steve Krisky thought it would be nice to make some improvements, possibly planters to improve the look
of the metal bar on the ramp in front of the existing restaurant.
Chairman Luntz invited comments from the public, but there were none. The Planning Board decided to
keep the public hearing open until the next meeting.
Geoff Haynes summarized for the applicants what the Planning Board will be looking for at the next
meeting:
1) A lighting plan with photometrics for parking lot and alleyway.
2) Colors for the trim on the building's south side windows, possible something different from the white
that is currently proposed.
3) An update of a conversation with the Harmon Deli owner regarding upgrades to the alleyway.
4) Updated design plan for the front of the building and samples of the siding and window colors.
The Planning Board offered that they are open to making a favorable recommendation to the Zoning
Board of Appeals when the applicant applies for variances.

3.

NEW BUSINESS
a) Murphy, Andrew 118 Scenic Drive West (67.10-2-5.2) -Amended Site Plan

Ally D'Annunzio of Cronin Engineering was present in support of this application. The project received
Minor Site Plan approval in January, 2023 and at that time, the plan was for no trees to be removed.
Once the house was staked out by a surveyor, it was determined that seven trees would need to be
removed due to concern that the tree root zones will be damaged during construction, potentially killing
the trees, thus creating a risk that these tall trees could fall on the new home. There are seven trees
proposed to be removed, one maple, one locust and five pine trees. The proposal also calls for eleven
new trees to be planted, six white pines, two white spruce and three blue spruce that will also provide
more screening than the trees that will be removed. Steve Krisky asked if the roots of the new trees will
be shorter and it was reported that the new trees will be shorter in height than the ones that are being
removed. The tree stumps will be ground down.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the resolution for the amended site plan for 118 Scenic Drive
West, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 4-0.

b) Referral from Village Board to review the application from Marco Ordonez, of M & J
Auto Repair Corp. to renew the special permit to operate a motor vehicle repair
garage at 485 S. Riverside Avenue and modify the special permit to include an
existing 6' x 12' shed to store various equipment and supplies.
Marco Ordonez was present in support of the application to renew his special permit. Chairman Luntz
mentioned that the last time this application was heard, there was a concern about vehicles in and out of
the parking lot and Chairman Luntz wondered if there have been any issues. The applicant did not
report any issues.
Dan O'Connor stated that the owner of Straddles Gymnastics has expressed concerns about the parking
lot for children coming to and from his program. The owner of Straddles Gymnastics is aware of the
upcoming public hearing with the Board of Trustees for the Special Permit.
Currently there are three open violations associated with this Auto Repair Shop. The first is the shed
that does not have a building permit or certificate of occupancy. The applicant will apply for site plan

2

approval for the shed. The second violation is for the signs that are displayed without a sign permit and
the applicant has applied for a permit to remedy this violation.
The third violation has to do with the large concrete block makeshift retaining wall that was installed
without a building permit. Currently, the wall is leaning and there is concern about it falling. The owner
of the building will need to legalize the retaining wall.
In terms of the Planning Board's response to the Village Board, the Planning Board discussed
recommending to approve the special permit for eighteen months instead of the requested three years,
to give the applicant time to remedy the violations. Dan O'Connor discussed possibly issuing a violation
for the retaining wall to the property owner. The Planning Board wanted to separate the issues and have
the applicant legalize his shed and signs and have the landlord take care of the wall.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to make a recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees to approve
the Special Permit for M & J Auto Repair 1 Corp. for a period of eighteen months, seconded by Steve
Krisky, and the motion carried, 4-0. The applicant was advised that he needed to come back to the
Planning Board for Amended Site Plan approval for the shed on the property.
c) Referral from Village Board to review Local Law Introductory 19 of 2023 to amend
and update provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village Code, Family
definition.
The Planning Board reviewed the referral from the Village Board and is in agreement with the proposed
action as the changes appear to be editorial updates, with no policy implications. The updated code is
written to include non-traditional families and criteria for determining if there is more than one family
living in a dwelling.
Steve Krisky made a motion to accept the language for Local Law Introductory 19 of 2023, seconded by
John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 4-0.
d) Referral from Village Board to review Local Law Introductory 21 of 2023 to amend
Section 230, Zoning, of the Village Code to revise the regulations for accessory
apartments and permit accessory cottages.
The Planning Board reviewed the referral from the Village Board regarding Local Law Introductory 21 of
2023. The Planning Board suggested some changes in the wording of the proposed law:
1)

The last line of condition C states that "Approval for an accessory apartment shall be issued to
and run with the property owner." The Planning Board would like to include accessory cottages
so that the line would state "Approval for an accessory apartment or accessory cottage shall be
issued to and run with the property owner.
11

2) As written condition F states that "The character, degree and extent of any additions to the
residence or new accessory structure shall be a factor to be considered by the Planning Board in
approval of an application for an accessory apartment or accessory cottage." The Planning
Board suggests update the wording to state "The character, impact on neighborhood and visual
streetscape of any additions to the residence or new accessory structure shall be a factor to be
considered by the Planning Board in approval of an application for an accessory apartment or
accessory cottage.
11

3)

The Planning Board would suggest revising condition I to read "The habitable floor area of an
accessory apartment or accessory cottage shall be no less than 300 square feet and no greater
than the lesser of 800 square feet or 40% of the habitable floor area of the dwelling in which it is
contained. In any case, the Planning Board shall have the authority to approve a greater or

3

lesser amount of floor area if warranted by the specific circumstances of a particular building or
lot.

Additionally, the Planning Board would like to make the following recommendations to be added to Local
Law 21-2023;
1) Neighbor notification for an accessory apartment shall be sent to residences within 100 feet, but
an accessory cottage application shall require neighbor notification within 200 feet.
2) No accessory cottages shall be permitted in the R-5 Zoning District.
3) Tenants in either accessory cottages or accessory apartments should be required to sign a
minimum of a six-month lease.
4) Clarification regarding legally non-conforming buildings and how that would affect the proposed
language in the code for conforming accessory structures.
5) Clarification on properties that have a variance on the setback.
The Planning Board agrees with the idea of there being no more than 50 accessory apartments and
accessory cottages active in the Village at any time.

3) APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes October 17th, 2023
Rob Luntz made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of October 3rd, 2023, as amended,
seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried by a vote of 4-0.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:32 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board
**Minutes approved, as amended 11/21/23 with a motion by Steve Krisky, seconded by Geoff Haynes,
and carried 4 - 0 with Eva Thaddeus abstaining as she was absent on 11/7/23**

4

Chairman
ROBERT LUNTZ
Members
JOHNGHEGAN
GEOFFREY HA YNES
STEVEN KR/SKY
EVA THADDEUS

Village of

Allorney

Planning Board

LINDA WHITEHEAD

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501
engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov

TO:

Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees

FROM:

Robert Luntz, Chairman of the Planning Board

RE:

Local Law Introductory 19-2023

DATE:

November 9th, 2023

Village Engineer
DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

At its regularly scheduled meeting on November 7th 2023, the Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson reviewed the referral from the Village Board regarding Local Law
Introductory 19 of 2023 to amend and update provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village
Code.
The Planning Board is in agreement with the proposed action as the changes seem to be
editorial updates, with no policy implications. The updated code is written to include nontraditional families and criteria for determining if there is more than one family living in a
dwelling.
In summary, the Planning Board was in favor of Local Law Introductory 19 of 2023.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov

Chairman

ROBERT LUNTZ
Members

JOHNGHEGAN
GEOFFREY HAYNES
STEVEN KR/SKY
EVA THADDEUS

Village of

Attorney

Planning Board

LINDA WHITEHEAD

Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY I 0520-250 I
engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov

Village Engineer

DANIEL O'CONNOR, P.E.
Secretary

KAREN STAPLETON

TO:

Mayor Pugh and the Board of Trustees

FROM:

Robert Luntz, Chairman of the Planning Board

RE:

Local Law Introductory 21-2023

DATE:

November 17th, 2023

At its regularly scheduled meeting on November 7th 2023, the Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson reviewed the referral from the Village Board regarding Local Law
Introductory 21 of 2023 to amend and update provisions of Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Village
Code.
The Planning Board suggested some changes in the wording of the proposed law:

C. In the last line of condition C states that "Approval for an accessory apartment shall be issued
to and run with the property owner." The Planning Board would like to include accessory
cottages so that the line would state "Approval for an accessory apartment or accessory cottage
shall be issued to and run with the property owner."

F. Currently, condition F states that "The character, degree and extent of any additions to the
residence or new accessory structure shall be a factor to be considered by the Planning Board in
approval of an application for an accessory apartment or accessory cottage." The Planning
Board would like to update the wording to state "The character, impact on neighborhood and
visual streetscape of any additions to the residence or new accessory structure shall be a factor
to be considered by the Planning Board in approval of an application for an accessory apartment
or accessory cottage."

I. The Planning Board would revise condition I to read "The habitable floor area of an accessory
apartment or accessory cottage shall be no less than 300 square feet and no greater than the
lesser of 800 square feet or 40% of the habitable floor area of the dwelling in which it is
contained. In any case, the Planning Board shall have the authority to approve a greater or
lesser amount offloor area if warranted by the specific circumstances of a particular building or
lot.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov

Additionally, the Planning Board would like to make the following recommendations to be
added to Local Law 21-2023:
1) Neighbor notification of an accessory apartment shall be sent to residences within 100
feet, but an accessory cottage application shall require neighbor notification within 200
feet.
2) No accessory cottages shall be permitted in the R-5 Zoning District.
3) Tenants in either accessory cottages or accessory cottages will be required to sign a
minimum of a six-month lease.
4) Clarification regarding legally non-conforming buildings and how that would affect the
proposed language in the code for conforming accessory structures.
5) Clarification on properties that have a side or rear yard variance on the existing
accessory structure.
The Planning Board also recommends that an annual report on accessory apartments and
accessory cottages be prepared by the Building Department. The report should include data on
the number of units and their status, complaints received, violations issued, and any other
relevant information.

Tel: 914-271-4783

www.crotononhudson-ny.gov

engineering@crotononhudson-ny.gov

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, on November 71h, 2023, the Planning Board heard an Amended Minor Site
Plan application submitted by Cronin Engineering, P.E., P.C., hereafter known as "the
Applicant." The subject property, owned by Andrew Murphy & Jeanne Magram and is
located at 118 Scenic Drive West in RA-25 One-Family Residence Zoning District and
designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.10 Blk. 2
Lot 5.2; and
WHEREAS, the application is for the removal of seven (7) trees - 1 maple, 1 locust and 5
pine trees. The applicant will plant 11 new trees; 6 white pines, 2 white spruce and 3
blue spruce to replace the removed trees; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the amended minor site plan application as
described in the cover letter dated October 31 st, 2023; Photographs entitled "Trees to be
Removed"; and Drawings SP-1.0 entitled SP-1.0 "Existing Conditions Plan," SP-2.0
"Layout, Grading and Utility Plan," SP-2.1 "Erosion and Sediment Control
Plan/Construction Details and CD-3.0 Construction Details, dated January 12, 2023 and
last updated on October 27 1h, 2023 all submitted Cronin Engineering, is approved, subject
to the following condition:

1) All requirements and conditions of the original site plan approval issued by the
Planning Board on January 171h, 2023 not modified by this amended approval shall
remain in force.
The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus (Absent)

Motion to approve by Geoffrey Haynes, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried by a vote
of 4 - 0, with Eva Thaddeus being absent.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on November 7, 2023.

