Planning Board Meeting Minutes
May 2nd, 2023
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT:

Steve Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

ALSO PRESENT: Daniel O'Connor, P.E., Village Engineer
Ann Gallelli, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Sherry Horowitz, Village Board Trustee
ABSENT: Chairman Rob Luntz
Eva Thaddeus
1.

CALL TO ORDER:

Acting Chairman Krisky called the Planning Board meeting of May 2nd, 2023 to order at 8:02 p.m.

2.

PUBLIC HEARING

a) Porteus & Son Builders, LLC- 25 Harrison St. (68.17-2-26.02) Preliminary Subdivision
Application
Geoff Haynes made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion
carried, 3-0. Bruno Pesavento of 21 Harrison Street spoke and said that he had no opposition to the
project and that he was in fact in favor of it. Bruno Pesavento said that he believes that the developer is
good to the neighbors and the new homes will benefit the community.
Being that there were no additional comments from the audience, John Ghegan made a motion to close
the public hearing, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried, 3-0.
Applicant Greg Porteus and architect, Joe Thompson were present in support of the application. Geoff
Haynes asked the applicant how the new homes would be heated and he answered that he would use a
heat pump for both heat and hot water. The applicant used this same heating method in new homes that
he recently built on Wells Avenue in the Village with good results. The applicant confirmed that the new
homes will be ready for solar installation and electric vehicle charging station installation.
The architect showed renderings of the two proposed homes and the applicant described his intent to
make the lots attractive.
Steve Krisky confirmed that the Waterfront Advisory Committee reviewed the application and made a
recommendation for consistency with the policies of the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program
(LWRP).
The Planning Board determined that the proposed action is an unlisted action and reviewed the Short
Environmental Assessment Form and completed part 2 of the EAF and issued a negative declaration.

1

There were previous subdivision approvals on this property. In 1880, three lots were approved and in
2014, two lots were approved, which could have been two duplexes. This consolidation subdivision splits
the center lot, creating two 75-foot-wide lots for which the applicant has received zoning variances for lot
width and setbacks.
In the Planning Board resolution, as there is no recreational land, the applicant will have to pay money in
lieu of recreational land for one of the lots. The money will be placed in a trust fund to be used for
recreational purposes in the Village.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the preliminary subdivision application for 25 Harrison Street for
Greg Porteus of Porteus and Son Builders, noting that the application is consistent with LWRP and went
through SEQRA review and that the applicant will come back to the Planning Board for minor site plan
approval, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion passed, 3 - 0.

b) AHC, LLC. - 41-51 Maple St. (aka "Katz Property" 78.12-3-3) Amended Site Plan and
Amended Tree Removal Permit
Geoff Haynes made a motion to open public hearing, seconded by John Ghegan. Applicant Keith Libolt
and Attorney Peter Schuyler were present in support of the application. The applicant reported meeting
with neighbors since the last Planning Board meeting and as construction develops, their needs changed
and he is trying to accommodate their requests for improvements to their properties. The applicant
walked the property with Dan O'Connor and submitted an amended tree removal permit. The applicant
also reported additional drains that were found on neighboring properties.
Peter Schuyler stated that the biggest change from the original site plan would be the fence that the
neighbors are requesting for safety and aesthetic reasons. As per Peter Schuyler, the other area of
concern is drainage as drainage will need to be restored and there is no real plan for that, as multiple
existing drains have been found that are not on the plans. Peter Schuyler also asked the Planning Board
to write a letter to the Village Board, recommending that the property at 1 Wells Avenue be on DPW's list
for snow removal. Lastly, Peter Schuyler stated that some neighboring residents would like additional
trees planted and some will be satisfied with the proposed fence. There is no agreement on the style of
the fence at this time.
Geoff Haynes asked about the drains and the applicant stated that at the moment, they are monitoring
them. After a weekend of significant rainfall, the drains did not have much water. Sheet C-7 of the plans
will be updated to show all the existing drains.
John Hrycko of 59 Beekman Avenue was first to speak. Mr. Hrycko's property is adjacent to the
development and he states that he does not want vegetation to give him a barrier, he would like a PVC
type fence, solid, at least 8-feet high and will apply for a variance if he needs to.
Jeff Lawton of 64 Beekman Avenue spoke next and stated that his home abuts the property at issue. As
per Mr. Lawton, regarding trees or tree removal, the original site plan was negotiated in depth, there is at
least one tree on his property with a yellow tag that he would not want to see destroyed. Mr. Lawton
states that certain trees were selected for aesthetics, and he objects strenuously to trees being removed
without justification. Mr. Lawton is afraid that the neighbors from the new buildings will cut through his
backyard to get to the Village quicker, so he would like a buffer to prevent people trespassing on his
property. Dan O'Connor stated that a yellow ribbon indicates a tree that will be saved.

2

Elizabeth Mahaney of S Wells Avenue spoke next. Mrs. Mahaney reported that there are four drainage
pipes that run under her home, one which goes to the front of the house. The pipes were tested and are
running fine. When a bulldozer from the new development came into the easement, it hit the pipes. Dan
O'Connor came out with the applicant and addressed the issue and the pipes were painted orange. Mrs.
Mahaney is also concerned about a tree that is over 70 years old and she feels that losing this tree will
have a negative impact on other trees. This particular tree matches another one in the area and they are
called "The Sisters." This easement was addressed with Mr. Katz years ago and Mrs. Mahaney believes
that this was supposed to be a protected area. Steve Krisky stated that the applicant has committed to
making sure that the drains are not impeded and that the applicant will either maintain the drains or re-do
them in a way that is satisfactory to all. Keith Libolt said that there was no way for the tree to remain and
reiterated that the money from the retaining walls that will not be installed will be used for the neighbors'
property improvements.
Kate Bellingham of 7 Wells was next to speak. Mrs. Bellingham served on the task force for this project
and recalled a lot of discussion surrounding the bids and she also clearly recalls language stating that the
construction site must have a buffer of SO-feet of existing vegetation. Mrs. Bellingham then stated that
her husband found a site plan on the Village Website that depicted the destruction of all trees behind her
house and the grading of the steep slope beginning right at her property line, at which point she obtained
legal representation from Peter Schuyler. An agreement was made with Larry Regan to reduce the
easement to 3S-feet and to keep as much existing vegetation as possible. Mrs. Bellingham states that
this is the time when Larry Regan agreed to build the "C shaped" retaining walls around two substantial
trees and Mrs. Bellingham saw this as a consolation for forfeiting the 1S-foot easement being disturbed.
The agreement also included landscaping to replace what was being removed in the 1S-foot easement.
Regarding the slope, Mrs. Bellingham believes that it would be unsafe for her children and pets to live at
the top of the steep slope without a fence, so she is substantiating that she is requesting both the
landscaping and the fence and the money already promised for landscaping should not be used for the
fence. She is neutral on the type of fence, wood, or vinyl.
Lisa Morsberger of 3 Wells Avenue was next to speak and she agrees with Kate Bellingham that at an
informal walkaround at the beginning of the process and were promised a SO-foot barrier that would keep
existing trees and provide new trees. At this time, the cut that was made behind her house is so steep
that a fence needs to be installed for safety, but Lisa Morsberger additionally would like landscaping so
that the area looks more natural, like it did before.
Natarajan Velmani of 1 Wells Avenue was next to speak and stated that he gave a list to his attorney,
Peter Schuyler of improvements that he is requesting from the applicant. Mr. Velmani is significantly
affected by this new development, losing 1/3 of the front of his property and two trees that shade the front
of his house due to the installation of the sidewalk, as well as two parking spots in front of his house. Mr.
Velmani is requesting that the fence to be installed by the applicant come behind his house and that the
new sidewalk on his property be added to the list of properties for the Village to remove snow.
Peter Schuyler stated that the fence should be shown on the as built plans and the owner of the
development must be responsible for maintaining the fence.
Geoff Haynes went through the resolution, noting that the exact location of the fence and new
landscaping will be determined at a later date, and remarking that there is a fair amount of good faith
between the homeowners and the applicant. Geoff Haynes went through additional conditions to be
added to the resolution including requiring the applicant to provide as built drawings and an updated
landscape plan, that all new landscaping will have a two-year warranty, that new fences installed will be

3

located and the subject property and the owner of subject property will be responsible for maintaining it.
The planning board also agreed to send a memorandum to the Village Board requesting that the sidewalk
along the property at 1 Wells Avenue will be added to the list of properties for snow removal by Croton
DPW and lastly, the applicant will address the drainage pipes on adjacent properties on Wells Avenue.
Lisa Morsberger wanted clarity on the $5,000 number, noting that she is looking for landscaping and a
fence. Dan O'Connor noted that some of this landscaping is already approved. Keith Libolt clarified that
it is $5,000.00 per property, covering six adjoining properties.
Elizabeth Mahaney of 5 Wells Avenue spoke again and asked if there was any way that the tree in
question that is supposed to come down could be moved.
Kate Bellingham wanted to clarify that there is no $25,000 cap to the applicant's spending on neighboring
properties as Mr. Lawton was not originally included in the easement.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to close the public hearing, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion
carried, 3 - 0.
Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the resolution for the Amended Site Plan and Amended Tree
Removal Permit for Regan Development Corp. subject to conditions that were on the original resolution
and added at this meeting, seconded by John Ghegan, and the motion carried, 3-0.

3.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
a) Draft Minutes April 18th, 2023

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of April 18th, 2023, as amended,
seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 3-0.
Engineer's Report
•
1380 APR made a legal argument that the easement is extinguished, Linda Whitehead, Village
Attorney, is reviewing.
•
New interest in 123 N Riverside Ave., the engineer looking to run utilities under Prospect Place
with an easement.
• ADU law discussion still on the table. There is a Zoom call scheduled for the next planning board
meeting with Tiffany Zezula from Pace Law.
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 10:16 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended 5/16/23 by a vote of 4 - 0 with Eva Thaddeus being absent***

4

RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Planning Board held a public hearing for an Amended Site Plan
application on May 2nd , 2023 for AHC, LLC, aka the "Katz Property", hereafter known
as "the Applicant." The subject property, owned by 41-51 Maple, LLC, is located at 41-51
Maple Street in the C-2 General Commercial/Municipal Place Gateway Overlay Zoning
District and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section
78.12 Block 3 Lot 3, and
WHEREAS, this amended site plan application is for a modification of a previously
approved site plan to now include the removal of four additional trees. Additionally, the
original site plan showed two retaining walls on the northern slope of the property that will
not be built on recommendation from the structural engineer; and
WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental
Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required;
WHEREAS, the public hearing was opened and closed on May 2nd , 2023; and
WHEREAS, under section 208-16(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the
approving authority for the issuance of a Tree Removal Permit and in accordance with
section 208-16(E) of the Village Code the approval of the Amended Site Plan includes the
approval to remove trees noted on the site plan to be removed, subject to the conditions
specified below.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Amended Site Plan application as
shown on Drawing C-3 entitled "Existing Conditions/Removal Plan, be approved subject
to the following conditions:

1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at
length.
2. That, approval is granted to remove four additional trees as shown on the
amended tree removal plan submitted with this application. The
approval to remove the additional trees is conditioned on the applicant
providing the adjacent property owners at: 1, 3, 5 and 7 Wells Avenue
and 59 and 64 Beekman Avenue additional fencing and/or landscaping
as agreed to by the neighbor's attorney and approved the Village
Engineer in an amount up to an approximate value of $5000 per property
as stated in a letter from the applicant dated 5/1/23 which is attached to
and made part of this resolution.
3. That, approval is granted to omit the two retaining walls on the slope that
were originally design to support the ground around trees to be saved and
the ground graded to match the proposed slope on both sides of the
former retaining walls.
4. That the applicant provides as built site plan drawings including an as
built landscaping plan prior to a certificate of occupancy being granted.
5. That all new trees and landscaping have a two-year warranty and a copy
of the warranty shall be submitted to the Village Engineer.
6. That any new fences scheduled to be installed shall be located on 41-51
Maple Street and maintained by the owner of 41-51 Maple Street.

2
7. That an updated utility plan (sheet C-7 of the approved site plan) be
developed to address any drainage water from the existing drainage pipes
from the adjacent properties on Wells Avenue to ensure no erosion or
other drainage problems. The revised utility plan shall be approved by
the Village Engineer.
8. That all conditions of the original Site Plan Approval resolution dated
August 10th , 2021 not modified herein shall remain in force.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton on Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
Motion to approve by Geoffrey Haynes, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote
of 3 to 0, with Robert Luntz and Eva Thaddeus being absent.
Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, May 2nd , 2023.

RESOLUTION
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL
WHEREAS, Greg Porteus of Porteus & Son Builders has applied to the Planning Board
for Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval on a property which is located at 25 Harrison
Street, in an RB Two-Family Residential District, and is designated on the Tax Map of the
Village as Section 68.17 Block 2 Lot 26.2.
WHEREAS, the subdivision being proposed is a two-lot subdivision; and
WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act
(SEQRA), the Planning Board has determined that this project is an Unlisted Action; and
WHEREAS, on June 8th , 2022, the Zoning Board of Appeals approved two side yard
variances and a lot width variance from Village Code for the subdivision of a lot to build
two single-family homes.
WHEREAS, under section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the
approving authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and
WHEREAS, the Applicant has submitted to the Planning Board a Short Environmental
Assessment Form (EAF) dated May 2nd, 2023 and a Coastal Assessment Form (CAF)
dated March 20, 2023; and
WHEREAS, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed the application on April
25th, 2023 for a recommendation of consistency with the policies of the Village's Local
Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) and the WAC in their memorandum to the
Planning Board dated April 26th recommended to the Planning Board that the Proposed
Action be found consistent with the LWRP; and
WHEREAS, based on the WAC's recommendation of consistency with the LWRP and
the Planning Board's review of the submitted documents and part 2 of the EAF, the
Planning Board determined that there will be no significant adverse impacts resulting
from the Proposed Action and issued a Negative Declaration; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Board determined that the Proposed Action complied with and
is consistent with the policies, standards and conditions set forth in the Village's LWRP
for the reasons set forth in the Environmental Assessment Form and Negative
Declaration which have been issued in connection with the Proposed Action all of which
are incorporated herein by reference, and in accordance with the recommendation of the
Village's Waterfront Advisory Committee; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing before the Planning Board was held on this application on
Tuesday, May 2nd , 2023 and closed on Tuesday, May 2nd , 2023, and:
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Planning Board approves the
application submitted by Greg Porteus of Porteus & Son Builders for a two-lot subdivision
of property located at 25 Harrison Street, as shown on the Drawing Sheet 1 entitled "Site
Plan & Subdivision Plat" and Drawing Sheet 2 entitled "Grading, Drainage and Erosion
Control Plan," dated April 4th , 2022, revised May 23 rd , 2022, prepared by Alfred A.
Cappelli Jr, AIA:

1. That, the foregoing recitals are incorporated herein as if set forth at length.

2
2. That, Minor Site Plan application shall be submitted and approved by the Planning
Board prior to the issuance of a building permit.
3. That, money in lieu of recreation land be paid to the Village at the time of
issuance of a building permit by the Village Engineer in accordance with Section
230-123 (B) (3) of the Village Code and the fee schedule as adopted by the
Village Board.
4. That, iron rods or other acceptable property corner markers be installed at all new
proposed property corners and along new property lines as required by the
Village Engineer and these be shown on the final subdivision map.
5. That, a final subdivision plan acceptable for filing in the Westchester County
Clerk's Office and addressing the above items be prepared. Said plat shall
include all required notes, certifications, etc. as required by applicable agencies.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that as part of the Final Subdivision Plat approval
process, the Applicant shall obtain the necessary approval from the Westchester County
Department of Health. Evidence of approval by the Westchester County Department of
Health shall be in the form of the Department of Health's endorsement of the Final
Subdivision Plat.
The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus
The motion to approve was made by Geoff Haynes, seconded by John Ghegan, and
carried by a vote of 3 to 0, with Eva Thaddeus and Rob Luntz being absent.
The resolution was accepted at the Planning Board meeting held on May 2nd, 2023.

2

