Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting
Monday, March 10, 2025
Present:

Debi Braddick, Emily Boglioli, Pete Sedlmair, Kyle Raum,
Frances Catanio, Karen Pecora, John Sasso, Nora Nickleson,
John Bouchard and Mark Duncan

Meeting Called to Order: The meeting opened at 7:05 p.m. by Debi
Approval of Minutes: The January and the February minutes were
approved.
Report on Pocket Park Name: John Bouchard reached out to Tom Giglio
(John’s son) about having John Giglio as one of the recommended names to
submit to have the Park named after. Tom said that he thought that was a
great idea.
Black Rock Park and Duck Pond Park Visit by RAC: The Recreation
Advisory Committee agreed on a date(s) to visit the Bocce Court and Dog
Park at Black Rock Park and Duck Pond Park to see where possible benches
could be placed within the parks. The committee agreed that Thursday
March 13th @ 10am with RAC members and Sunday, March 16th @ 10am
for those who work.
Budget Presentation Date/Time: The date for the Recreation Department
Budget presentation will be on Thursday, April 10th at 7pm.
Spring Openings: John Bouchard mention that the tarps on the fields are
being removed this week. Once that is complete, work will be performed on
them to get them ready for usage this spring. DPW is looking to get the
fields ready as soon as possible for all of the organizations to utilize.

New Online Registration: Mark shared with the Recreation Advisory
Committee that Recreation has installed a new online registration system
called WebTrac. WebTrac is more up to date with settings that can be
customized. For example, on our old registration system, for online
registrations… if a program had to be closed due to full enrollment or
cancellation, the Recreation Department would have to coordinate this with
a staff member in the Village Office. Now, the Recreation Department has
full access to these settings and can program what needs to be done.
Miscellaneous: Nora mentioned that the dedication for naming the building
at Gouveia Park house after former Trustee Ann Gallelli will happen in the
near future.

Adjournment: The meeting was adjourned at 7:50 p.m.
The next regular meeting is scheduled for Monday, April 14, 2025 @ 7:00 p.m.

