Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, January 7, 2026, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Slippen
Trustee Nachtaler

1. Mayor Pugh called the regular meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 26003855-26004082. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$443,335.62
$56,798.07
$981.33
$43,244.09
$780.00

3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
4. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked for more information
on the diesel initiative, congratulated the Conservation Advisory Council on all
their accomplishments, and asked for more information on the Half Moon Bay
Bridge project.
Judy Rayer, 3 Gerstein Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is happy to
see that the dog park hours are being extended till 6pm. Ms. Rayer asked if
guests of Croton residents would be allowed to take a resident’s dog to the
dog park as well as allowing a guest to bring their dog to the dog park if they
brought proof of the dog’s vaccination records.
John Sasso, 87 Morningside Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that barking dogs
are not an issue at the dog park, we have not seen more than four to five dogs
at the park at one time, people who use the dog park are very committed to
working with the residents and he is happy for the extended hours.

Village Board of Trustees
January 7, 2026
Page 2

5. REPORT FROM THE VILLAGE MANAGER:
Village Manager Healy advised that the Village will be switching over all DPW
vehicles to renewable diesel, the Village expects to see an annual reduction of
approximately 186 metric tons of CO2 per year which accounts for roughly
12.5% of the Village’s total carbon footprint, we will be allocating funds from
the lease of the DPW solar canopy and we do not foresee a fiscal impact on
the budget. Village Manager Healy thanked Lindsay Audin from the
Sustainability Committee for developing this initiative and Frank Balbi and John
Bouchard from the Dept. of Public Works for implementing it.
Village Manager Healy advised that residents with a Park Identification Card
are entitled to bring guests to the parks, but the current rules for the Dog Park
do not allow out-of-town dogs; dog sitters or a guest of a resident would also
not be able to take a dog to the Dog Park.
Village Manager Healy emphasized that the Half Moon Bridge is structurally
sound but it is forty years old and is showing normal wear and tear. Village
Manager Healy emphasized that the bridge is not being replaced and directed
everyone to the video on the Village’s website of the meeting held last Monday.
Village Manager Healy thanked the Water Department for all their hard work
during several water main breaks, reminded everyone that alarm permits are
due to be renewed and that the offices will be closed in recognition of Martin
Luther King Day.
Mayor Pugh advised that the Petition regarding the adjoining property next to
Half Moon Bay was withdrawn and the lease for the use of the property has
been extended an additional five years.
6. CONSENT AGENDA:
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board
approved the Consent Agenda. Motion was approved with a 5-0 Vote.
Trustee Nachtaler asked for some context on why the Dog Park hours were till
4pm and will residents have an opportunity to comment on the proposed
changes.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Dog Park hours were set after a long
period of deliberations between Dog Park users and the neighbors of
Quakerbridge Road and the compromise was to have longer hours on

Village Board of Trustees
January 7, 2026
Page 3

weekdays and shorter hours on weekends. Village Manager Healy stated that
we are not voting on it this evening and the Board will have an opportunity to
continue to discuss it during a future work session.
Trustee Slippen stated that when she was on the Recreation Advisory Council
part of the compromise was expanding the hours of the Dog Park but limiting
the scope of who would be allowed to use the park. Trustee Slippen stated
that the Dog Park is the only Village Park that school district residents do not
have access to and she looks forward to discussing this at our work session.
The Board expressed their gratitude for all the hard work of the Conservation
Advisory Council in bringing forward many positive initiatives for the
community and thanked outgoing Chair, John Ealer, for his exceptional
leadership.
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Email from John Delaney, Fire Council Secretary, requesting permission
for the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department to conduct the annual Big
Bucks raffle fundraiser.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202601/62a6e1df9f2b27eec0d6bf0c26424800c292d4f7.pdf
2. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy regarding recommendations
received from the Recreation Advisory Committee.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202601/19655d9e494ed5a40cfa4b040cb5c5be7a0d1d06.pdf
3. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy regarding the renewable diesel
initiative for the Village's vehicle fleet.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202601/f6d449480072fec8e502bedc4405ca22cc9e5b47.pdf
4. Annual report from the Conservation Advisory Council.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202601/afcfd1abf19f518f1fd8974c14368bd80408774e.pdf
b.

RESOLUTIONS:

Village Board of Trustees
January 7, 2026
Page 4

Resolution #1-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
undertakes the following actions:
1. Approving the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department’s request to hold the
annual Big Bucks raffle fundraiser.
2. Filing for the record the annual report of the Conservation Advisory
Council.
3. Filing for the record the recommendations from the Recreation Advisory
Committee as presented by Village Manager Bryan Healy.
4. Filing for the record the memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy on the
renewable diesel initiative for the Village’s vehicle fleet.
c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on December
17, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #2-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson assumed the ownership of and
maintenance requirements for the Half Moon Bay Bridge over the Metro-North
Railroad tracks in 1996, and
WHEREAS in order to address past safety issues and the proper maintenance of the
bridge, the Village is moving ahead with the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
Half Moon Bay Bridge, and

Village Board of Trustees
January 7, 2026
Page 5

WHEREAS on February 7, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 292024 to accept the proposal from Tectonic Engineering of Rocky Hill, Connecticut, to
provide consulting and engineering design services for the project, and
WHEREAS Tectonic has provided a proposal to cover an additional scope of work
related to the pier cam beam repair needed for the bridge and the completion of state
requirements for coastal assessment in the amount of $41,540,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to accept the proposal from Tectonic Engineering for the above scope
of work, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for such work is available in account
H5110.2106.15287.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon explained that some of this has to do with alterations they needed to
make since there is certain work that cannot be done with an active railroad
underneath; additional information on the project can be found on the Village’s
website.
Resolution #3-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 14 of 2025 has been drafted to permit the
Village Board of Trustees to appoint an alternate member to the Planning Board and
Zoning Board of Appeals for the term of one official year, and
WHEREAS on September 24, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes, and
WHEREAS on December 17, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the
process and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Short EAF
“Determination of Significance” attached hereto, and
WHEREAS the Village Board held a public hearing to consider Local Law Introductory
No. 14 of 2025, which was opened and closed on December 17, 2025, and

Village Board of Trustees
January 7, 2026
Page 6

WHEREAS the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program, and
WHEREAS the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with the
LWRP policy standards and conditions, and
WHEREAS on December 17, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees determines that, after reviewing the LWRP policy
standards and conditions, none were found to be applicable for the Proposed Action,
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the adoption of a local law to
appoint an alternate member to the Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals for
the term of one official year, complies with the policy standards and conditions set
forth in the Village’s LWRP, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and adopts
the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and adopts a
Negative Declaration in connection with this action, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts Local
Law Introductory No. 14 of 2025 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, to appoint an
alternate member to the Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals for the term of
one official year, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 1 of 2026.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy emphasized that this law does not require the Board to appoint
alternative members, it just gives the Board the option if there is a sudden absence
or if a member has a conflict of interest.
Trustee Slippen asked if a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals or the Planning
Board has a conflict with a particular project could they just opt out of that particular
project, and participate in other projects.
Village Attorney Subin responded yes.

Village Board of Trustees
January 7, 2026
Page 7

8. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he objects to
legalizing assisted suicide in New York State; thanked Village Manager Healy
for his cooperation regarding the efforts to recognize John Patterson (17461850), a local Revolutionary War hero, we have also located other
Revolutionary War Veterans buried in Croton thanks to the work of our local
Historian.
Judy Rayer, 3 Gerstein Street, Croton on Hudson, stated that she is getting
more involved in the arts in Croton, and would like to see better signage in the
Village so people know when exhibits are being held.
Village Manager Healy suggested having a banner hung at the train station
similar to what other organizations do to promote their event.
Trustee Simon stated that we are also looking at ways to enhance our
community calendar.
9. REPORTS:
Trustee Slippen stated that the Village has engaged a communications firm to
look at how the Village communicates with residents, we are just at the
beginning of the process but there are a lot of opportunities to make
improvements in this area, attended the Arts and Humanities Advisory
Committee meeting last night and a representative from the ABC talked about
the possibility of the Village engaging with the ABC so that our committees
would be able to have access to their marketing, congratulated three Croton
scouts who earned their Eagle Scout Badge, Luca Camillieri, Alden Hou, Hunter
Szkodzinski, and thanked the Water Department and Department of Public
Works for all their efforts during our many water main breaks.
Trustee Nachtaler stated that Shoprite had been supportive and gracious in
the past in supporting our local groups but she has heard that there seems to
be a reduction in their sponsorship and would like to discuss this further.
Village Manager Healy stated that there has been some managerial changes at
Shoprite and explained that the Village is not allowed to solicit for donations
or gifts and we would not be able to approach Shoprite.
Trustee Nicholson advised that she attended the installation of the new Fire
Department officers, the new EMS facility is amazing and thanked our DPW for

Village Board of Trustees
January 7, 2026
Page 8

all their hard work and their continued efforts with dealing with the recent
snow events.
Trustee Simon stated that he is pleased to advise that our Newsletter will now
include a video feature, on December 19th he and Village Manager Healy met
with members of Welcome Wagon and talked about assisting in recruiting new
members, attended the installation of the incoming Fire Department officers,
on January 2nd he met with the Project Mover Regional Director and toured
Croton for possible new locations, this past Sunday he attended the EMS
installation, and on Sunday, he along with the Mayor and Trustee Slippen
attended the swearing in of Town of Cortlandt Officers.
Mayor Pugh stated that he had the honor of swearing in the new EMS officers
and presenting Certificates of Appreciation to the outgoing officers.
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board of
Trustees approved the following Mayoral appointments. Motion was approved
with a 5-0 vote.
Steven Krisky
Steven Krisky
James Tuman
Christina Alvarez Arnold
Vanessa Valenti
Faith Rivers

Planning Board
Planning Board Representative to the WAC
Zoning Board of Appeals
IDEA Committee
IDEA Committee
IDEA Committee, Chair

December 2030
December 2026
December 2030
December 2027
December 2026
December 2026

Mayor Pugh asked for a moment of silence to remember Jesse Beller; Mr.
Beller served on the Croton Board from 1985 to 1991; he was a true
Renaissance-man and will be missed.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0. Meeting adjourned at 8:16pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

