MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Dec. 7, 2025 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Edwin Adkins
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coord.)
Ashley Clemente

Absent:

Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Carly Shanks
Len Simon (Village Trustee)
Cheryl Wong (food scrap program)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): Jessa Mittleman, recent Croton resident interested in our work, was
invited but did not attend.
Announcements: as members of a Village committee, we must all complete the annual
NYS–mandated Workplace Violence and Sexual Harassment/Discrimination training,
unless a member has taken the courses at their workplace. Since taking the courses
last year, you’ll likely need to reset your password. Got questions? Send them to
pdisanto@crotononhudson-ny.gov
- EV/EVSE/RD
The contract with PISO (a/k/a Plug-In Stations Online) to install 18 EV charge ports at
the train station was signed 11/18/25. Planning for work in sections D and E (east of
canopy #3 along west side of Veterans Plaza) is now underway. Due to recent thefts
of copper (resulting from increased copper pricing), the charger spec was upgraded to
include newly available theft-resistant power cables.
Len reported that the Project MOVER e-Bike program has been very successful so
far: 1,088 rides initiated in Croton between July 9 and October 31. The program goes
into hibernation on December 19 and restarts in early April with 2 new hubs, bringing
the total to 8. Sleepy Hollow will be continuing its program through this winter to
assess interest in using the bikes in cold weather. The NYSERDA grant for the 6-town
program will run out in 2027, and Len indicated that support may be replaced through
changes to the bike-sharing fee and adding advertising at the bike hub sites.
The Renewable Diesel (RD) pilot test continues without problems. Mayor Pugh said it
should be done in January at which time RD would be used by all our diesel trucks.
- Solar Projects/Issues

1

Train station canopies: Commissioning of both the canopies and the BESS should
be completed by the end of December, with startup shortly thereafter. To avoid
continued damage to some downspout connections to the underground drainage
system by hasty commuters parking their cars, Sol is installing bollards to block them.
At canopy #2, Sol is installing shrouds around two photocells to block stray light from
pole-mounted lamps in the train yard that are causing the canopy lights to stay off
while other canopy lights came on after sundown.
DPW solar canopy: The project was re-bid on 11/20/25, with bids due 12/8/25. Two
more solar vendors attended the 12/1/25 site meeting. Hopefully, we’ll have a winner
this time. Kudos to Village Manager Healy for pushing the project forward. [Two bids
were received by the 10 AM 12/8/25 deadline.]
- Heat Pumps/Building Electrification
New building electrification code: As Jon and Dan briefly discussed at our last
meeting, NY State was about to implement a law mandating full electrification of new
buildings (including new houses), starting next month. However, on 11/13/25 Gov.
Hochul suspended it pending a decision by a State appeals court. Jon reviewed how
(once in place) the new code would disallow fossil-fueled heating systems,
appliances, and water heaters. With a few exceptions (e.g., laundromats) it would
apply to all new buildings under 7 stories in height and those less than 100,000 SF. If
re-instated, the law would (in 2029) apply to all new buildings, regardless of height or
size. Find a good summary at https://www.urbangreencouncil.org/decoding-new-yorkstates-all-electric-new-buildings-law/
- Other Programs
Food Scrap Recycling: The old shed and all items in it were moved 11/29/25 to Lot
G (far south end of train station parking lot) by the salt shed. The new replacement
scrap shed arrived 11/10/25. DPW removed visible screw tips, fixed the sticky left
door, and installed a ramp. Cheryl asked Frank Balbi to order extra toters and other
materials to expand the program in January to more households.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
Possible 2nd BESS: On 11/17/25, the 11/3/25 proposal for a BESS behind (i.e., north
of) the Municipal Place facility was reviewed by Village officials. To accommodate
ongoing DPW uses of the site, the project needed to shrink by half. We reviewed
Luminace’s 12/5/25 new proposal offering about half the previously proposed leasing
rent. Village officials are reviewing it.
As an alternate site for the original design, we discussed purchasing from the State
DOT the narrow wooded strip northwest of the facility between Rt. 9 and South
Riverside Ave. Mayor Pugh indicated that past experience with that agency on
another project was problematic. He felt it unlikely our request for a price on the land
would secure a useful or timely response. We then discussed moving the salt shed
(under consideration for other reasons) and using its spot for a BESS. [Subsequent
review of the adjacent power line found that it had no hosting capacity.]
2

Thank you to Jon for clarifying potential BESS revenue based on VDER credits, and
to Carly for assembling a spreadsheet of ~25 BESS developers so we’re ready to
seek competitive proposals.
Cutting our muni electric bill: An 18-month struggle to enroll Croton’s streetlight
electric accounts into community solar finally succeeded on 11/25/25. NYPA applied
~$4K in accrued credits to the Muni Bldg account, zeroing out its Nov. bill, while
providing another ~$1K credit against the Dec. bill. NYPA will apply all future street
lighting credits to that account, saving the Village ~$3K per year. Croton is (so far) the
only Westchester muni to secure such financial credits via its street lighting accounts.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
On 11/12/25, Croton100 said its next quilt will feature our EV charger installation and
the e-bike sharing program.
In its Fall 2025 newsletter, SW “pledged [at 2025’s Clinton Global Initiative event] to
“deliver [in our County]…rooftop solar to an additional 30,000 homes and add solar
canopies to nearly 300 parking lots”. The goal is to do so by the end of 2030. About
10,000 Westchester homes now have solar. About 30 parking lots have canopies.
- New Business / Other Issues
None.
To avoid holiday conflicts, we will take our usual winter recess. Our next zoom
meeting was set for Sunday, Jan. 18, 2026 at 10:00 AM. Happy Holidays to all!

3

