Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on December 1, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the Stanley
Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520.
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Slippen
Trustee Nachtaler

1. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 26003414-26003524. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$2,208,723.11
$113,720.57
$5,081.36
$175,681.37
$2,621.06

2. PUBLIC HEARING:
Motion to re-open the Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2025
to expand the residential parking permit system on Hastings and
Young Avenues was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Trustee Nachtaler said that the survey indicates that there were certain areas
where we received many yes responses, but noted that homes #4 through
#22 on Hastings Avenue were split fifty-fifty, and homes #121 to #146 on
Hastings Avenue showed that fifty-seven percent were in favor, but many
write-ins were not in favor and asked if those areas were eliminated.
To view the survey, you may click onto the following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/4e5dedb07bfbe857c9422ad610b17d525ab568ba.pdf
To view the Harmon Map, you may click onto the following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/723a37fd7b737a5cea4d9e919b713550841d46e3.pdf
Village Manager Healy stated that the Board had decided not to move forward
with the southernmost section of Hastings Avenue (#4 to #22) because we did
not get a good response from that area, and based on feedback the Board

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 2

received at the last meeting, the Board decided not to move forward with the
northernmost area of Hastings as well (#121 to #146).
COMMENTS
Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that Oneida
Avenue is cluttered with commercial vehicles from the corner of South
Riverside up to Hastings Avenue, there are also many cars parked on Young
Avenue making it difficult to turn onto Benedict Boulevard. Mr. Mamone stated
that the vehicles that are parked on Young Avenue are a mix of commuters,
people who work in the stores and commercial vehicles and blamed the
overcrowding of our residential streets on the expansion of Riverside Avenue
and the fact that the Village did not require developers to provide parking. Mr.
Mamone asked that the Village not use the “Home Rule” law as an excuse to
continue to allow four-hour parking and free parking on weekends.
Debi Braddick, 23 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, stated that the only
commercial vehicles she sees are contractors doing work in various homes.
Ms. Braddick stated that she was very adamant that she did not want the
Residential Parking System in her neighborhood, but after discussions with the
Village Manager she understands that she will receive two free parking permits.
Ms. Braddick stated that she believes the Board has done a good job trying to
make residents happy and now the Village must do a good job making the
community aware of the new regulations.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that there is a
shortage of parking on Young and Oneida Avenues because of overdevelopment and any future development in that area will create more issues.
Mr. Riely suggested putting up noise barriers between Young Avenue and the
commercial district and asked if there is going to be any changes to the current
Parking on South Riverside.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicolson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
COMMENTS RECEIVED VIA E-MAIL
Christopher Walsh, 113 Benedict Boulevard N.E. (corner of Hastings), stated
that he has been complaining about commuter parking for years, the parking
issue is not just about having a convenient place to park, it is more about

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 3

quality of life, and addressed noises that he awakens to every morning as a
result of cars parking on his street, as well as issues with leaf and snow
removal because commuter cars are parked in front of his home. Mr. Walsh
urged the Board to vote for the same restrictions on Hastings from Benedict
to Oneida, and urged the Board to consider the other streets which requested
this restriction because commuters will simply move to non-restricted areas.
Janet Delohery, 95 Hastings Ave, Croton-on-Hudson, stated that people who
frequent the Harmon businesses do not park for long periods of time, and
asked why should residents be penalized for choosing to live in one part of
town over another; why should Harmon residents have to pay if they have
more than two cars. Ms. Delohery stated that because he has a single
driveway, he cannot accommodate all his family's cars and while a $10 fee is
truly de minimums, requiring people to pay to park on their own street is
unfair; and asked why the Board sees a problem when there is no problem.
Resolution #258-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees adopted Local Law No.
15 of 2021 to implement a residential parking permit system along portions of
Hastings and Young avenues; and
WHEREAS, the Village Manager conducted a survey of the remaining blocks of
Hastings and Young avenues in September 2025 to determine if the parking permit
system should be expanded; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees reviewed the results of the survey at a work
session held on October 15, 2025; and
WHEREAS, a majority of residents on all blocks between Crest Street and Devon
Avenue supported the expansion of the parking permit system; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2025 has been drafted to expand the
residential parking permit system to include all of Hastings and Young avenues
between Crest Street and Devon Avenue,
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened on November 19, 2025, and closed on
December 1, 2025; and

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 4

WHEREAS, based on comments received from residents, the section of Hastings
Avenue between Crest Street and Oneida Avenue was removed from the residential
parking permit system,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2025 to amend Chapter 215, Vehicle & Traffic, of
the Village Code to expand the residential parking permit system along certain areas
of Hastings and Young avenues, which upon adoption becomes Local Law No. 18 of
2025.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that two years ago the Board began this discussion, we have
taken into consideration all the different concerns from the community and he
believes the Board has come up with a good solution for what is a diverse set of
streets.
Trustee Nicholson stated that she believes the Board has addressed the concerns and
issues from many residents and we will continue to work on formulating creative
solutions to come up with additional parking.
Trustee Nachtaler stated that there could still be an issue on the weekends and asked
if there were other comments from the community regarding weekend parking.
Village Manager Healy stated that he would have to go back and look at the individual
surveys, but the questions that were asked were only about weekdays and did not
include weekends. Village Manager Healy stated that the intent was to address
commuter parking and he believes that the outcome of the survey may have been
different if we included weekends.
Trustee Slippen stated that the communications around this was good, a lot of people
attended the meetings and we received good feedback. Trustee Slippen asked how
this is going to be implemented, and stressed the importance of communicating these
new restrictions so that people are not getting ticketed.
Village Manager Healy stated that a Residential Parking Permit Portal has already
been set up and we will reach out to residents advising them of the new law and
direct them to apply for the permit either in person or on-line.
3. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
4. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 5

Michael Mamone, 19 Young Avenue, asked that the Board to explain in more
detail the 20% Home Rule Law in an upcoming newsletter so residents
understand why we have four-hour parking on weekdays. Mr. Mamone
objected to the section in the law where it states that “no permit shall be
required on streets or portions of streets where the adjacent properties are
zoned for commercial/retail use” and believes this law was created to provide
parking for commercial vehicles. Mr. Mamone stated that Benedict Blvd
residents cannot even apply for a Residential Parking Permit because there
cannot be any restrictions on streets that are in commercial areas.
John McKeon, 25 Prospect Place, Croton on Hudson, stated that he is trying to
understand the statutory requirements with respect to a denial of a F.O.I.L.
request and suggested moving the responsibility of answering a denial from
the Village Manager to Legal Counsel.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked the Village Manager
to explain the “work hours for elected officials”; do elected officials participate
in the pension plan; do they receive medical insurance; what is the current
salary for Board members; what is the status of the Lorriane Hansberry
Committee in terms of communications, does the Village own the Kiosk by the
Sav-Mor Drug Store; objects to non-residents serving on Village committees
and thanked the Board for improving the quality of committees by requiring
them to have agendas and to keep minutes.
Debi Braddick, 23 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, encouraged the Board to
reach out to the entire community when there is a need for new committee
members so that we get different people to serve.
5. REPORT OF THE VILLAGE MANAGER:
Village Manager Healy responded to questions and concerns during Public
Comment:
(1)

with respect to the Home Rule Law, the Village has the option to either
set 20% of the area for non-permit parking, or allow parking in the
entire area, with a time-limit which is the model the
Village has chosen, the limit set in New York State Law is ninety minutes,
but the Board felt that four hours was sufficient to prevent commuter
parking, and would be sufficient to cover most visitors.

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 6

(2)

The Village Clerk is the F.O.I.L Access Officer, and would not deny a
request without conferring with the Village Attorney.

(3)

The Standard Workday for elected officials is a requirement by the New
York State Retirement System when elected officials opt into
participating in the Retirement System, if they choose to participate they
are required to provide a record of their hours worked in order to earn
credit in the Retirement System.

(4)

Elected Officials are not eligible for health benefits.

(5)

Parking on South Riverside is available at a discounted amount since it
is much further from the train station, we allowed use of those spaces
when work was being done on the parking lot, but there is no
arrangement for use of those spaces other than for permit holders.

(6)

The Village took ownership recently of the KIOSK at Croton Commons
and we are in the process of rehabilitating it.

(7)

The food scrap program has been relocated from LOT A to LOT G; there
is a larger shed that will allow everyone on the waiting list to participate.

(8)

The Half Moon Bay Bridge is moving along and a public information
meeting will be held in January.

(9)

The railings along the Route 9 walkway crossing from Croton to Ossining
are almost complete and we expect them to be done by the end of this
week.

(10)

We are expecting some winter weather tomorrow, main roads have
been brined in anticipation of the storm.

(11)

Work at the Washington Engine Firehouse is wrapping up and we expect
EMS to move into their new space at the Harmon Firehouse next week.

(12)

The sound system has already been upgraded and cameras are being
updated to enable HD images that will enable better viewing of
documents during the meeting.

(13)

Village Manager Healy updated the community on upcoming events and
programs which can be found on the Village’s website.

6. CONSENT AGENDA:

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 7

On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board
approved the Consent Agenda. Motion was approved with a 5-0 Vote.
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nicholson the Board
removed the email from Christine Wagner and FOIL Resolution for further
discussion. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
Trustee Simon thanked Christine Wagner for her outstanding service on the
Zoning Board of Appeals for the past eleven years, the Village has been very
fortunate to have had Christine all these years, and the Westchester Municipal
Planning Federation said it all when they gave her the “Distinguished Service
Award for Community Planning” this past Spring. (to hear more of Trustee
Simon’s
comments,
you
may
log
onto
the
following
link:
https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1108 (section 56.59).
Village Manager Healy gave an overview of his memo regarding changes to the
Freedom of Information Policy and the reasons why he and the Board felt it
was appropriate to change the Appeals Officer from the Board to the Village
Manager. Village Manager Healy explained that there is a ten-day turn around
to respond to an Appeal and since our Board Members are part time employees
and only meet once a week, it is a much better approach to allow that review
and decision to take place administratively. Village Manager Healy explained
that we receive very few appeals, last year the Village received three hundred
F.O.I.L. requests and there was only one appeal.
To view Village Manager Healy’s memo, you may click on the following link:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202511/6c122378325f367ba3f7684a98e95445ee8ee48f.pdf
Village Attorney Subin stated that this is a procedure that is best handled by a
non-partisan staff member rather than an elected Board, and this is a smart
move on the part of the Village. Village Attorney Subin responded to a concern
whether the Village Manager was part of the F.O.I.L and reminded everyone
that a Freedom of Information Request is for documents, not for information
on individual employees and before a request is denied he is always consulted
by the Village Clerk. Village Attorney Subin advised that someone can also file
an Article 78 if the denial is upheld.
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 8

1. Email from Christine Wagner announcing her resignation from the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202511/281c5e87a71db06c16931d44ac7eff7420f433d1.pdf
2. Year End Report from the Police Advisory Committee.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202511/c1d1fe4930b4767aa7866ed164cafe0d941d8a8a.pdf
3. Year End Report from the HEART Committee.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202511/c4ea6daf37eaa2ecf44f42849ef78a60327f71a3.pdf
4. Information on two upcoming affordable housing lotteries in White Plains
from Westchester County Government.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202511/cc8eb80351cd308d247fa323df722862d411e530.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #287-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
undertakes the following actions:
Accepting with regret the resignation of Christine Wagner from the Zoning Board of
Appeals effective December 31, 2025.
Filing for the record the annual report of the Police Advisory Committee.
Filing for the record the annual report of the HEART Committee.
Resolution #288-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 9

WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003, and
WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village fees through Board
Resolutions, and
WHEREAS the Village would like to correct the fee for winter kayak storage for Village
Senior Residents as listed in the Master Fee Schedule,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby amends
the 2025-2026 Master Fee Schedule as follows:

Recreation Department
Canoe/Kayak Winter Storage
(November to March)

§168-7

Village Resident –
Senior Rate

$80.00

c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on November
19, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #289-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, on July 5, 2022, the Village Board of Trustees adopted a Freedom of
Information Law (FOIL) Policy governing the release of public records in the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson; and
WHEREAS, under that policy, the Village Board of Trustees is currently designated as
the FOIL Appeals Officer regarding denial of access to records under the Freedom of
Information Law; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees wishes to designate the Village Manager as
the FOIL Appeals Officer moving forward,

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 10

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Board of Trustees hereby adopts the
updated FOIL Policy as attached hereto designating the Village Manager as the FOIL
Appeals Officer; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that such change shall be prospective in nature, with
appeals filed on requests submitted on or before December 1, 2025, remaining with
the Village Board of Trustees.
Resolution #290-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village contracts with a cleaning services company to assist the
Department of Public Works with maintaining Village-owned buildings and facilities;
and
WHEREAS, the contract for the current cleaning company has expired; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson recently solicited sealed bids for this work
under Bid No. 17-2025; and
WHEREAS, six bids were submitted by the deadline of November 10, 2025; and
WHEREAS, the lowest responsible bid received was from Cleaning Services of Hudson
Valley of Garnerville, New York, in the amount of $4,150 per month; and
WHEREAS, Frank Balbi, Superintendent of Public Works, has reviewed the bids and
recommends moving forward with the low bidder,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
award Bid No. 17-2025 to Cleaning Services of Hudson Valley, of Garnerville, New
York, in the amount of $4,150 per month; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for these services has been allocated in
account A1620.4040.
Resolution #291-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 11

WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has used Laserfiche as a repository for
Village documents for a number of years, and
WHEREAS the Village has used SeamlessDocs to accept online forms and payments
for a number of years, and
WHEREAS Laserfiche has submitted a proposal to upgrade its existing platform to a
cloud-based system and adding a module to accept forms and payments, and
WHEREAS this unified solution will make storing forms easier for record retention
purposes and allow the Village to discontinue the use of SeamlessDocs,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees authorizes the
Village Manager to accept the proposal from Laserfiche in the amount of $9,946, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Treasurer is authorized to make the
following budget transfer in the 2025-2026 General Fund Budget:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A6410.4000

Publicity - Contractual

$9,946

MCTM Payroll Tax

$9,946

Decrease
A1980.4000

8. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, asked what is the current
pay for the Mayor and Trustees as compared to the Town of Cortlandt
Supervisor and Town Board members, what is the status of the Hansberry
Committee, believes that it is a bad idea for the Village to be a member of the
International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives and asked if the
Village is still a member, asked what is the status of the energy
transmission cable coming across the Hudson River, stated that a lot of
F.O.I.L. requests come from businesses who are trying to promote their
business, and addressed his objections to CVS carrying an abortion drug.
Debi Braddick, 23 Young Avenue, Croton on Hudson, asked if the comment
period under non-agenda items are for local government business only

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 12

because she is offended by certain remarks that have been made with respect
to abortion issues.
Village Attorney Subin explained that generally the village would prefer to only
talk about local Village issues, but the Village cannot regulate the content of
what people would like to talk about and the Village is not going to engage in
content moderation.
Mayor Pugh stated that this is an open forum and people are free to speak.
9. REPORTS:
Trustee Slippen congratulated Mayor Pugh and Trustee Nicholson on their reelection and welcomed Trustee Nachtaler, thanked the Department of Public
Works for all their hard work picking up leaves and encouraged the Village to
try to get the word out about the appropriate way to put leaves out for pickup, she looks forward to our holiday kick-off this Thursday, asked that the
Village put information out on the website regarding the Home Energy
Assistance Program and to also link the Town’s recreation programs on our
website. For information on the Home Energy Assistance Program, you may
log onto the following website. https://otda.ny.gov/programs/heap/.
Trustee Nachtaler thanked the Board and staff for spending time with her and
getting her up to speed and looks forward to working hard for our Village
residents, she also encouraged residents to shop locally during the holiday
season.
Trustee Nicholson asked Village Manager Healy for an update on the Bari Manor
residents that have been displaced.
Village Manager Healy stated that things are progressing, work has begun on
one of the fire damaged apartments but would like to formulate a more formal
response at our next meeting.
Trustee Simon advised that on November 20th a meeting was held with our
Bicycle/Pedestrian Committee where we talked about the Project Mover and
the Voucher program, on November 22nd a second bike skills training class was
held, ABC is busy planning exciting activities, on November 25th he and the
Mayor attended the Fire Council meeting and we updated them on the recent
EMS LOSAP Resolution and shared with them a letter we wrote to Metro North
urging them to meet with the Village to talk about doing a better job on
handling safety issues that interact with our Fire and EMS Services, on

Village Board of Trustees
December 1, 2025
Page 13

November 27 a very successful turkey trot was held at Spencer Field with
proceeds going to the Maria Fareri Children’s Hospital, and welcomed back
Mayor Pugh and Trustee Nicholson and welcomed Stacy Nachtaler to the
Board.
Mayor Pugh stated that it was very encouraging to see the Upper Village
humming with activity this past Wednesday evening, it was a good evening for
some of our local businesses and hopefully we can capture that energy and
sustain it as we go through the holiday season.
Trustee Nicholson advised that the Lorriane Hansberry Coalition is a subcommittee of our IDEA Committee.
Village Manager Healy advised that the Mayor is paid $5,000 annually and the
Trustees are paid $3,000 annually and those amounts have not changed since
2001.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 9:49pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

