Planning Board Meeting Minutes
October 7, 2025
8:00 p.m.
PRESENT: Rob Luntz APPROVED
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Ron Wegner, P.E., Assistant Village Engineer
Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
Dan Pozin, Village Attorney

ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
1. CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of October 7, 2025 to order at 8: p.m.
2. PUBLIC HEARING

a) Croton Riverside, LLC — 25 South Riverside Ave. (78.8-5-43) — Amended Site Plan for
Three — Story Multi-Family Building

Ralph Rossi and Phil Spagnoli of Croton Riverside, LLC were present in support of the application. The
applicants noted that nothing had changed from the last Planning Board meeting. As requested, the
applicants provided an updated landscape plan, dated September 25, 2025, that included the planting of
arborvitaes as per agreement with neighbors on Barton Place. It was noted that the arborvitaes will be 8-
10 feet tall. Steve Krisky asked the applicants if they considered planting ivy, or a similar vegetation on
the retaining wall at the rear of the building and the applicants said that they do plan to plant something,
but are not sure yet if it will be planted from the bottom to grow up, or the top to grow down. The area
above the parking lot has been seeded with wild grass seeds.

It was mentioned that there is a substantial difference in grade between the handicapped entrance and
the street, and the applicant said that there is an ADA lift made from steel. Pedestrians will use stairs to
come to the front entrance. The original ramp that was proposed was a large mass of concrete; the new
proposal will allow for a softer front and larger planting area along the north end of the building.

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to open a public hearing on this amended site plan, seconded Steve
Krisky, and the motion carried, 5 — 0.

There were no comments from the audience, but Geoff Haynes noted a letter from neighbor Lauren Davis
that was read out by Chairman Luntz. A copy of that letter is attached to these minutes. In response to
the letter, the Planning Board stated that the project has already been approved and that the changes
proposed by this amended site plan have no impact on the issues brought up in the email. Eva Thaddeus
noted that all the changes in the amended site plan application currently before the Planning Board
pertain to the front of the building, and the concerns raised in the email from Lauren Davis all pertain to
the rear of the building.

Being that there were no further comments from the audience, Geoff Haynes made a motion to close the
public hearing, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried 5 - 0.


Steve Krisky would like a condition added to the resolution regarding the landscaping in the rear of the
property, stating that ivy, or a similar vegetation would be planted on the retaining wall in the rear of the
property to further “green” the wall. The landscape plan should also be updated to include this additional
planting.

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve amended site plan for Croton Riverside, LLC, with three
conditions as discussed, including the landscape plans being updated and certification for the retaining
wall being submitted to the Engineering Office before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued, seconded by
Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 5 — 0.

1. NEW BUSINESS

Referral from the Village Board of Trustees to review draft Local Law Introductory No. 14 of 2025 to
permit the Village Board of Trustees to appoint an alternate member to the Planning Board and Zoning
Board of Appeals for the term of one official year.

Deputy Mayor Len Simon spoke and said that the idea of having alternate members for the Zoning Board
of Appeals and the Planning Board came up after it was noted that most of the surrounding communities
already have alternate board members in place. The mayor would appoint an alternate member, a
different appointee for each board.

The Planning Board had several concerns regarding an alternate member. One concern was that if an
alternate member was sitting on the dais, they could potentially steer discussions, then not have a vote.

it was also noted that the Planning Board generally has a full board, with members missing few meetings.
It was suggested that alternate members would be required to take continuing education credits.

It was noted that an applicant could request to not have a vote on their application if the Planning Board
does not have a full quorum.

Dan Pozin added that he could not think of another Village that does not have alternate members and
thinks that it would be helpful, noting that if a Planning Board member had to miss several meetings, it
could delay an applicant.

Ed Riely of Truesdale Drive spoke and said that it would be more appropriate to have an alternate for the
Village Board of Trustees. Mr. Riely respects the judicial temperament of the Planning Board.

In summary, the Planning Board thought that several valid concerns were raised and thought that an
alternate member may be more important for other board’s where attendance may have been an issue in
the past. It was also noted that getting more members of the community involved is a good idea but
maybe it could be done in other creative ways. It was also noted that there are vacancies on other
Village boards.

The Planning Board read a draft memo to the Board of Trustees regarding Parkland Fees, and requested
that it be edited to express their request to waive the parkland fee for accessory dwelling units, to have

consistency with accessory apartments.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes September 16", 2025


John Ghegan made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of September 16, 2025 as
amended, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 — 0, with Steve Krisky
abstaining as he was absent on September 16%, 2025.

It was noted that the Village Manager requested that the Planning Board consider moving the meetings to
the second and fourth Tuesday of each month. The Planning Board currently meets on the first and third
Tuesday of each month. Attorney Dan Pozin mentioned that the switch came about because the second
and fourth Tuesdays are preferable for the planning consultant and for legal. The Planning Board would
be okay with the change, but noted that the schedules for other Village Boards would have to be moved
around to accommodate the change.

4. ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:51 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton

Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended, with a motion by Steve Krisky, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and
carried by a vote of 5 — 0, on November 4", 2025***


DRAFT RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, on Tuesday, October 7", 2025, the Planning Board held a public hearing for an
Amended Site Plan application submitted by Croton Riverside LLC, hereafter known as “the
Applicant,” for the property located at 21-27 South Riverside Avenue (also referred to as “25 South
Riverside Avenue’) in the Riverside Transition C-1R(B) Zoning District and designated on the Tax
Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 78.8 Block 5 Lot 43, and

WHEREAS, this amended site plan application is for modifications to the retaining walls geometry
and the elimination of the large concrete ADA ramp to be replaced with an ADA lift at this three-
story, multi-family apartment building located at 25 South Riverside Avenue and; and

WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and

WHEREAS, all conditions from the Site Plan approval for a new three-story, multi-family
apartment building and associated parking for this applicant issued on September 28, 2021 remain
in effect; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Amended Site Plan application as shown on
plans A-200 “Building Elevations,” and AS-101, entitled “Architectural Site Plan,” last revised on
September 2, 2025, prepared by Design Development Architects of White Plains, and “Riverside
Apartments Landscape Plan, prepared by William Harris Einhorn, RLA of F Capparelli Landscape
Design, last revised on August 9", 2025 be approved subject to the following conditions:

1) That, the landscape plans are updated to include the improvements discussed with
neighbors on Barton Place.

2) That, certification for the new retaining wall will be submitted to the Engineering
Office prior to the certificate of occupancy being issued.

3) That, ivy, or similar vegetation be planted on the retaining wall in the rear of the
property to further “green” the wall. The landscape plan must be updated to include
this additional planting.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York

Rob Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan

Geoffrey Haynes

Steve Krisky

Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5 to 0.

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on October 7th, 2025.
