MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Jan. 18, 2026 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Edwin Adkins
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coord.)
Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE

Absent:

Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Carly Shanks
Len Simon (Village Trustee)
Cheryl Wong (food scrap program)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): none.
Announcements: none
- EV/EVSE/RD
EV charger project at the train station: The contractor (PISO) has applied for the
system’s new electric service. A pole-mounted transformer (100-300 kVA) will be needed
to handle the 18 charge ports, with sufficient capacity for future faster chargers (i.e.,
having greater kW load). Weather permitting, excavation is slated to start in early March.
Renewable Diesel (RD): Len reported that the 3-month pilot test was successfully
completed this month. RD will now fuel our 18 diesel vehicles, cutting the Village’s
municipal carbon footprint by ~12.5%. He said DPW Supt. Frank Balbi was “upbeat” on
the results and that attendees at a recent meeting of municipal officials in the County
were eager to learn more about Croton’s RD experience. A Village press release on the
change will be issued later this month.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Third-party commissioning is now slated to start 2/16/26 with
power startup by early or mid-March. On New Year’s Day evening, the lights below all the
canopies failed due to a breaker trip, the cause of which is unknown. By the next
afternoon, the breaker was reset and all lights appear to be working properly. Sale of the
project (both PV and BESS) to Altus Power is in progress. It will have no effect on the rent
or leasing contract presently in place.
DPW solar canopy: Two new bids were received by the 12/8/25 deadline. Rivertowns’ bid
was preferable, but more paperwork from it is needed before the project is awarded.
- Heat Pumps / Electrification

1

On 12/16/25, NY State announced a new energy plan postponing (beyond 2040) the
2019 CLCPA goals of ending fossil-fueled power by 2040 and cutting GHG emissions by
40% by 2030 (relative to 1990). The new plan https://energyplan.ny.gov/Plans/2025Energy-Plan called for more renewables, 1 GW of new nuclear capacity, and “additional
zero-emission sources”. On 1/13/26, Gov. Hochul upped the new nuclear capacity goal to
5 GW (all upstate, but no timeline). NY presently has 3.3 GW of nuclear capacity.
- Other Programs
Food Scrap Recycling: the two extra toters and other materials Frank Balbi ordered last
month to expand the program are expected next week. Cheryl drafted announcements to
be issued shortly thereafter regarding the expansion. They will be emailed to all
participants and will appear in the Village’s two newsletters and Facebook page.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
BESS 2.0: At our 12/7/25 meeting, we reviewed the half-sized Luminace proposal at the
Municipal Place facility. Unfortunately, Luminace’s development director indicated that his
firm is now instead focusing on acquiring existing BESS projects rather than developing
them on its own. Issuing a RFP to other BESS developers, based on the present design,
is now under discussion. (Thank you again to Carly for her help creating a bidder list).
To maximize BESS size, the salt shed may be relocated so its space could temporarily
hold seasonal yard waste now stored at the Muni Place facility. Doing so would open
more area at Muni Place for the originally proposed 5 MW BESS. The salt shed site can’t
be used for a BESS because it’s not near a power line with hosting capacity. Len agreed
to accelerate that discussion with Village officials before our next meeting.
Expeditious pursuit of another BESS lease in Croton is imperative: last March, the
commercial BESS incentive dropped from $175 per stored kWh to $125. A lower
incentive results in lower lease rent. Funding for the incentive is rather limited and on a
first-come, first-served basis.
Lindsay attended two BESS events held last week by New Yorkers for Clean Power to
promote community support for batteries. The main presenter was Jeff Seidman, Vassar
College Assoc. Prof. of Env. Studies. The main takeaway was the minimal experience
and knowledge many communities have of their BESS options. Over 1 GW of BESS (42
– 420 MW each) has already been proposed in the downstate region.
A recent NY PSC proceeding on energy-related program funding indicated that the Clean
Energy Community (CEC) program that gave us >$700K in NYSERDA grants will be
restored this year (it was suspended in Nov. 2024). It would instead be funded via the
RGGI* during a 4-year transition as CEC merges with DEC’s Climate Smart Community
(CSC) program. We await details on how and when CEC will be revived.
*RGGI = the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, essentially a carbon tax paid via utility bills in 11 northeast and midAtlantic states that include New York. It uses market-based auctions for emission “allowances” that fund energy
projects focused on cutting power plant GHG and developing climate and health initiatives. Find details at
https://www.rggi.org/sites/default/files/Uploads/Fact%20Sheets/RGGI_Intro_Factsheet.pdf

2

- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
On 12/6/25, as per the annual requirement for all Village committees, Lindsay sent to
Bryan Healy a 1-page summary report on our committee’s activities in calendar 2025,
attached at the end of these minutes.
CAC’s next Repair Café is set for this Saturday, Feb. 28, 11 AM at the Croton Library.
Dave agreed to take a few pictures for future use to support our CSC status.
- New Business / Other Issues
On 12/15/25, Sustainable Westchester (SW) announced it will (in 2026) announce an
“Opt-In Clean Energy” program to replace the now defunct opt-out Community Choice
Aggregation (CCA). The new effort will act as a voluntary group purchase of renewable
power from an ESCo, without need for PSC approval or oversight. We await details.
Len summarized the success of the first phase of the e-bike sharing program, scheduled
to re-start this April with two more bike hubs (Senasqua Park and near the Riverside Ave.
pedestrian overpass). Find his informative memo at the end of these minutes.
Jon updated us on a NY DEC regulatory change (effective 1/1/26) to the acceptable types
of refrigerant for new HVAC systems (including HPWH). But new residential and small
commercial systems (up to 50 lbs of refrigerant) were given a variance until 1/1/27 due to
delays in rollout of new equipment having acceptable refrigerants (e.g., R32, R454B). For
HPWH, the variance only applies to 4 manufacturers. He noted that use of CO2 in HPWH
is under development but is not presently an option. To allow existing A/C systems to
continue operation, 75% of their replaced refrigerants must be from re-claimed sources.
Our next zoom meeting was set for Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026 at 10:00 AM.

3

Phase 1 of Project MOVER in Croton-on- Hudson: July 9th – December 19th, 2025
Total Trips
Croton hubs were involved in 1,374 trips: 1,281 were entirely within the Village and 93 trips
were between other municipalities (85 with the Village of Ossining, 2 with Tarrytown, and 2 with
Town of Ossining).

Rides by Croton Hub
Metro North

505

Upper Village

213

Croton Free Library

167

South Riverside

218

Maple Commons

151

Dobbs Park

86

TOTAL

1340

Top Hubs in the Project MOVER Region
Beekman Sleepy Hollow

671

Tarrytown Pierson Park

669

Tarrytown Metro North

586

Sykes Park Sleepy Hollow

531

Croton Metro North

505

The program will re-start in early April. It will be expanded to include two new bike hubs:
Senasqua Park and near the Riverside Ave. Rt. 9 overpass. Other sites are also being
considered. Sleepy Hollow is experimenting with winter operation.
E- bike vouchers ($1,000 each toward purchase of an e-bike) are now available to families
earning <$140K/yr.
Consideration is being given to post-NYSERDA operations and funding when the present grant
runs out in April 2027.

4

Accomplishments & activities of the Sustainability Committee during 2025
- promoted use of Renewable Diesel in all municipal diesel trucks
- developed and sought a contract for a ~60 kW DPW solar canopy
- secured contractor for installation of EV chargers at the train station
- enlisted and welcomed new committee members
- extended terms for NY DEC and NYSERDA grant contracts
- hosted Committee table and exhibit at Earth Day
- initiated a textile recycling booth at Earth Day
- continued oversight and operation of the food scrap program and community gardens
- supported and monitored another residential Solarize campaign
- researched options for new revenue: community solar for street lighting accounts, demand
response payments for new EV charger installation, leasing rent for new battery installation,
federal DirectPay incentive for solar installations
- held walking tour of train station canopies for Yonkers Groundwork Hudson Valley group
- held 9 zoom meetings of the Committee that addressed those and other issues
- secured/pursued various media coverage of our activities (e.g., Journal News 1/12/25 feature)
Recommendations to the Village Board (via communications with the Village Manager)
- fund and expand the food scrap program to include a new scrap shed and equipment
- sign EV charger installation contract
- pursue installation of ~60 kW DPW solar canopy funded by NYSERDA grant
Areas of collaboration with other committees
- Earth Day participation via the CAC
- promoted and photographed CAC’s Repair Café
Goals and priorities for the upcoming year
- purchase and install 18 more EV charge ports at the train station parking lot
- award contract for and install a ~60 kW solar canopy at the DPW parking lot
- expand use of Renewable Diesel to all Village diesel trucks
- expand food scrap recycling program participation
- develop Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) at or near the Municipal Place facility
- near year’s end, replace six old Harmon firehouse rooftop A/C units with heat pumps
Budget requests
- $6K appropriation for food scrap program expansion
- grant-funded Municipal Solar contract for assistance with DPW solar canopy development

5

