Planning Board Meeting Minutes
December 9, 2025
8:00 p.m.

APPROVED

PRESENT: Rob Luntz
         John Ghegan
         Geoffrey Haynes
         Steve Krisky
         Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Vincent Salanitro, P.E., Village Engineer
              Stacey Nachtaler, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
              Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison
              Dan Pozin, Village Attorney

CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of December 9, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

1. NEW BUSINESS

a) Franzoso, Mark - 23 Nordica Drive (79.13-4-64) Amended Minor Site Plan for Retaining Wall around Contour of Property

For the record, Steve Krisky reported that he had an unsolicited conversation with the applicant's neighbor Russ Davies at the Black Cow Coffee Shop, but he did not feel the need to recuse himself from hearing this application, due to the fact that the only subjects discussed were already part of the public record.

Property owner Mark Franzoso was present in support of the application. The applicant said that he was asked to come back to the Planning Board for amended minor site plan approval, but in the past, he would submit an as-built drawing at the end of a project. When asked to talk about the changes to his project, the applicant said that after the house was put up, he started to work on the landscaping, and the retaining wall was moved slightly. The applicant constructed new retaining walls and steps along the south side of the property and enclosed the retaining wall on the north side of the property The retaining walls are closer to the property lines than the approved resolution walls. The applicant said that he dealt with the property and tried to make it look as nice as possible. The applicant asked the Village Engineer if everything was zoning compliant and Village Engineer Vinny Salanitro said that it was. As per Vincent Salanitro, the applicant's changes deviated from the Minor Site Plan approved on June 20, 2023, but while the north-side retaining wall has been built closer to the property line than originally approved, it remains compliant with applicable zoning requirements.

Chairman Luntz brought up a letter that he received from Levin Law Group, who represents Russell H. Davies, who resides at 27 Nordica Drive, and whose property is immediately adjacent to the subject property at 23 Nordica Drive. The letter states that Mr. Davies retained the law firm to address ongoing violations of the Village Code, Section 230-170 (a copy of the letter is attached to these minutes). The letter was also sent to several Village employees. Chairman Luntz asked Village Attorney Dan Pozin to weigh in on the letter and Dan Pozin stated that the current application before the Planning Board addresses the issues raised in the letter. More specifically, Dan Pozin notes that if this current amended minor Site Plan application is approved, then the concerns brought up in the letter from Levin Law Group will have been addressed. Dan Pozin also said that, as is normal procedure, a final inspection will be required and a certificate of occupancy would not be issued if the work was not done according to the plans and Village code.

The applicant was asked if he anticipated any additional changes and he said that he did not. John Ghegan asked the applicant if he could move the port-a-potty away from the fire hydrant. The applicant stated that he was cleaning up the property this week, waiting for two windows to be delivered. The applicant will finish the plantings in the spring, and maybe add a cherry tree. The original landscape plan remains in effect.

Chairman Luntz read out the draft resolution, reiterating to the applicant that all conditions of the original Minor Site Plan resolution dated June 20, 2023 remain in effect, including the requirement that an updated as-built survey be included with the application for a certificate of occupancy. When asked his opinion about the level of change with this application, Chairman Luntz said that historically, the Village Engineer has some discretion, and that the Planning Board is not involved with enforcement, and while the changes were not big changes, what was done was not what was on the approved plans. Chairman Luntz asked the Village Engineer if he was comfortable with the walls, as currently built and Vincent Salanitro said that he was.

Geoff Haynes made a motion to approve the Amended Minor Site Plan resolution for Mark Franzoso at 23 Nordica Drive, including that he needs to submit an as-built survey prior to a certificate of occupancy being issued, seconded by John Gheehan, and carried, 5 - 0.

2. OLD BUSINESS

a) Update Planning Board Rules & Procedures

The Planning Board discussed some minor changes to the Rules and Procedures, adopted on August 21, 2024, and revised on December 17, 2024. The changes are below in italics as follows:

1) Regular Meetings - Regular meetings will be on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month.
2) General Rules of Procedure: Section a) will be updated to say that "In the Chairperson's absence, the Deputy Chairperson will step in as Acting Chairperson."
3) Guidelines for Public Comment at Public Hearings: Section h) Interested parties or their representatives may address the Board by written communication. For public hearings, as well as other agenda items, written communications submitted in advance are considered at the hearings and provided as backup material. Written communication shall be submitted by 12 noon on the day prior to the meeting for inclusion in the backup material of the meeting. Anything received after that time may be included, depending on staff availability.
4) Guidelines for Public Comment Related to Agenda Items Not Subject to Public Hearings: Section i) Applicants will not have a time limit to speak and k) Interested parties or their representatives may address the Board by written communication. Written communication shall be submitted by 12 noon on the day prior to the meeting for inclusion in the backup material of the meeting. Anything received after that time may be included, depending staff availability..
5) The Planning Board discussed taking time to discuss reports from Planning Board members who are liaisons to other Village Boards, and other relevant updates from the Village Engineer.

Steve Krisky made a motion to adopt the revised Planning Board Rules & Procedures with the changes listed above, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried, 5 - 0.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes November 14, 2025

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of November 4, 2025 as amended, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

4. ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 8:55 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved, as amended on Tuesday, January 27, 2026 with a motion by Steve Krisky, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried, 5 - 0***

FINAL RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Planning Board approved a Minor Site Plan application on June 20, 2023, for Mark Franzoso, "the Applicant" for the construction of a New Single-Family House; and

WHEREAS, the subject property is located at 23 Nordica Drive in the RA-9 Single-Family Zoning District and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.13 Block 4 Lot 64; and

WHEREAS, the application is for Amended Minor Site Plan approval for a revised retaining wall configuration which differs from the retaining wall approved as part of the original minor site plan; and

WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Amended Minor Site Plan application, as shown on the application dated November 24, 2025, photographs of existing conditions, and Drawing Number 1/1, entitled "Site Plan," prepared by Ciarcia Engineering, P.C., of Yorktown, last revision date November 21, 2025, be approved, with the following conditions:

1. All conditions listed on the Minor Site Plan resolution dated June 20th, 2023 remain in effect.
2. An as-built survey of the property shall be submitted with the application for a certificate of occupancy.

The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York

Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by John Ghegan, and carried by a vote of 5-0.

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, December 9th, 2025.
