WATERFRONT ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING
Wednesday, February 18, 2026 4:30 p.m.
Small Conference Room

APPROVED

PRESENT   Len Simon, Chairperson
          Stuart Greenbaum (Absent)
          Steve Krisky
          Stacey Nachtaler (Absent)
          Leo Wiegman

ALSO PRESENT: Vincent Salanitro, P.E. Village Engineer
              Bryan Healy, Village Manager

1) CALL TO ORDER

Chairman Simon called the Waterfront Advisory Committee meeting of February 18, 2026 to order at 4:31 p.m.

2) REFERRALS

a) Referral from Village Board of Trustees for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) Consistency Review for Local Law Introductory 3 of 2026 that addresses a number of inconsistencies within the Zoning Code, update certain definitions and amend the number of fowl permitted on residential properties.

Vincent Salanitro said that the current Zoning Code was amended to clarify some definitions that will make the Code easier to understand and administer. Bryan Healy added that the changes address inconsistencies throughtout the code.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.

Leo Wiegman made a motion to accept the Coastal Assessment Form, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with Stacey Nachtaler and Stuart Greenbaum being absent.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were no changes necessary.

Steve Krisky made a motion to accept the Short Environmental Assessment Form, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with Stacey nachtaler and Stuart Greenbaum being absent.

The WAC reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and found that none were applicable, as noted in the memo attached. Since there is nothing in the referrals that is inconsistent, the WAC made a recommendation of consistency.

MOTION: Steve Krisky made a recommendation of consistency, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with Stacey Nachtaler and Stuart Greenbaum being absent.

3. APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the minutes of the WAC meeting of October 14, 2025, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and the motion carried, 3 - 0, with Stacey Nachtaler and Stuart Greenbaum being absent.

It was noted that the way that New York State law is set up, any change to the Zoning Code requires an opinion of Local Waterfront Revitalization Program.

4. ADJOURNMENT:

There being no further business, Leo Wiegman made a motion for adjournment, seconded by Steve Krisky, and the meeting adjourned at 4:47 p.m.

Respectfully submitted, Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Waterfront Advisory Committee

***Minutes accepted on February 24, 2026 with a motion by Steve Krisky, seconded by Leo Wiegman, and carried 3 - 0, with Len Simon and Stuart Greenbaum being absent***

---

Village of Croton-on-Hudson

Waterfront Advisory Committee
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
One Van Wyck Street
Croton-on-Hudson, NY 10520-2501

Chairman
LEN SIMON
Members
STUART GREENBAUM
STEVE KRISKY
STACEY NACHTALER
LEO WIEGMAN
Village Engineer
VINCENT SALANITRO, P.E.
Secretary
KAREN STAPLETON

TO:     Mayor Brian Pugh and the Village Board of Trustees

FROM:   Chairman Simon, Waterfront Advisory Committee

RE:     Referral from Village Board for a Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP)
        Consistency review for Local Law Introductory 3 of 2026 that addresses a number of
        inconsistencies within the Zoning Code, updates certain definitions and amends the
        number of fowl permitted on residential properties.

DATE:   February 19, 2026

On Wednesday, February 18, 2026, the Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC) reviewed for consistency with the Village's Local Waterfront Revitalization Program (LWRP) the referral listed above. Based on the Committee's review of the 44 LWRP policies, the Waterfront Advisory Committee made a recommendation of consistency with the LWRP.

The proposed changes address inconsistencies found throughout the Zoning Code, thereby making the code easier to understand and administer.

The WAC reviewed the Short Environmental Assessment Form and determined that there were no changes necessary.

The WAC reviewed the Coastal Assessment Form and no changes were noted.

The committee reviewed the 44 LWRP policies and determined that none were applicable.

It is for the reasons contained in this memorandum that the WAC issues its recommendation of consistency.
