Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, December 17, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at
the Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Slippen
Trustee Nachtaler

The following Officials were absent:
Trustee Nicholson
1. Mayor Pugh called the regular meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 26003535-26003854. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nachtaler and approved with a 4-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$595,191.35
$46,184.10
$27,340.05
$238,694.40
$7,055.02

3. Recognition of Police Officer Nicholas DiTomasso being assigned to the
Detective Division in the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department
4. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Motion to open a Public Hearing to hear comments on Local Law
Introductory No. 14 of 2025 to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the
Village Code to allow for alternate members on the Planning Board and
Zoning Board of Appeals was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Slippen and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Public Comments:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he believes this
is an unnecessary action based on attendance records, if members have a
difficult time attending meetings then they should just be replaced. Mr. Riely

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 2

stated that he is concerned this could be used as an excuse to not attend
meetings.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the Public Hearing was made by Trustee Slippen, motion was seconded by
Trustee Simon and approved with a 4-0 vote.

Motion to open a Public Hearing to hear comments on Local Law
Introductory No. 17 of 2025 to amend Chapter 90, Buildings, Unsafe,
of the Village Code to amend the provision relating to the
establishment of liens was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded
by Trustee Nachtaler and approved with a 4-0 vote.
There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the Public
Hearing was made by Trustee Simon, motion was seconded by Trustee Nachtaler and
approved with a 4-0 vote.
Resolution #292 of 2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson no longer serves as an assessment unit
following the adoption of Local Law 5 of 2025, and
WHERAS Chapter 90, Buildings, Unsafe, of the Village Code references the former
Village Assessor position, and
WHEREAS Chapter 90 does not currently include an appeals process for property
owners to follow if they wish to contest the establishment of a lien against their
property, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2025 has been drafted to update these
provisions, and
WHEREAS a Public Hearing was opened and closed on December 17, 2025, and
WHEREAS the Village Board has determined the adoption of Local Law Introductory
No. 17 of 2025 to be a Type II action under the State Environmental Quality Review
Act, requiring no environmental review,

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 3

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 17 of 2025 to update Chapter 90, Buildings, Unsafe, of
the Village Code related to the provisions for establishment of a lien, which upon
adoption becomes Local Law No. 19 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Slippen urged staff to continue to communicate the changes with the
community.
5. LWRP Consistency Review and EAF Part II Review for Local Law
Introductory No. 14 of 2025.
EAF PART II
No, or
small
impact
may
occur
1. Will the proposed action create a material conflict with an adopted land use plan
or zoning Regulations?

√

2. Will the proposed action result in a change in the use or intensity of use of land?

√

3. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of the existing
community?

√

4. Will the proposed action have an impact on the environmental characteristics
that caused the establishment of a Critical Environmental Area (CEA)?

√

5. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change in the existing
level of traffic or affect existing infrastructure for mass transit, biking
or walkway? .

√

6.

Will the proposed action cause an increase in the use of energy and it fails
to incorporate reasonably available energy conservation or renewable
energy opportunities?

7. Will the proposed action impact existing:
a. public / private water supplies?
b. public / private wastewater treatment utilities?
8. Will the proposed action impair the character or quality of important historic,
archaeological, architectural or aesthetic resources?

√
√
√
√

Moderate
to large
impact
may
occur

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 4

9. Will the proposed action result in an adverse change to natural resources
(e.g., wetlands, waterbodies, groundwater, air quality, flora and fauna)?

√

10. Will the proposed action result in an increase in the potential for erosion,
flooding or drainage problems?

√

11. Will the proposed action create a hazard to environmental resources or
human health?

√

LWRP Consistency Review
6.

1

1A

1B

1C

2
2A

3

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

Applicable
Yes/No

Restore,
revitalize,
and
redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro-North train
station, while facilitating public access to
the bay area and recreational use.
Encourage restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and
assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Encourage the appropriate re-use of the
old sewage treatment plant site at the
intersection of Route 9A and Municipal
Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters.
Encourage water-enhanced commercial
uses where such uses complement water
dependent uses and do not result in
displacement of such uses.
Further develop the State’s existing major
ports of Albany, Buffalo, New York,
Ogdensburg and Oswego as centers of
commerce and industry, and encourage
the siting, in these port areas, including
those under the jurisdiction of State public
authorities, of land use and development
which is essential to, or in support of,
waterborne transportation of cargo and
people.

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 5

4

5

5A

6
6A

7

7A

7B

7C

Strengthen the economic base of smaller
harbor areas by encouraging the
development and enhancement of those
traditional uses and activities which have
provided such areas with their unique
maritime identity.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Coastal Fish and Wildlife
Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant
Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be protected
and improved for conservation, economic,
aesthetic, recreational, and other public
uses and values. Its resources shall be
protected from the threat of pollution,
misuse, and mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat and
the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of or
allowed to drain in, or on land within, the
area of influence in the significant fish and
wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat or
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted
within the area of influence of the habitat
unless best available technology is used to
prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 6

7D

7E

7F

7G

7H

8

9

9A

9B

Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitats and shorelands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of
any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
site
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively managed so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact to the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity in the Croton River and Hudson
River spawning areas shall be timed so
that spawning of anadromous fish species
and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause significant degradation of water
quality or impact identified significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Habitat-related policies identified in the
Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed
Conservation Action Plan will be
considered in actions proposed for these
areas (see Appendix C).
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous waste and other pollutants
which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub-lethal or lethal
effects on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and wildlife
resources in coastal areas by increasing
access
to
existing
resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Village
owned land adjacent to the railroad parking
lot, at Croton Point Park, at Senasqua and
Croton Landing Parks, along the Croton
River, and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts
should be made to increase opportunities
for public access and enjoyment in these
areas.
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment
of the wildlife in the designated significant
fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon
Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle Arboretum,
Gouveia Park and on other public or
private lands within the Village where

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 7

10

11

12

12A

13

14

15

16

wildlife habitats are located, as well as the
protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new, or improvement of
existing onshore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
State's seafood products, maintaining
adequate
stocks
and
expanding
aquaculture facilities.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion.
Activities or development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs.
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier to
Croton Bay from activities or development
that would increase erosion of or flooding
of the point.
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at least
thirty years as demonstrated in design and
construction standards and/or assured
maintenance or replacement programs.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site of
such activities or development, or at other
locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which supply
beach materials to land adjacent to such
waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase in
erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or adjacent
to an erosion hazard area to be able to
function, or existing development; and only
where the public benefits outweigh the

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 8

17

17A

18

19
19A

19B

19C

19D

20

21

21A

long term monetary and other costs
including the potential for increasing
erosion and adverse effects on natural
protective features.
Non-structural measures to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion shall be used
whenever possible.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes inland shall be of
a non-structural nature, wherever possible,
to minimize the visual impact of structural
measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the State
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to the
safeguards
which the State has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities
Encourage the linkage of open space from
upland areas to and along the Hudson and
Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or
walkway system.
Increase public access to areas that offer
physical and visual connections to the
Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the improvement of public
transportation, when feasible, where water
dependent and water-enhanced recreation
activities are located.
Improve and maintain access to Croton
River and Bay at the Village-owned Echo
Canoe Launch south of the Village parking
lots at the Croton-Harmon Station
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner compatible
with adjoining uses. 19 Protect, maintain,
and increase the level and types of access
recreation
to
public
water-related
resources and facilities.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast.
Boating and fishing activities should be
encouraged provided that they do not
restrict other water-related recreational
opportunities and are undertaken in a

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 9

22

23

24

25

25A

26
27

28

29

manner compatible with existing waterdependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the
shore will provide for water-related
recreation whenever such use is
compatible with reasonably anticipated
demand for such activities and is
compatible with the primary purpose of the
development.
HISTORIC AND SCENIC QUALITY
POLICIES
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, areas or sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of
statewide significance. (The nearest
scenic area of statewide significance
(SASS) is the Bear Mountain Park subunit
of the Hudson Highlands SASS which is
north of the Village)
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified
as
being
of
statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Establish and protect identified public
viewsheds of the Hudson River, including
but not limited to the public views of the
Hudson River from the western shoreline
of the Village, and of the Croton River and
Gorge.
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Conserve and protect agricultural lands in
the State’s coastal area.
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
interfere
with
the
production
of
hydroelectric power, damage significant
coastal fish and wildlife and their habitats,
or increase shoreline erosion or flooding..
The development of offshore uses and
resources, including renewable energy
resources, shall accommodate New York’s
long-standing ocean and Great Lakes
industries, such as commercial and
recreational
fishing
and
maritime

No

No

No

No

No

No
No
No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 10

30

30A

31

32

33

33A

34

34A
35

36

commerce, and the ecological functions of
habitats important to New York.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited to, toxic and hazardous substances,
into coastal waters will conform to State
and National water quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose of any
regulated materials in coastal waters until
all such regulated materials have been
tested by the State for conformance with
water quality standards.
State coastal area policies and
management objectives of approved local
waterfront revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal water
classifications and while modifying water
quality standards; however, those waters
already overburdened with contaminants
will be recognized as being a
development constraint.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax base
of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used to
ensure the control of stormwater runoff and
combined sewer overflows draining into
coastal waters.
The flow of stormwater discharge shall be
controlled to limit the flow of pollutants from
street, and parking areas, etc. directly into
the rivers and water bodies.
Discharge of waste materials into coastal
waters from vessels subject to State
jurisdiction will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply
areas..
Moored structures or marine vessels shall
not discharge ballast water or other
releases into the waterway.
Dredging and filling in coastal waters and
disposal of dredged material will be
undertaken in a manner that meets existing
State permit requirements, and protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic
resources, natural protective features,
important agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 11

37

37A

38

39

40

41
42

43

44
44A

that will prevent or at least minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these spills
occur.
Best management practices will be utilized
to minimize the non-point discharge of
excess nutrients, organics and eroded
soils into coastal waters.
Control of the development of hilltops and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid waste, particularly
hazardous waste, within coastal areas will
be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to State water quality standards..
Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or State air
quality standards to be violated.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the State reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of acid rain precursors:
nitrates and sulfates.
WETLAND POLICY
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits derived
from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No
No

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 12

7. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
8. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, emphasized that all
committee members should be Village residents, asked who is responsible for
committee web pages and recommended that Village staff oversee those sites,
asked if the Village is still a member of the ICLEI Local Governments for
Sustainability, objects to the Village requiring a fee to register on the Village’s
Rental Property Registry, asked for an explanation on the Van Cortlandt Manor
entrance project, asked for an explanation on bidding for plumbing, HVAC and
electricians and supports the $16.00 an hour for seasonal employees.
9. REPORT BY THE VILLAGE MANAGER:
Village Manager Healy addressed some questions raised this evening:
The Village has not been a member of the ICLEI - Local Governments for
Sustainability for at least 8 years and possibly longer.
At the time when the Board was creating the IDEA committee they did not
know how many people would be interested in serving and the resolution
indicated that the committee would be composed of no fewer than three
resident members, we have now superseded that resolution with a new
resolution that the committee is supposed to have between five and nine
members but it does not say anything about a minimum number being
residents or non-residents, there is no requirement that advisory committee
members be residents of the Village and that decision is up to the Board.
The Historic Hudson Valley was awarded a grant from the Federal Government
and the Village is just acting as a pass-through for these funds at no cost to
the Village. Village Manager Healy stated that Historic Hudson Valley will
eventually be taking over a portion of the roadway that is south of the southern
entrance to Shoprite and the Village will no longer have to maintain that
portion of the roadway, they are also going to be upgrading their water
infrastructure which will benefit the Village as well.
Because of increased costs for plumbers, electricians and HVAC contractors
and the requirement to meet the statutory bidding thresholds we were required
to go out to bid for these services, after consultation with the New York
Conference of Mayors the Village is rejecting these bids and we will be revising
the bid package.

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 13

Bari Manor Update: Fire Inspector Jim Ferguson has addressed outstanding
violations at Bari Manor that were found after the Memorial Day weekend fire,
all missing damaged or expired smoke detectors and carbon monoxide alarms
have been replaced, all areas needing proper fire rated materials have been
addressed, all appliances with flues that needed maintenance have been
addressed all apartment numbers now meet the standards in the Village Code,
all loose handrails and cracked sidewalks have been addressed, all outlets that
needed to be upgraded to GFCI have been addressed, and all accumulated
rubbish has been removed. The following items that remain pending include
testing of the fire hydrants, raising the rear fire hydrant, and painting of fire
lane lines. The fire damaged apartments 45 and 46 should be ready for
inspection by the Engineering Department in the coming weeks; apartments
49 and 50 are still in the process of being renovated, during a previous walkthrough, Engineer Salanitro and Inspector Ferguson observed smoke damage
to some apartment Air Conditioners and HVAC ductwork and they
recommended cleaning and air quality tests be performed prior to inspections
to ensure the quality of the air.
Village Manager Healy advised that EMS has moved into their new
headquarters and we hope to schedule a ribbon cutting in January, the Police
Department had put out a special traffic detail in June, since that time over
four hundred summons have been issued, (for more information you can check
the Police Blotter on the Village’s website), a zoom information meeting on the
Half Moon Bay Bridge project is scheduled for January 5th at 6pm and directed
everyone to the Project Page on the Village’s website for more information.
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/village-manager/pages/public-worksprojects.
10.CONSENT AGENDA:
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Slippen the Board
approved the Consent Agenda. Motion was approved with a 4-0 Vote.
Trustee Nachtaler stated that with respect to the Half Moon Bay Bridge Project,
she thought that the intent was to have a right-of-way or a single lane so that
when the bridge is under construction there could be one lane for traffic, but
in Section 5 of the contract it states that no right-of-way activities are
anticipated.
Village Manager Healy explained that Section 5 in the contract would only apply
if a project needed to acquire a right-of-way on property that was immediately

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 14

adjacent to the project, but this is not required in this instance and our plan is
to have one lane of travel across the bridge.
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Flyer Membership
Department.

changes

from

the

Croton-on-Hudson

Fire

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/1faab4fb43ff6f054301da33df56d42d685d7939.pdf
2. Election results from the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/745bd6e87db1206f1130822e872dd05806e1eb89.pdf
3. Letter from the Westchester County Youth Bureau awarding funding in
the amount of $5,000 to the Village for summer youth employment.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/130a799d00a4201a720dc6f90d59daccc5a4e71d.pdf
4. Annual reports from the following boards and committees: Advisory
Board on the Visual Environment, Arts & Humanities Advisory Council &
Sustainability Committee.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/cdc02bcdbc1b3f57e6cc7ea140eac9b9954e3514.pdf
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/d33b30434df67c54741019dfdce92984077410b7.pdf
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/122926e467bbacd6fd58eacd1b66a2d630056856.pdf
5. Notice of Liquor License Renewal for Croton Colonial Restaurant Diner.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/9b35f00b3f7255a15084eb36b31362513747878c.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #293-2025

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 15

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
undertakes the following actions:
1. Accepting the membership changes and election results from the Crotonon-Hudson Fire Department.
2. Filing for the record the liquor license renewal notice for Croton Colonial
Restaurant Diner.
3. Filing for the record the annual report of the Advisory Board of the Visual
Environment.
4. Filing for the record the annual report of the Arts & Humanities Advisory
Council.
5. Filing for the record the annual report of the Sustainability Committee.
6. Filing for the record the funding award letter from the Westchester County
Youth Bureau.
Resolution #294-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS Local Law No. 3 of 2003 was approved at a regular Village Board Meeting
held on October 7, 2003, and
WHEREAS this Local Law called for the setting of Village fees through Board
Resolutions, and
WHEREAS the Village would like to establish fees for the rental registry program
established under Local Law No. 16 of 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby amends
the 2025-2026 Master Fee Schedule as follows:

Engineering Department
Rental Registry Program

§186-21

Each rental unit, except
short-term rental unit
(triennial)
Short-term rental unit

$25.00
$25.00

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 16

(annual)
Maximum per property
Late registration fee
(after 30 days past due)
Late registration fee
(after 60 days past due)

$500.00
$100.00
$250.00

Resolution #295-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson assumed the ownership of and
maintenance requirements for the Half Moon Bay Bridge over the Metro-North
Railroad tracks in 1996, and
WHEREAS in order to address past safety issues and the proper maintenance of the
bridge, the Village is moving ahead with the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
Half Moon Bay Bridge, and
WHEREAS on February 7, 2024, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 292024 to accept the proposal from Tectonic Engineering of Rocky Hill, Connecticut, to
provide consulting and engineering design services for the project, and
WHEREAS the New York State Dept. of Transportation requires the Village and
Tectonic to enter into a formal consultant agreement,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute the Consultant Agreement with Tectonic Engineering.
Resolution #296-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the franchise agreement between the Village of Croton-on-Hudson and
Cablevision of Wappingers Falls, Inc. (dba Altice) is due to expire in December 2025,
and

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 17

WHEREAS the Village retained the services of Cohen Law Group to negotiate the
terms of a new franchise agreement, and
WHEREAS the new franchise agreement has been finalized and a public hearing is
required to be held before it can be approved,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of
Trustees hereby calls for a public hearing at 7:00 PM, on the 21st day of January,
2026, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal
Building, Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York, for all interested persons to be
heard in favor of or in opposition to the proposed renewal of the Cablevision of
Wappingers Falls, Inc. franchise for a period of 10 years.
Resolution #297-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson operates a sewer pump station at Half
Moon Bay, and
WHEREAS one of the pumps at the station recently malfunctioned and needed to be
replaced, and
WHEREAS it is best practice to have a spare pump on hand should unexpected issues
arise, and
WHEREAS the full cost of purchasing a spare pump was not included in the 20252026 Sewer Fund budget,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Treasurer to make the following budget transfer in the 20252026 Sewer Fund budget:
SEWER EXPENSES
Increase
G8120.4200

Sewer – Supplies

$6,000

Decrease
G1990.4000

Sewer - Contingency

$6,000

c. Approval of Minutes:

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 18

Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on November
5, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Slippen and approved with a 4-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on November
5, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Slippen and approved with a 4-0 vote.
d. Departmental Quarterly Reports:
Village Clerk:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/539ec33f96bbc628e11aae7afe36ac2a79eea3a3.pdf
Justice Court:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/6b795c0ffbf9e5909116c9343a211e796b391788.pdf
DPW:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/8bfc7cbe2dc291658e1ee5432912e10ca346fa5a.pdf
Engineering:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/92dc455c7c033210ad138afdb033dfd773a524ed.pdf
Village Manager:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/fe3ce30ba399e3de5808f244d9a38ec0ef57acb3.pdf
Parking:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/772cda3e5215eb6688cff61248882117f54b4785.pdf
Police:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/83ce53e29c07ea5dd78c027408f5ff06eaf5071f.pdf
Recreation:
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/a000e879cb4063b3aa9b7f4b677c3ec7392a40f2.pdf
Treasurer:

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 19

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202512/01145fc1101fb465d6d6acfd8647f545cc2ae8c5.pdf
11. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #298-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is legally required to follow the federally
mandated minimum wage for its employees which is currently set at $7.25 per hour,
and
WHEREAS New York State has adopted a minimum wage rate schedule for various
parts of the state, and
WHEREAS although the Village is exempt from these schedules, it recognizes the need
to set a higher minimum rate standard than the federal guidelines, and
WHEREAS the state minimum wage is scheduled to increase on January 1, 2026,
to $17 per hour for New York City and the counties of Nassau, Suffolk, and
Westchester, and to $16 per hour for the rest of the state, and
WHEREAS the Village Board of Trustees has decided that it would follow the schedule
set for the remainder of New York State, and
WHEREAS this minimum wage policy as adopted would apply to all seasonal part-time
employees of the Village, including, but not limited to, camp counselors, lifeguards,
gate attendants, and laborers,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to
implement a minimum wage of $16 per hour as of January 1, 2026, for all seasonal
part-time employees of the Village.
DISCUSSION:
Village Manager Healy advised that in the future these rates will be tied to the Rate
of Inflation.
Resolution #299-2025

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 20

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS flooding issues along Brook Street have existed for many years in the
Village, and
WHEREAS in 2023, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 142-2023 to
accept a proposal from D&B Engineers to conduct an updated drainage study along
the Brook Street drainage basin, and
WHEREAS the study has been completed and a preferred alternate has been selected
to improve drainage along Brook Street and Terrace Place, and
WHEREAS on October 8, 2025, the Village Board determined that the project was
consistent with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program and issued a
Negative Declaration under the State Environmental Quality Review Act, and
WHEREAS the Village has received funding for this project from Westchester County
in the amount of $701,000, and
WHEREAS an intermunicipal agreement has been drafted to memorialize this funding,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village
Manager to execute the intermunicipal agreement with Westchester County for funding
for the Brook Street Drainage Improvement Project in the amount of $701,000.
Resolution #300-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has been acting as the municipal sponsor
for the Van Cortlandt Manor Entrance Project (P.I.N. 8760.11) to reconfigure the
entrance, enhance site safety, and improve visitor experience at the National Historic
Landmark, and
WHEREAS, the project has undergone a public bidding process with the assistance of
the Village, which included an advertisement to bid on September 11, 2025; and
WHEREAS four bids were received on October 9, 2025, and

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 21

WHEREAS the bids received were reviewed and analyzed by the project engineer
(Bergmann / Colliers), and it was determined that Remus Industries of Ossining, New
York, provided the lowest responsive and complete bid, and
WHEREAS Historic Hudson Valley (HHV) has requested approval from the Village to
move forward with Remus Industries for the base bid amount of $1,707,521.40 and
total bid including alternates of $2,666,671.40, and
WHEREAS the approval of this contract is subject to the concurrence of the New York
State Department of Transportation (DOT), and
WHEREAS upon DOT concurrence, the Village, as the Project Sponsor, will enter into
a contract with Remus Industries,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees of the Village
of Croton-on-Hudson hereby approves the award of the contract for the restoration
of the Van Cortlandt Manor Entrance Project to Remus Industries, subject to the
concurrence of the New York State DOT, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Manager is authorized to execute any
necessary documents to enter into the contract with Remus Industries following DOT
approval.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon stated that when this project is completed it will be a great benefit to
the Village with greater access to that facility.
Resolution #301-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE SLIPPEN, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson issued an Invitation to Bid on October 30,
2025, for various trade labor services, and
WHEREAS, such a bid has been found to be necessary as the cost of labor increases
and projects approach state bidding thresholds in General Municipal Law Section 103,
and
WHEREAS eight bids were received at the time of the bid opening on November 13,
2025, and

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 22

WHEREAS a review of the bids found that not all bidders responded to all categories
and subcategories, which made determining the low bidder(s) impossible, and
WHEREAS in consultation with the New York Conference of Mayors, it has been
decided to reject the bids received and re-bid with clearer guidance to bidders,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson hereby rejects the bids received on November 13, 2025, for trade
labor services.
12. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, expressed his sadness on
the signing of the Assisted Suicide Bill, and his disappointment that there were
no open public hearings that would have given the public an opportunity to
comment.
13. REPORTS:
Trustee Slippen stated that we are still interviewing candidates for our various
committees and recommended giving preference, when we have a lot of people
who are applying, to village residents over school district residents, the
Harmon Firehouse driveway looks amazing and thanked our DPW for all their
contributions to making this happen, thanked DPW for a great job clearing our
streets during this last snow storm. Trustee Slippen referred to a recent
accident on Route 129 that closed that roadway and wished that
communications were sent out to residents alerting them to the closure.
Village Manager Healy explained that Route 129 is a State-owned roadway and
out of the Village’s jurisdiction, and the State is not good at communicating
these instances with the Village. Village Manager Healy stated that if we had
known about the road closure we would have gotten the word out to the public
but will discuss this with our emergency personnel to see if we can
communicate better when these instances occur.
Trustee Nachtaler stated that she is excited to start attending committee
meetings, she has already sat in on the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting as
well as a Planning Board meeting. Trustee Nachtaler advised that she hopes
to set up times to meet with members of the public who would like to connect
with her to share their thoughts and ideas. Trustee Nachtaler congratulated
the new officers of the Fire Department.

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 23

Trustee Simon thanked everyone for participating in our Tree and Menorah
lightings on December 4th, thanked the Police Department and Croton Caring
for sponsoring the annual Toy Drive on December 6th, on December 7th the
Sustainability Committee met and talked about mini chargers at the train
station, DPW solar canopy, and the food scrap recycling program, met with
Mothers Out Front where they talked about a composting project, thanked
Croton’s American Legion Fox Eklof Post 505 for putting together a moving
Pearl Habor Ceremony on December 7th, attended the Westchester Municipal
Officials Association meeting where Captain Kyle Killner updated us on FEMA,
pleased to advised that Croton was included as one of the top ten model
Westchester Communities for housing, on December 12th and Dec 13th
participated with the Rotary on the Salvation Army Bell Ringing, tomorrow
evening Welcome Wagon will hold a cookie exchange and thanked DPW for
getting us through our first snow storm.
Mayor Pugh stated that it is the Board’s intent to prioritize the discussion
regarding appointments to various committees.
Resolution Approving Mayoral Appointments
On motion by Trustee Slippen and seconded by Trustee Simon, the Board
approved the following Mayoral appointments with a 4-0 vote.
Steven Krisky
Carly Shanks
Jennifer Dela RosaAsghar
Tatyana Polyak
Sherry Horowitz
Eva Thaddeus
Rachel Bernstein
Madalyn Bozinski
Peter Sedlmair
Emily Boglioli
Debi Braddick
Sherry Horowitz
Kyla Black
Amy Melman
William Begeny
Carolyn Whiting
Ian Murtaugh

Planning Board
Water Control Comm.
Visual Environment Board

Held Over
Term Ending December 2030
Term Ending December 2028

Visual Environment Board
Conservation Adv. Council
Conservation Adv. Council
Conservation Adv. Council
Conservation Adv. Council
Recreation Adv. Committee
Recreation Adv. Committee
Recreation Adv. Committee
IDEA Committee
IDEA Committee
IDEA Committee
IDEA Committee
Police Adv. Committee
Police Adv. Committee

Term Ending December 2028
Held Over
Held Over
Term Ending December 2027
Term Ending December 2027
Held Over
Held Over
Term Ending December 2028
Held Over
Term Ending December 2027
Term Ending December 2028
Term Ending December 2028
Held Over
Term Ending December 2028

Village Board of Trustees
December 17, 2025
Page 24

Steven Krisky
Stuart Greenbaum
Len Simon
Leo Wiegman
Stacey Nachtaler
Sherry Horowitz
Valerie Leis
Orit Daly
Anthony Lopez
Carolyn Whiting
James Turman

Waterfront Adv. Committee
Waterfront Adv. Committee
Waterfront Adv. Committee
Waterfront Adv. Committee
Waterfront Adv. Committee
Arts & Humanities Adv. Council
Arts & Humanities Adv. Council
Arts & Humanities Adv. Council
Arts & Humanities Adv. Council
HEART
Chair, Zoning Board of Appeals

Ethan Lewis

Zoning Board of Appeals

Held Over
Term Ending December 2026
Term Ending December 2026
Term Ending December 2026
Term Ending December 2026
Held Over
Term Ending December 2027
Term Ending December 2027
Term Ending December 2027
Held Over
Pending Completion of
Required Training
Term ending December 2027
Pending Completion of
Required Training

Mayor Pugh congratulated Christine Wagner on completing her outstanding
service on the Village's Zoning Board of Appeals for the past 11 years and
noted that Ms. Wagner was awarded the “Distinguished Service Award for
Community Planning” by the Westchester Municipal Planning Federation earlier
this year.
Mayor Pugh, the Board of Trustees, Village Attorney Subin and Village Manager
Healy wished everyone a Happy Chanukah, Merry Christmas and a Happy New
Year.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Slippen and approved with a 4-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:17pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

