Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting
Monday, September 8, 2025
Present: Emily Boglioli, Debi Braddick, Pete Sedlemair, John Sasso, Frances
Catanio, Kyle Raum, Nora Nicolson, Bryan Healy, John Bouchard, and Mark
Duncan.
Meeting Called to Order: The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. by Debi.
Approval of Minutes: The June minutes were approved.
Letter from Chair: Debi reviewed her letter that she sent out in June and asked if
anybody had any questions.
Bus for Croton Students: Nora is working on getting a bus to transport middle
school kids to the Town of Cortlandt Community Center after school to attend a
few of their special events throughout the year. She is working with the school
(PVC) to help facilitate possible trips.
IDEA Committee Letter Regarding Silver Lake: The RAC went over a letter
that was sent by the IDEA Committee suggesting that a sign be posted at Silver
Lake to inform residents that they can drive down to the bottom of the hill to gain
access to the park. A discussion ensued, and the RAC thought that it would be too
much of a safety issue to permit cars down the steep driveway.
Dobbs Park Bid Opening: The Village is currently out to bid on two separate
projects for Dobbs Park. The bids are due on September 11th. One of the bids
involves the replacement of the playground equipment and basketball court at the
park, while the other bid involves the replacement of the infield sod. Also being
done in conjunction with these projects is the replacement of the fencing and
backstop at the field. It is expected that work will begin later this fall and be
completed in time for the spring season.
Gouveia Park Update: Update that was provided was that there is a proposal with
an architect for an assessment of the building and that the Village has two grant
applications that were submitted as well.
Bocce Court Update: John Sasso informed the RAC that two new benches were
placed by the bocce courts during the summer and that to date 48 participants had
signed up for our Intro to Bocce classes.

Update on Duck Pond Garbage Bin, Picnic Table & Benches: John Bouchard
informed the RAC that a picnic table, two new benches, and a new garbage bin
were placed in Duck Pond Park during the summer. A dedication on 9/12/25 at
9:00 a.m. will take place for the two benches that were donated by the American
Legion.
Park Activities Over the Summer: John Bouchard gave an update on the parks
over the summer. He mentioned that a lot of vegetation had been cleared along the
walkway between Half Moon Bay and Senasqua Park.
Summary of the Summer: Mark stated that the summer had a very positive
outcome for the department. Silver Lake had over 4,500 patron visits. Seven
concerts and six family entertainment nights had great attendance. The Day Camp
went well at Holy Name of Mary. Basketball camp was held outside at Duck Pond,
and the Tiny Tots camp went well at St. Augustine’s. All of the camps are
expected to return to the schools next summer. Overall, the summer for recreation
was another successful one!
Recreation Master Plan: Nora mentioned that the Recreation Master Plan from
2002 should be reviewed, and that the Village will be undertaking a comprehensive
plan in the year 2030.
Adjournment: The meeting was adjourned at 8:20 p.m.
The next regular meeting is scheduled for Monday, October 6, 2025, at 7:00
p.m.

