May 2025
Croton-on-Hudson Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee
May 2025 Meeting Minutes
Date: May 15, 2025– 7:30-9:00pm
Present: Matt Arnold (chair), Christine O’Connor (visitor, neighbor), Kevin Scott, Barry Scheer, Brian
Pugh (Mayor), Neal Haber (BOE), Matthew Schuerman, Len Simon (ex officio)
●
●

●

●

April Minutes approved (link)
Sidewalks and Enforcement
● Christine O’Connor joined to share concerns about sidewalks and crosswalks
● Sent a message to Len re: crosswalks
● Action: get list from Len and compare to our current watchlist
● State currently replacing sidewalk ramps at intersections along Riverside
Project MOVER
● Discussion w/ Library on placement of rack/hub was positive
● Questions on liability and program operations
● Reviewing Site Plan
● Survey - Nora looking for full open text output re: bike share adoption to help in crafting
communications
● Alex Maccalini (Shared Mobility) joined by phone to answer questions:
● Responses to Amos’s queries (see table below*)
● How many distinct users?
● A: ~600 (active members); 1 user took over 60 trips
● Because a NYSERDA project, data sharing requirement to share usage data
(monthly). Additionally, data will be available to Village upon request for analysis
● In Ossining the average trip was 20 mins.
● Pilot rate - avg ~$4/ride
● $20/mo monthly plan will be available
● $4/month “equity” plan for low income residents
● Tarrytown and Sleepy Hollow launch and ribbon cutting next Friday (5/23)
● Croton target launch - mid June or July
● Action: Len to send pricing plan info to committee
● Roll-out / Marketing
● Plan in progress (Len + Nora)
● Opportunity to promote general bike safety
● E-Bikes - Project MOVER launch as an opportunity to educate public
about safe usage / regulations, etc.
Bike Safety material
● Incorporate with MOVER (some examples included in the Sharepoint site shared by
Nelson\Nygaard)
● Key component of Slow Down Croton – content on both safe driving habits, sharing the
road and bike safety
● Materials for the school:
● Age appropriate
● Opportunities to build into the curriculum (CHAP, Health, PhysEd?)

● Matthew forwarded email re: past attempt to Neal
Opportunity for next Earth Day (or other events) to promote basic bike safety
Action: begin assembling standard info sheet (Matt and Matthew) [Standard Asset]
● Examples:
● https://www.nhtsa.gov/sites/nhtsa.gov/files/811557.pdf
● Resource - League of American Bicyclists
● https://bikeleague.org
“Bike Friendly City” – League of American Bicyclists
● How to become a “Bike Friendly City” (BFC) designation (460 current communities)
● Committee endorses idea of applying
● https://bikeleague.org/bfa/community/
Slow Down Croton
● Revised design (color scheme)
● Design/color
● Feedback – looking for more “different” than the last
● E.g., safety yellow/green
● Timing
● Prepare over summer
● Launch in mid-August, in advance of back2 school
● Schedule press conference (as did last campaign)
● Materials
● Yard sign
● Bumper sticker (or check on price of magnets, or static cling)
● Snail only
● Idea - apply to all Village and Police vehicles
● Distribution via CPD
● Web Page (via Village website/BPC pages)
● AOB (8:50-9:00pm)
● CHHS – Old Post South access during school drop-off times (issue raised by Will
Begeny)
● Elliott Way/Croton Landing – possible adjustments to make route more bike and
pedestrian accommodating (see resident comments)
●
●

●

●

*Answers to Amos’s questions posed over email:
Question

Answer

Can the Board request and share
with us an anonymized copy of
the Ossining trip data to verify
patterns for ourselves?

We have done so. Please see here for a report outlining
start/end hub data by hub for the Ossining pilot as well

Can the Board request and share
with us a copy of the Ossining
site/license agreement with Drop
Mobility so we can see the terms
(including important terms for
terminating the program,
insurance requirements for the
operator, liability waiver for the

The Croton Master Site License Agreement, covering five of
the six hubs is attached. Like Ossining, it was based on the
standard Drop Mobility agreement and was the joint work of
the Village Manager, the Village Attorney and the Village’s
insurance representatives. The Croton Free Library will have
a separate, similar site agreement.

village, sharing of anonymized trip
data with the village, etc)?

Can Drop Mobility assure the
Board that bikes will be
redistributed throughout the day
— especially during morning and
evening commute -- both within
Croton and between Croton and
Ossining (so bikes are indeed
accessible at all locations most of
the day and busy racks like the
Croton train station are emptied to
make room for new drop-offs)?

Effective distribution of the bikes among the various Hubs is
the professional responsibility of Drop Mobility and is part of
the Master Site/license Agreement (section 7, paragraph 2.)
Drop operates similar programs across 50+ North American
municipalities.

Can Drop Mobility assure the
Board that riders will not be
charged for leaving a bike
adjacent to -- but not on — a bike
rack, if it’s full?

Accommodating riders when a rack is full is normal in all Drop
markets. Drop makes the footprint for the geofenced hub
larger than the hub itself to account for GPS drift. The user
can end their ride anywhere in the geofenced area. Drop does
ask that the user still locks the bike properly by tethering the
bike to a sign post or even another bike. This will prevent the
user from getting a warning for improper parking. They should
also send a message to the Customer service team using the
app and mentioning there was no availability to park at the
rack. Users can see the geofenced area on the map in the
app.

Is the Board willing to ask for
better data privacy terms for
riders?

Drop Mobility verifies that they do not collect or sell user data
to third parties. They share data with NYSERDA/the project
partners for reporting purposes, including the following
variables. Bike ID number, Start Hub, End Hub, Date, Start
Time, Trip Duration, Billing Zip Code

Message to Village Manager, Mayor, Trustees re: endorsement of e-bike/e-scooter regulation:

