Croton Conservation Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
October 14, 2025
Meeting called to order at 8:00pm
Present: John Ealer (Chair), Rachel Bernstein, Halle Clarke, David Daly, Sherry Horowitz,
Jason Mencher, Eva Thaddeus, Madalyn Bozinski, Mayor Brian Pugh (Liaison), Planning
Board Member Steve Krisky (Liaison)
1. Minutes
a. September minutes approved
b. Discussion of working minutes vs. official minutes
c. Minutes are posted in the public documents section of the Village website
and have been used to help inform reports and committee decisions
2. NRI – Jason, Madalyn, Steve
a. Jason, Madalyn, and Steve attended the ﬁrst NRI meeting on September 22nd
in Cortlandt
b. The initial meeting was positive and primarily focused on logistics of
meetings and report delivery
c. The next NRI update meeting will be held on Wednesday, December 10th at
6:00pm at Croton Village Hall
d. NRI committee members will share materials with the full CAC once received
3. Repair Café – Sherry
a. Sherry met with the Hudson Valley Repair Café coordinator, Suzie Fromer,
and it was decided that Croton Library will be the best option to host
b. The CAC will act as a partner with the Library for the Repair Café, including:
i. Managing the list of ﬁxers
ii. Providing ﬁnancial support for food and supplies
1. John will follow up with Brian Healy to conﬁrm funding
iii. Organizing volunteers
iv. CAC members will volunteer
c. Next Repair Café tentatively planned for February (potentially the 7th or 28th)
4. No members of the public were in attendance at the meeting and therefore there
was no public comment on Items 2 and 3.
5. Garden Club – Eva and Halle
a. Garden Club held an end-of-season potluck at Senasqua with ~12 people in
attendance
b. Members visited Lasdon Arboretum and took a free tour

c. Eva is working with the Recreation Department on an event in November
regarding lawn conversion and pollinator gardens
i. Sign-up available through the recreation department
d. Plants taken out at Gottwald were replaced
e. Horticultural signs were approved and are on their way
f. A smaller sign may be needed for Gottwald Circle
6. Trails – David
a. Trails committee had a busy summer, but slowing down in the fall
b. Trails workdays will pause for winter
c. David met with John Bouchard about an additional trail section near Duck
Pond
d. 2 new trail signs on North Highland
e. ¾ of the crossings on the Upper Highland Loop are marked
f. May want to include our trails map in the NRI. NRI members will connect with
David when ready for this step.
g. The updated trails map has highlighted hikes. Possibility of adding a narrative
description of hikes to the trails map was proposed.
7. CLEAN – John
a. Held a waterfront cleanup with Temple Israel on September 28th
i. ~100 lbs of trash was picked up between Senasqua and the Landing
b. September 28th was likely the last cleanup for the year until spring
8. Open Mic
a. Halle discussed putting together write-ups for the Conservation Corner
portion of the Village newsletter
i. Halle volunteered to create a calendar/list of potential topics which
can be rotated for appropriate times of year
1. John might have a list of topics used in the past
ii. Coordinate with newsletter organizer, Amy MacNamara
iii. Submissions should be reviewed by the Chair
b. Enforcement discussion
i. Mayor Pugh provided leaf blower enforcement numbers:
1. 17 violations were issued in 2025 for off-season leaf blower
use
c. For next meeting, think about the vision for Earth Day 2026. What is CAC’s
goal? What results are we looking for from the event?
Meeting adjourned at 8:46pm
Respectfully submitted by Madalyn Bozinski, October’s recording secretary

