Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting
Monday, January 12, 2026
Present
Debi Braddick, Emily Boglioli, John Sasso, Karen Pecora, Francis Catanio,
Pete Sedlmair, Nora Nicholson, John Bouchard and Mark Duncan.
Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m. by Debi Braddick.
Approval of Minutes
The December minutes were reviewed and approved.
Bocce Court & Dog Park Update: Local Business Capriccio’s Pizzeria &
Restaurant (Mike Macchia) expressed interest in donating a bench for Black
Rock Dog Park. The Recreation Advisory Committee agreed that placing the
bench inside the dog park would be beneficial to park users. John Bouchard
will inform Mike Macchia of the bench cost and outline the next steps. Debi
will email Bryan Healy to inform him of the approval for the bench from the
Recreation Advisory Committee.
Meeting with Village Board & RAC: Karen and John Sasso reported on
their attendance at the Village work session, where discussions included
extending dog park hours and installing an AED at Black Rock Park.
• Dog Park Hours: The Village will look into whether to extend
weekend hours from 4:00pm to 6:00pm
• AED Installation: The Village believes sufficient funds exist in the
current budget to purchase an AED.
• Dog Park Access: The possibility of allowing a limited number of
school district residents to use the dog park was also discussed.

Parks Update: John Bouchard provided the following updates:
• Dobbs Park Playground: Playground equipment arrived on January
12, 2026. Installation is scheduled to begin during the last week of
January.
• Duck Pond: Two evenings of skating occurred last week, with hopes
for additional skating opportunities this winter.
• Memorial Bench: John Bouchard spoke to Sue Mandel regarding the
placement of a memorial bench at the Duck Pond, Senasqua Park or
outside of Senasqua Park along the walkway.
Gouveia Park Update: Nora Nicholson reported that the architect has
produced revised sketches for the Gouveia house. She also noted that the
sewer line installation is complete. The Department of Public Works plans to
proceed with work on the driveway/loop, lighting and fencing within the
park.
Master Fee Schedule Review: The Recreation Advisory Board reviewed
the Recreation Department’s master fee schedule and reached the following
conclusions:
• Day Camp and Tiny Tots Camp fees for the most part will remain
unchanged except for the non-resident full season camp fee which will
increase slightly.
• Senior Kayak/Canoe winter storage fees will increase by $20.
• All other fees were deemed appropriate and will remain unchanged.
Miscellaneous: Nora Nicholson expressed interest in creating an
informational packed for the Spanish-speaking community that would
include the Recreation Brochure. Mark Duncan noted that the brochure is
already available in Spanish on the Village website where copies can be
made for the packet.
Adjournment: The meeting was adjourned at 8:20 p.m.
The next regular meeting is scheduled for Monday, February 2nd, 2026
@ 7:00 p.m.

