A Work Session of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY was held on
Wednesday, November 12, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Simon

Trustee Slippen
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua Subin

Trustee Politi was absent.
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the Board of Trustees of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York resolved by a 4-0 vote to have the Village Manager
send the below letter to Metro-North Railroad (Trustees Politi was absent):
Mr. Andrew Buder
Metro-North Railroad
420 Lexington Avenue, 12th Floor
New York, New York 10170
Dear Mr. Buder:
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson would like to highlight several serious safety concerns related to
the Harmon Yards that have been reported by our volunteer first responders from the Croton-onHudson Fire Department (CFD) and Croton EMS. Between January and October 2025, the CFD
responded to 50 calls inside the Harmon Yards -- an average of about five per month. Notably, 28%
of these calls occurred between midnight and 8:00 a.m. The vast majority of these incidents involve
alarm activations due to smoke from the trains causing the alarms to go off accidentally. Our
volunteer firefighters have reported that, upon arrival, there are frequently no MTA personnel onsite to guide them to the building or area where the alarm was triggered. In many cases, private
security at the gate is unaware that an alarm is even sounding. This forces our volunteers to search
the property to locate the potential emergency -- losing valuable time that could make the difference
in a true emergency. While most of these calls ultimately turn out to be false alarms, they still require
a full emergency response and place an unnecessary strain on our volunteer fire department and their
limited resources. During the same period, Croton EMS has responded to 39 calls to the Harmon
Yards -- an average of roughly four per month—and faces the same issue of not being provided with
an exact location. This uncertainty during emergency medical calls could pose life-threatening risks
to MTA employees and adds additional burden on our volunteer EMS providers. The Village hopes
to collaborate with the MTA to improve safety and communication at the Harmon Yards. We
respectfully offer the following recommendations:
1. Designated MTA personnel should meet first responders at the gate to direct them immediately to
the emergency location.
2. Private security staff should be given real-time access to alarm and incident locations so they can
assist emergency crews upon arrival.
3. The MTA fire brigade should respond to the alarms first and determine if the alarm is legitimate
or if it is false alarm.

Our volunteer first responders serve the community with dedication and professionalism. However,
these recurring false alarms and access challenges are placing an increasing strain on their time,
energy, and morale. We urge the MTA to partner with the Village to ensure safer, faster, and more
efficient emergency responses at the Harmon Yards.
During the work session, the Board also received an update from the Arts & Humanities Advisory
Council on the artist banner program, discussed the Con Edison rate case settlement and the
conclusion of the Community Choice Aggregation Program, reviewed existing intermunicipal
agreements for shared services and discussed establishing an agreement with the Croton-Harmon
Union-Free School District, received an update on the shoreline resiliency study from the Village
Manager, continued reviewing guidelines and procedures for the advisory boards and committees
in the Village and reviewed drafts of the social media policy and Board of Trustees rules of
procedure.
Respectfully submitted,
Bryan Healy, Village Manager
______________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

