Police Advisory Committee Minutes
September 18, 2025, 6:30
1st ﬂoor courtroom Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
Attendance: Chief Nikitopoulos, Trustee Nicholson, Teri Lukin, Ian Murtaugh,
Miles Kafka, Carolyn Whiting.
Absent: Jim Miller, Marie Considine, Paige Jones, Jeremy Davis, Edwin Jandres.
1. May 2025 minutes approved. Motion Ian Murtaugh, 2nd Teri Lukin,
unanimous approval.
2. National Night Out.
• Carolyn Whiting thanked Chief Nikitopoulos and Oﬃcer Davis for a
highly successful National Night Out. They both did an outstanding
job.
3. Back to school night.
• The police department will attend back to school night at the high
school on October 8. Chief Nikitopoulos will conﬁrm the time. 2-3
SRO oﬃcers will attend.
• PAC member Ian Murtaugh will attend. Parents are familiar with Ian
due to his bus driving work.
4. Ideas for Hispanic community and youth outreach.
• It was suggested that the Police do a book reading at the library. Chief
Nikitopoulos will speak with Oﬃcer Jandres and investigate this possibility.
a) Possible reading on a Saturday morning.
5. Oﬃcer surveys.
• Carolyn will email Oﬃcer Davis/ pba president and ask if oﬃcers
would be willing to take a survey.
6. Bike to school event?
• Chief Nikitopoulos will ask the to be hired PVC principal about a bike
to school event in May 2026.
7. HEART event

• Carolyn Whiting advised that the PD will participate in the HEART
event on October 18 from 1-4 at the Harmon ﬁrehouse.
8. Fall Fest:
• Nora Nicholson advised that the Village will not host a fall fest this
year.
9. Free Gun locks.
• Chief Nikitopoulos reported that DCJS has oﬀered the Village free gun
locks. Chief Nikitopoulos has applied for 200 free gun locks, although
the number given to Croton will depend on how many departments
apply for gun locks. The Chief can apply for additional locks, if
needed, in the spring.
10. Newsletter
• The PAC unanimously agreed that the PAC members do not have time
to create a newsletter.
11.Meeting with other PACs
• Zoom meeting with Rochester Police Accountability Board. Statewide PACs.
September 30, 2025, 10 am – 3 pm.
• The PAC would like to hold a meeting with Westchester PACS sometime in
Jan, Feb, or March. Possible Saturday morning in the
Croton Community Room
12.Oﬃcer medals
• Chief Nikitopoulos will provide a press release for all medals received by
oﬃcers throughout the year.
13.Next PAC meeting
• Our next PAC meeting will be November 13, 2025. There will be no October
meeting due to the heavy PD event schedule.
14. PAC meeting schedules/ number of meetings per year.
• Chief Nikitopoulos has asked that we cut back on the number of PAC
meetings per year to quarterly meetings due to the overtime needed for
oﬃcers to attend and the stress on Oﬃcers attending when oﬀ duty.
15.Emergency Heart assist

• Chief Nikitopoulos will look into automatic chest compression devices worn
by a patient during a cardiac arrest.
16.The Blaze:
• Carolyn Whiting reported that she sent a thank you letter to Historic
Hudson Valley President Waddel Stillman and Vice President Peter Prockriss
to thank them for the free Blaze tickets given to all Village volunteers.
17.Thoughts or discussion from Chief Nikitopoulos
• Chief Nikitopoulos advised the committee that he was selected as a
Croton Harmon High School Distinguished Graduate. Award is
November 24, time to be determined. Chief Nikitopoulos will keep
the PAC informed as PAC members wish to attend the ceremony.
• Accreditation:
a) Chief Nikitopoulos and Lt. Tramaglini have been working with
Lexipol on department policies to comply with future
accreditation.
• Chief Nikitopoulos will ask the Board for 3 new oﬃcer positions in the
2026 – 2027 budget year.
a) The PAC will review this request and a request for a consultant at
the PAC’s November meeting.
b) Chief Nikitopoulos will ask other local Chiefs about their
jurisdiction square miles, number of oﬃcers on staﬀ, budget, and
other pertinent data to compare to Croton’s data with an eye
towards using this information to bolster the need for more
oﬃcers.
• October Police Department community events:
Drug take back day, Pumpkin painting, Oktoberfest, H.E.A.R.T. doctor
events, and the Rotary car show.
• Chief Nikitopoulos is working to have additional oﬃcers certiﬁed in
child car seat installation. There are currently two oﬃcers certiﬁed,
with the goal of four oﬃcers certiﬁed to have one on each tour.
a) Chief Nikitopoulos would like to have regularly scheduled child car
seat installation events once per month.

18. Adjourn at 7:40

