Planning Board Meeting Minutes
February 24, 2026
8:00 p.m.

PRESENT: Rob Luntz (Absent)
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Vincent Salanitro, P.E., Village Engineer
Joshua Subin, Village Attorney
Stacey Nachtaler, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison

ABSENT: Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER

Acting Chairman Geoffrey Haynes called the Planning Board meeting of February 24, 2026, to order at 8:00 p.m.

2. NEW BUSINESS

a) Temple Israel of Northern Westchester — 31 Glengary Road (68.09—4-42) — Amended Site Plan Application to Add a Portico Entry to the Main Entrance

Acting Chairperson Geoff Haynes stated that he was going to open the Public Hearing on this agenda item, then postpone further discussion, at the request of the applicant, to the next scheduled Planning Board meeting.

Steve Krisky recused himself from participation for this agenda item as he is a member of Temple Israel of Norther Westchester and has been involved in the design and application process for this amended site plan application.

John Ghegan made a motion to open the public hearing, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 3 – 0, with Rob Luntz being absent and Steve Krisky recusing himself.

Acting Chairperson Geoff Haynes declared that this matter is adjourned to our next public meeting, assuming the applicants are ready.

b) Referral from the Village Board of Trustees to review draft Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2026, the EAF and CAF that addresses a number of inconsistencies within the Zoning Code, update certain definitions and amend the number of fowl permitted on residential properties.

Acting Chairperson Geoff Haynes noted Local Law Introductory No. 3 of 2026 is a 27-page document, written to correct inconsistencies, and address the number of fowl permitted on residential properties. There are several instances of cleanups around transitioning the special permits from the Village Board to the Planning Board, and some changes around solar energy systems.

The Planning Board requested clarification as to whether Metro North would be required to apply for special permits. The Planning Board also requested to know the approximate number of existing special permits that will require renewals and an approximate average of how many special permit applications to expect to review each year.

On page 14, Section B, number 4 (d) the Planning Board would like to update the language to give the Planning Board the authority to increase or decrease parking requirements in all zoning districts, and would like, overall to have more flexibility in parking requirements in all zoning districts.

The Planning Board noted that there needed to be a correction on page 22, Section 36 in the final version to say special permit applications will be distributed to the Village Board by the Engineering Office, not referred to the Village Board.

Village Attorney Josh Subin thought that the parking requirement would be a separate issue and thought that it may be the case that you could waive 20% of the parking requirement, and anything else would require a variance.

c) Referral from the Village Board of Trustees to review draft Local Law Introductory No. 5 of 2026, the EAF and CAF to amend Chapter 230, Zoning, of the Code of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson to amend provisions relating to Affordable Housing to allow for certain occupational preferences.

With input from Village Attorney Joshua Subin, the Planning Board discussed the history surrounding the discussion of occupational preferences related to affordable housing.

The Planning Board had questions regarding the implementation of this local law including, whether or not there would be an expectation for a person to continue in the preferred occupation while living in the affordable housing, if the law would allow for both part-time and full-time workers, and whether a home health aide would need to work for an agency, or if they could be independently employed. The Planning Board would be in favor of flexibility to include part-time employees.

The Planning Board would like for the category of United States Veteran's to be expanded to include Reservists.

3. Engineer's Report

Vinny Salanitro said that he was copied on an email from the DOT regarding the design center on Albany Post Road. A further update is expected in a month or so.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES — Draft Minutes January 27, 2026

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of January 27, 2026, as amended, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and the motion carried by a vote of 4 – 0, with Rob Luntz being absent.

5. ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:15 p.m. with a motion by John Ghegan seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 4 – 0, with Rob Luntz being absent.

Respectfully submitted,
Karen Stapleton, Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved on March 24, 2026, as amended, with a motion by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried, 4 – 0, with Rob Luntz abstaining as he was absent on February 24, 2026***
