Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting
Monday, November 10, 2025

Present: Debi Braddick, Emily Boglioli, Kyle Raum, Karen Pecora, Pete
Sedlmair, Nora Nicholson, John Bouchard, and Mark Duncan.

Meeting Called to Order:
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m. by Debi.

Approval of Minutes:
The October minutes were approved.

Letter from Mayor Referred to Debi:
Debi brought up an email about a "Pop-Up Pizza Farm" that a resident expressed
interest in bringing to the Village. The Recreation Advisory Committee thought
that the individual should reach out to the Croton Business Council to discuss the
idea further.

Monument for John "Rifle Jack" Peterson:
The Recreation Advisory Committee was asked by the Village Board for input on a
possible monument for John "Rifle Jack" Peterson, a local Revolutionary War
soldier, to be installed at the Village-owned parcel at 119 Radnor Avenue. The
committee discussed the proposal and agreed that additional research would be
needed before a decision could be made. They also suggested that the Village
reach out to the Cemetery to see if a monument could be placed on their property.
John B. said he would reach out to the American Legion as well.

Parks Update:
John Bouchard provided updates on several parks and recent projects:

  * The Dobbs Park Improvements Project has officially begun, with the
    replacement of the baseball field infield fence completed last week. Over the
    next few weeks, the infield grass will be replaced, and the outfield fencing
    will be repaired or replaced as needed. The playground and basketball court
    replacements are tentatively slated to begin in February 2026, with
    completion scheduled for April 2026.
  * New Belgium Blocks have been placed at the Duck Pond.
  * The Peace Pole will be installed at Croton Landing by the end of this week.
  * Turf blankets will be placed on all fields after November 23rd for the winter.
  * All water has been shut off at the parks (Croton Landing, Silver Lake, and
    Senasqua).

Miscellaneous:

  * The Goblin Walk took place on Saturday, October 25th, at 11:30 a.m.
    Approximately 250+ people attended. An entertainer performed, and treat
    bags were given out to participants as they left.
  * The 4th Annual Halloween Dog Parade also took place on Saturday, October
    25th, at 2:00 p.m. Approximately 60 dogs participated, and dog treats were
    handed out as well.
  * The Tree Lighting will take place on Thursday, December 4th, with a rain
    date of Friday, December 5th. Festivities will begin at 5:00 p.m., with the
    tree being lit around 6:00 p.m.
  * The Winter Brochure will be available on December 2nd.

Adjournment:
The meeting was adjourned at 8:05 p.m.

The next regular meeting is scheduled for Monday, December 8, 2025, at 7:00
p.m.
