Planning Board Meeting Minutes
November 4, 2025
8:00 p.m.

APPROVED

PRESENT: Rob Luntz
         John Ghegan
         Geoffrey Haynes
         Steve Krisky
         Eva Thaddeus

ALSO PRESENT: Vincent Salanitro, P.E., Village Engineer
              Len Simon, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison (left early)
              Dan Pozin, Village Attorney

ABSENT: Nora M. Nicholson, Village Board Trustee & Planning Board Liaison

1. CALL TO ORDER:

Chairman Rob Luntz called the Planning Board meeting of October 7, 2025 to order at 8:00 p.m.

2. OLD BUSINESS

a) Fuller, Sean - The Grand - 130 Grand Street (79.05-1-57) - Final Signage Approval

Property owner Sean Fuller was present in support of the application. It was noted that the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment reviewed the sign permit application and had no issues. Steve Krisky asked the applicant about the flower beds in front of the building which contain advertising, not plantings and the applicant said that he pulled out old plants, will add mulch and see if some vines can grow in the beds. The applicant mentioned possibly wanting to add a small marquee, but was told that a marquee has not been approved, and that if he would like to add one, that may require another application.

Geoff Haynes made a motion to issue the final signage approval for The Grand at 130 Grand Street, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried, 5 - 0.

b) Eichelberger, Cody - Mondays Gift Shop - 125 Grand Street (67.20-3-21) - Final Signage Approval

Cody Eichelberger was present in support of the application. It was noted that the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment reviewed the sign permit application and had no issues. It was clarified that the lettering on the windows will be white vinyl. The windows will not be white, which was not clear in the image presented.

Eva Thaddeus made a motion to issue the final signage approval for Monday's Gift Shop at 125 Grand Street, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried, 5 - 0.

c) Referral from the Village Board of Trustees to review draft Local Law Introductory No 14 of 2025 to permit the Village Board of Trustees to appoint an alternate member to the Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals for the term of one official year.

The Planning Board has several concerns about the appointment of an alternate board member. Historically, the Planning Board has always had a quorum, and can function well with either three or four members. Village Attorney Dan Pozin stated again that it is typical, in other communities, to have a Planning Board alternate. The Planning Board does not see the need for an alternate member.

3. NEW BUSINESS

a) 73 Melrose, LLC - Minor Site Plan Approval for a New Single-Family Home - 73 Melrose Avenue (79.5-4-31.2)

Butch Doran, property owner, was present in support of this application seeking minor site plan, excavation and fill, and stormwater prevention plan approval for the property at 73 Melrose Avenue. The Planning Board recently approved a minor site plan for this property, submitted by a previous owner. The current applicant purchased the lot, and wants to put up a new house with a similar footprint, with the major difference being the location of and access to the garage. Chairman Luntz believes that this application is an improvement on the original site plan.

The applicant is proposing a small driveway and attached garage at the front of the house. As shown on the plans, with two cars in the driveway, the cars encroach on the right of way. The applicant says that this encroachment has been allowed in the past, as it is hard to avoid with the 15-foot setback. The applicant said that in the process of cleaning up the area around this lot, which is at the end of a dead-end street. It is a wide road, and a fire truck would be able to get by. The applicant does not believe that this street is used as a cut through for the school. It was requested that the applicant's engineer provide calculations to confirm that there will be no net increase in runoff for the 100-year storm.

The Planning Board felt that the color choices, as shown by the applicant fit in well with the neighborhood. John Ghegan asked how tall the house was and there was some minor discussion estimating that the house is 27-feet tall. Chairman Luntz asked that the plans be updated to get an actual height dimension on the plans.

The applicant brought up the parkland fee of $12,000.00 that is referenced on the draft minor site plan resolution for this application. The applicant believes that the construction of this house, in this spot goes along with what the Harmon Subdivision was designed for. The applicant mentioned larger, multi-unit buildings with many more bedrooms having no recreation fee, and this four-bedroom house having a $12,000.00 fee, and believes that this is excessive. The applicant also noted that building permit fees went up, with the permit fees for this building alone totaling $28,000.00, before the recreation fee. The applicant said that the building permit fee should be based on square footage, not cost of construction. The Planning Board felt that the Village Board of Trustees would be the ones to speak with regarding fees.

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan application for 73 Melrose, LLC, with the added conditions that the applicant will provide calculations to confirm that there will be no net increase in runoff for the 100-year storm, the off-street parking requirement will be waived, and the architectural plans be updated to show the height of the proposed residence, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 - 0.

b) Robinson, Matthew & Ilana - Building Envelope Modification - 8 Newton Court (67.10-2-4.21)

Property owner Matthew Robinson and architect Justin Kacur of Highlands Architecture were present in support of the application. The applicant provided a brief history of the project which is to rebuild a single-family residence on an existing foundation to replace the home that was significantly damaged by fire earlier this year. This application is for a proposed front porch and rear deck and previously constructed gazebo, all of which fall outside of the allowed building envelope. Other than exceptions of the porch and deck as mentioned, the architecture has changed, but the footprint is the same. The garage is increased slightly, but it is within the building envelope. The applicants were advised that they will need to apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a variance for the gazebo.

The applicants brought samples of the building materials which were passed around by the Planning Board members. When asked if the applicant was planning to put solar panels on the house, the answer was no. Chairman Luntz advised the applicants that the Village follows the NY State Stretch Energy Code, so they will need to be "solar ready" to comply with the code.

John Ghegan made a motion to approve the application for Matthew & Ilana Robinson of 8 Newton Court to modifications to their building envelope as shown on the building plans, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried, 5 - 0.

4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES - Draft Minutes October 7, 2025

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Planning Board minutes of October 7, 2025 as amended, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

5. ADJOURNMENT

There being no further business to come before the board, the meeting was duly adjourned at 9:16 p.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Karen Stapleton
Secretary to the Planning Board

***Minutes approved on December 9, 2025 with a motion by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and carried, 5 - 0***

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Planning Board approved an Amended Site Plan application on March 5th, 2024, for Sean Fuller "the Applicant" for the construction of a rear deck and small addition, revisions to the front facade and improvements and updates to the parking lot/dumpster area; and

WHEREAS, the subject property is located at 130 Grand Street in a C-1 Central Commercial District and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.05 Block 1 Lot 57; and

WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA); therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and

WHEREAS, as part of the condition of approval in its March 5, 2024 Amended Site Plan resolution, a sign application was to be submitted to the "Advisory Board on the Visual Environment for their review and recommendation to the Planning Board, and that the applicant return to the Planning Board for final approval of the business sign."

WHEREAS, on Monday, October 20, 2025, the applicant's sign permit application was reviewed by the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment (VEB), as required by the amended site plan approval issued on March 5th, 2024. The VEB had no objections to the sign; and

WHEREAS, the proposed sign meets the criteria in accordance with Section 230-44, Signs of the Zoning chapter of the Village Code; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the sign permit application as shown on the approved minutes from the October 20, 2025 VEB meeting, dated October 21, 2025 be approved.

1. All conditions listed on the amended site plan resolution dated March 5th, 2024 remain in effect.

The Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, New York
Robert Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Geoff Haynes, seconded by Steve Krisky, and carried by a vote of 5 -0.

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, November 4th, 2025.

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Planning Board approved a Change of Use application from Office Space to Retail Space on September 2, 2025, for Monday's (Cody Eichelberger), "the Applicant," said property owned by Hugo Iodice of HMM, LLC and located at 125 Grand Street. The property is located in the C-1 Central Commercial Zoning District and is designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 67.20 Block 3 Lot 21; and

WHEREAS, as part of the condition of approval in its September 2, 2025 Change of Use resolution, "an application for the business sign shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for review for compliance with the Zoning Code. If in compliance, the Village Engineer shall transmit the application to the Visual Environment Advisory Board for their review and comment. The applicant shall then return to the Planning Board for the approval of the business sign."

WHEREAS, on October 20, 2025, the applicant's sign permit application was reviewed by the Advisory Board on the Visual Environment (VEB), as required by the change of use approval issued on September 2, 2025. The VEB had no objections to the sign; and

WHEREAS, under the requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA), the Planning Board has determined that this project is a Type II Action in accordance with §617.5(25), which is not subject to review under SEQRA.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the sign permit application as shown on the approved minutes from the October 20, 2025 VEB meeting, dated October 21, 2025 be approved.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York

Rob Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoffrey Haynes
Steven Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by Eva Thaddeus, seconded by Steve Krisky and carried by a vote of  5 - 0.

Resolution accepted at the meeting held on Tuesday, November 4, 2025.

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, Taurus Builders Corp., ("Applicant") is seeking approvals for Minor Site Plan, Excavation and Fill Permit, and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan for the construction of a new single-family dwelling located at 73 Melrose Avenue, and designated on the Tax Map of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson as Section 79.05 Block 4 Lot 31.2 and;

WHEREAS, the lot is part of the Harmon Subdivision (Filed Map #1776); and

WHEREAS, the Planning Board reviewed in accordance with Section 270-70, a Minor Site Plan application on Tuesday, November 4th, 2025, and

WHEREAS, under Section 208-16(E) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving authority for the proposed tree removal associated with this project, and a separate tree removal permit is not required, and

WHEREAS, under Section 196-3(C) of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving authority for the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and reviewed the submitted SWPPP; and

WHEREAS, under Section 120-4 of the Village Code the Planning Board is the approving authority for the issuance of an Excavation and Filling Permit, and in accordance with Section 120-3(C) of the Village Code, the approval from the Planning Board shall incorporate the excavation and filling permit; and

WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA) in accordance with § 617.5(11), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required; and

WHEREAS, under Section 230-73A of the Village Zoning chapter of the Village Code, the Planning Board finds that the development of this site will contribute to population growth in the Village and that no suitable land is available on the site for a park. Therefore, the Planning Board hereby requires the payment of a fee in lieu of parkland in accordance with section 230-73B; the fee shall be paid prior to the issuance of a building permit; and

WHEREAS the Board has considered the public health, safety, and welfare, and the comfort and convenience of the public in general and of the prospective occupants of the proposed development and of the immediate neighborhood; and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Planning Board of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson hereby determines Minor Site Plan, Tree Removal Permit, and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan is granted subject to the following conditions below:
1. Approved Plans. Except as otherwise provided herein, all work shall be performed in strict compliance with the plans submitted to the Planning Board and approved by the Planning Board as follows:
   a. Architectural Drawings, Page 1 entitled "Drawing 1 of 5, Front Elevation, Rear Elevation," Page 2 entitled "Drawing 2 of 5, Foundation Plan, First Floor Plan" Page 3 entitled "Drawing 3 of 5 Second Floor Plan, Roof Framing Plan," Page 4 entitled " Drawing 4 of 5, Right Side Elevation," and Page 5 entitled "Drawing 5 of 5, Allowable Holes and General Conditions," dated September 22, 2025, prepared by DeMasi Architects, P.C. of Mt. Kisco, New York
   b. Site Plan Drawings, Sheet 1 entitled Site Plan Proposed House 73 Melrose Ave. Sheet 2 entitled Details/Notes Proposed House 73 Melrose Ave. dated October 1, 2025 and prepared by Ralph G. Mastromonaco, P.E., P.C. Consulting Engineers, Croton on Hudson, NY
   c. Examples of Exterior Finishes, are hereby approved subject to the following conditions:
      i. That, the exterior colors, materials, and architectural design of the proposed house are substantially consistent as set forth in the architectural plans, rendering and narrative and samples of exterior finishes.
2. The following conditions must be met before the Planning Board Chair may sign the approved Site Plan ("Final Site Plan"):
   a. The applicant will provide calculations to confirm that there will be no net increase in runoff for the 100-year storm.
   b. The off-street parking requirement will be waived as the driveway, as proposed, may not be able to accommodate two cars without intruding in the right of way.
   c. The architectural plans will be updated to show the height of the proposed residence.
3. Landscaping and Tree Removal:
   a. All tree removal and replanting must be in accordance with Section 208-18 and the approved landscaping plan.
   b. That, the trees to remain shall be protected with tree trunk armor and/or root zone protection as shown on the site plans listed above or as required by the Village Engineer.
   c. That, all disturbed areas not hard surfaced or mulched shall be covered with 3" of topsoil, perennial rye grass and mulch, and be reseeded and re-mulched as necessary to achieve a minimum 85% grass coverage or covered with other ground cover as shown on the approved landscaping plan.
   d. That, if any of the trees noted on the plan to be saved are unintentionally severely damaged during construction, the applicant will replace each severely damaged tree with a tree of 2.5" minimum caliper with the species to be approved by the Village Engineer.
   e. That, tree removal operations shall not be permitted between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through Sunday.
   f. All landscaping shall be installed in a healthy and vigorous state and shall be inspected at beginning and end of the growing season within the first five years of installation. Individual species that do not survive beyond the first, five years shall be replaced in the fall following the inspection with another native species suitable for the site conditions. If fall planting is not possible, then spring planting is permissible.
   g. That, in accordance with section 208-19(A) of the Village Code the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security payable to the Village to cover the completion of conditions (a) through (c) above, said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount and form of the bond to be approved by the Village.
4. Excavation and Fill:
   a. All proposed work will be in compliance with Section 120-8 of the Village Code.
   b. That, excavation and/or filling work shall not commence until a building permit has been issued and erosion and sediment control devices have been installed, inspected, and accepted by the Village Engineer in order to prevent potential impacts to stormwater drainage, water bodies and/or wetlands.
   c. That, the Village Engineer shall be notified by the next business day if bedrock is encountered in the excavation. If hammering is required, a rock excavation plan shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for review and approval and shall not include any blasting operations. The rock excavation plan shall provide for the shortest possible timeframe for the removal of bedrock with the goal that all bedrock removal operations be conducted in a two-to-three-week period as approved by the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer may extend this period on a day-by-day basis due to weather events that would not allow reasonable working conditions. The rock excavation plan shall also include an analysis of leaving part of the basement a crawl space to reduce the quantity of bedrock required to be excavated.
   d. That, excavation and/or filling operations shall not be permitted between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Sunday through Friday and between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Friday through Sunday.
   e. That, any revision to the work covered by the approval of the excavation and or fill work shall be reviewed by the Village Engineer, and if determined to be a substantial revision, a submission of a new application to the Planning Board shall be required.
5. Stormwater Management: The following conditions are established as part of the approval of the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan under Chapter 196 of the Village Code.
   a. A SWPPP must be provided and approved by the Village Engineer that meets the requirements of Section 196-6.
   b. In accordance with section 196-10(C) an as-built plan of the stormwater management practices shall be submitted to the Village Engineer.
   c. In accordance with section 196-10(F) the landowner shall grant to the Village the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the inspection of the stormwater management facilities.
   d. In accordance with section 196-11(A) of the Village Code the applicant shall file with the Village a suitable bond or other security to cover the full and faithful completion of all land development activities related to compliance with all conditions set forth by the Village in its approval of the stormwater pollution prevention plan. Said bond to be filed prior to the issuance of a building permit with amount of the bond to be approved by the Village Engineer.
6. Building Permit: No work may commence on any portion of the site without first contacting the Building Inspector to ensure that all permits and approvals have been obtained and meet the requirements of Article I of Chapter 86, Building Construction. The following conditions must be met before the issuance of a Building Permit:
   i. That, three sets of signed and sealed site plans, revised as required by this resolution, be submitted with the building permit application.
   ii. The Applicant receives all approvals required by other governmental approving agencies without material deviation from the Approved Plans. Evidence of compliance with conditions and any such approvals must be submitted to the Village Building Department.
7. The following conditions must be met before the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy:
   i. That, an as-built survey of the foundation shall be submitted prior to any framing and an updated as-built survey shall be included with the application for a certificate of occupancy.
   ii. That, the approval of the Village Engineer be obtained for all connections to Village owned utilities.
   iii. That, the landscaping shown on the Approved Plans be installed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
8. Field Changes: Any further modification of the subject premises beyond those approved herein shall be subject to further Board review and approval.
9. Expiration: Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan and associated permits shall become null and void. Any application for an extension of site plan approval shall be made six months prior to the expiration date.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York

Robert Luntz, Chairman
Eva Thaddeus
Steven Krisky
Geoffrey Haynes
John Ghegan

Steve Krisky made a motion to approve the Minor Site Plan Application for Taurus Builders Corp. at 73 Melrose Avenue, seconded by Geoff Haynes, and the motion carried by a vote of 5 to 0.

Resolution approved at the meeting held on Tuesday, November 4th, 2025.

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Planning Board approved the Baltic Estates (Westwind Subdivision) on July 25, 1995; and

WHEREAS, each lot in the Westwind Subdivision had a building envelope defined for it, beyond which no construction could occur without approval of the Planning Board; and

WHEREAS, Matthew & Ilana Robinson, owners of Lot #21 in the Westwind Subdivision (8 Newton Court - Sec. 67.10 Blk. 2 Lot 4.21) have requested an expansion of that lot's building envelope for the purpose of rebuilding a previously constructed gazebo, and to build a new front porch and rear deck during the process of rebuilding the home that was recently significantly damaged by fire; and

WHEREAS, this proposal is considered a Type II Action under the State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQRA) in accordance with § 617.5(11), therefore, no Negative Declaration is required, and

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the modification of the building envelope on Lot #21, as shown plans submitted to the Engineering Office by Highlands Architecture, PLLC, Cold Spring, New York, and dated October 2, 2025, including the following: Sheet T-1 "Title Sheet and Project Data," Sheet SP-1, "Site/Plot Plan & Zoning Data," Sheet D-1 "Demo Plan and Existing Photos," Sheet A-1, "Main Level Plan," Sheet A-2, "Upper Level Plan," Sheet A-3, "Roof Plan," Sheet A-4, "Front Elevation," Sheet A-5, "End Elevation," Sheet A-6, "Rear Elevation, and Sheet A-7, "Garage Elevation" be approved with the following conditions:

1. All information requested by the Village Engineer be provided, to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer, prior to the issuance of a building permit.
2. That the applicants apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a variance for the gazebo.

Unless a building permit is issued and work is commenced and diligently prosecuted within three years of the date of the resolution approving the site plan, such site plan shall become null and void.

The Planning Board of the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson, New York

Rob Luntz, Chairperson
John Ghegan
Geoff Haynes
Steve Krisky
Eva Thaddeus

Motion to approve by John Ghegan, seconded by Eva Thaddeus, and carried by a vote of 5 - 0.

Resolution accepted with the minutes of the meeting held on November 4, 2025.
