Police Advisory Committee Minutes
January 8, 2026, 6:30 pm
Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building
Attendance: Carolyn Whiting, John Nikitopoulos, Oﬃcer Edwin Jandres (phone),
Teri Lukin, Miles Kafka, Ian Murtaugh, and Trustee liaison Nora Nicholson.
Special guest: Resident Gustavo Delgado
1. Police-related events, information, etc to be placed on Mr. Delgado’s
Facebook page. Oﬃcer Jandres will send a link to Mr. Delgado for the
Village Facebook page so that he can share information on his Spanish
language Facebook page.
• Mr. Delgado shared that most of his Facebook users are Ecuadorian
or Guatemalan. The language is slightly diﬀerent for each, but Mr.
Delgado can correct translations as needed.
• Mr. Delgado’s Facebook page reaches an audience beyond Croton
and events may see a major upturn in attendance. Groups hosting
events should be aware of possible large attendance from people
outside of Croton if the event is advertised on Mr. Delgado’s
Facebook page. Larger event venues might be needed.
• Trustee liaison Nora Nicholson will mention Mr. Delgado’s Facebook
page to the IDEA committee.
• Mr. Delgado will add Oﬃcer Jandres as an Admin to Mr. Delgado’s
Facebook page so that Oﬃcer Jandres may share information.
• Information to be shared in small posts. All information not to be
shared in one post.
a) Link to the PAC page
b) Information about what the PAC has done and continues to do.
c) Information about the Village’s Emergency alert system
a) Information packet to be shared with Croton Caring clients in their
springtime food boxes, if Croton Caring is amenable. Carolyn Whiting will
contact a Croton Caring board member to discuss the possibility.

2.
b) Chief’s welcome letter
c) Letter from PAC and PD. Oﬃcer Jandres has written a draft letter. PAC
and Chief will review and make suggestions for any changes needed.
d) Link to PAC page and email address for PAC.
e) Information about Village Emergency alert system.
f) Additional Village information that might be useful to our Latino
residents.
3. Noise at the Grand
• Mr. Delgado reported that the noise complaints at The Grand have
not abated.
• Chief Nikitopoulos urged Mr. Delgado to share with his neighbors that
they need to call the police department when it is too noisy so that
the Police can respond. Mr. Delgado was advised that complaints can
be made anonymously.
• Chief Nikitopoulos will have oﬃcers check the area on Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday nights for noise. Mr. Delgado said those were
the noisiest nights.
4. Phone app translation
• All oﬃcers can use SIRI on their iphones or another app on their
Android phones to assist with translation. A separate system at the
PD desk is not needed.
5. Meet and greet PD/Latino community
• At a previous meeting, Mr. Delgado shared that Latino residents
would be most likely to engage with police at a sporting event such as
soccer or volleyball.
a) Croton PD and PAC will investigate hosting a one time soccer game
/ event over the summer at Croton landing. Games to consist of a
children’s game and an adult game. Croton PD will not participate
in the games due to fear of injuries but will attend and interact.
Carolyn will advise the Village manager, Recreation Advisory

Committee and the Recreation Department that the PD and PAC
are looking into this possibility.
b) Croton PD / Village might host a free ice cream truck, as is done at
National Night Out. Ice cream would be free to all attendees and
visiting the Landing at that time, bringing community together.
Number of attendees and costs need to be worked out.
c) The PAC will further discuss this event at the January 15, 2026,
meeting.
• Mr. Delgado recommended a raﬄe basket for the Latino community.
a) Raﬄe free. Donations from local businesses or paid for by PAC
budget. Valentine’s day or some other holiday. Hispanic Heritage
month?
6. English Second Language classes.
• Mr. Delgado suggested English as a Second Language class would be
extremely helpful to the Latino community.
• Guest speakers such as Police explaining ICE policy, and other topics
of interest to the attendees. Police explaining police centric phrases
such. Traﬃc stop information. An immigration attorney attend a
class.
• Chief Nikitopoulos will discuss this with School Superintendent
Stephen Walker to determine if this is something the school can do as
part of their Continuing Education program.
a) Location for class: High school or community based space such as
the Methodist church basement.
• The Recreation department could possibly host such a class in the
Community Room.
7. Racist incident
• Mr. Delgado shared that he was approached and spoken to with racist
comments in Shoprite several weeks ago by a woman in her 70s who
matched the description of a person in a recent incident.
• Chief Nikitopoulos explained that the PD is aware of the woman, such
language is not illegal but that she has been banned from Shoprite.

8. Oﬃcer Jandres reading to elementary students in Spanish.
• Oﬃcer Jandres reported that he spoke with the school about reading
to children in Spanish and they are working together to ﬁnd a date.
a) Ask the school for permission to take photos of Edwin, with no
children in the photo, to share in the Gazette and on social media.
• Carolyn Whiting suggested that Oﬃcer Jandres create a video of him
reading to students, similar to what Greenburgh PD did during the
pandemic. It can be a simple iphone video”ﬁlmed” in a police car, as
Greenburgh did. It was extremely popular in Greenburgh.
9. Video of Mr. Delgado and Oﬃcer Jandres
• Mr. Delgado suggested that a video of Mr. Delgado talking with
Oﬃcer Jandres and Oﬃcer Jandres answering questions might be
helpful to post on Mr. Delgado’s Facebook page.
10.ICE policy
• Chief Nikitopoulos explained that Lexipol has speciﬁc language that
they use in ICE policies and that the Croton PD ICE policy wording
might need to be altered to be consistent with Accreditation
requirements. Chief Nikitopoulos will discuss this with Manager
Healy.
11.Lationo meetings
• Mr. Delgado explained that while Ossining Latinos hold meeting, the
Croton Latino community does not. Ossining PD attends the Ossining
meetings.
12. We will meet again with Mr. Delgado soon, once some items discussed at
the January 8, 2026, meeting are further investigated as to if they can
happen. Mr. Delgado is open to continuing the conversation.

