Draft Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 26, 2025

Roll Call: C. Colombo, C. Caterino, J. Delaney, B. Powers, J. Streany, C. Sarcone, J. Gilbert,
D. Dunn, J. Karpoff, D. Vlad, J. Munson, W. Skiba
EXCUSED: M. Feminella (162), P. Dinkler
Department Members: F. Streany (274)
Others in Attendance: B. Pugh (Mayor), B. Healy (Village Manager)
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for
Deceased Members by Chief Colombo at 19:00.
Special Orders of Business / Reports: Bryan Healy reports an update that the stairs were
poured last Friday in the back part of the EMS Building, and the work crews should be out of the
FD part for the most part as they have access to the 2nd floor. The alarm company has been
here changing out the alarm system. The new sprinkler heads are in, and the completion date is
looking like the end of October. It was delayed due to the HVAC system. Then DPW will be
focusing on the project at Washington Engine recreating the front to put in some more parking.
Chief Columbo asked Bryan Healy if the overhaul included the duct detectors and Bryan Healy
replied I believe it was everything and I will Confirm. Brian Powers asked Bryan Healy will all
that construction stuff be out of the alley before Fire Fair because we use it to set up our demos
and he replied that he will find out but did say that they will be constructing a dumpster
enclosure on the east side of the alley and the dumpster area will be monitored.

Approval of Previous Months Meeting’s Minutes:
Motion J. Streany/ 2nd by J. Munson to Approve July Fire Council Minutes – CARRIED

Bills and Communications:
1.

Letter from Frank Streany regarding Department physicals. That we have 30 people
without physicals and had samples of letters that were sent out in the past. The
discussion was moved to new Business.

2. Letter from The Firefighters home in Hudson regarding their 2nd annual open house
3. Letter from the Village regarding the tri-municipal 9/11 ceremony at the landing at 4pm
4. Dr Note Received from Kim Goldstein to return to full duty
5. Judging Gig Sheets from the Ossining parade received

Draft Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 26, 2025

6. Letter from Westchester County Volunteer Firefighter’s Association regarding upcoming
Convention info and CFD Council Dues notice (Passed on to Treasurer P. Dinkler)
Motion Made by D. Vlad 2nd by J. Streany Motion Carried
7. Letter From the Fireman's Home looking for money on the wall of heroes Motion Made
by D.Vald to send $25 2nd by J. Gilbert Motion Carried
8. Notification letter from Selective Insurance for fire council to keep with our policy that our
policy will be coming up for renewal no price on it (Passed on to Treasurer P. Dinkler)
9. Letter from Chase Bank regarding the official custodians on Deposit Account for fire
council (Passed on to Treasurer P. Dinkler)
10. Application Received from Harmon Engine for Christopher M Spano Jr for Active
Membership (Already Got FF1) Motion made to accept by J. Gilbert 2nd by J. Munson
Motion Carried.
11. Received the slate of officers from Fire Patrol for 2026 to be sent to the investigative
committee.
12. Received School Leave Request from Weco Members: Xan Cohen, Ryan Eng, Bryce
Laemmel & Preston Hagen. A Motion Made to accept by D. Vlad 2nd by J. Streany
Motion carried
13. Application Received from Weco for Michael John Sena PAF Membership. A Motion to
accept by J. Streany 2nd by J. Gilbert Motion Carried

14. Application Received from Weco for Thomas Cornell for PAF Membership. A Motion to
accept By J.Munson 2nd J.Streany Motion Carried

Reports of the Chiefs:
P. Dinkler (2081) No Report

C. Colombo (2082) Physicals are a little hot topic right now. Please remind the guys and gals
to get them done so we can protect them both health wise because it helps them and the Dept.
Officer please just stay up on your people and make sure, they get them done. Thank you to
both Chemical Engine and Harmon Engine for the Invites to go upstate. It was nice to hang out
with families and not have the fire BS to deal with and relax. And i Appreciate the ability to drive

Draft Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 26, 2025

the car up there thank Mr.Village Manager. J. Munson asked if they were allowed to take the car
up there and not leave it in the district to cover calls and Chief Columbo replied i asked and was
told ok. Obviously thank you for coming out to all the calls and all the nonsense that comes with
it. The houses Washington and Harmon are both going to be having work done and they are
working on both ice machines in both buildings. B. Healy said he approved the work orders for
the AC units at Grand Street. J. Gilbert asked if there is any work planned like on the outside of
Grand Street. There are things scheduled for 2027 to be done. Confirmed by B. Healy.
D. Vlad to F. Streany about the Kitchen hood not being cleaned fully. F. Streany said he was
told it was cleaned.

C.Caterino (2083) Thank you to all the companies for the invites to all the social things that
went on. Operationally in July it is one of our busiest months in a while. There's a lot of projects
within the dept. Please be good neighbors while this is going on and things will go smooth and
quicker. We have had a few good drills, one being a rope rescue drill at the dam on one of the
trails where we have rescued a few people already. Inspection is coming up on September 14th
@ Croton Pt. Tommy wanted me to mention the fire fair which is coming up in October. J.
Delaney asked if there were any meetings planned. And D. Vlad said he was also supposed to
get him a letter for ShopRite and that last D. Vlad spoke to Audry Dinkler she did still be
involved in the Fire Fair. B. Powers just confirmed with Chief Caterino that everything is at
Croton Point. J. Streany mentioned that there was talk at the last council meeting about
dedicating fire Fair to Tex but at WECO company meeting there was talk that Audry wanted to
dedicate it to Tex and Dick Nagle. Chief Caterino confirms that T.Kaplan is aware that it was a
voiced concern from Audry.

Reports of Committees:
Ladder 44 New truck - No Update but still on track for October 2027
Engine 120 New truck - We had a Mid-sized Engine come down and we did like it. Working
with the sales rep on a few questions and getting rough specs set for us drawn up. There was a
discussion on the color and why we are spending money on a truck that doesn't get out. J.
Streany said with all the new apartments coming in that we should only look at nothing more
than a full-size class A pumper that can hold the hose we need. J. Delaney said talking to the
sales Rep the Mid-size engine can hold all the hose the current engine has. J. Gilbert said his
opinion is that the new E120 should be able to fit in all the firehouses that way if another engine
goes OOS, then they would take the new engine to their firehouse. D. Vlad said let's clear the
air that if it wasn't for J. Munson and J. Streany that 119 wouldn't be able to get out most of the

Draft Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 26, 2025

time. All companies struggle and right now it's currently 120 that's hurting and we all gotta work
together.
Engine 119 New truck - Still waiting on the specs from Seagrave for the new truck
Mini Attack 33 (UTV): Still waiting on some change orders to be made on and have not heard
from in almost 5 weeks
Chief Columbo asked J. Munson where do we stand with the Knox boxes. J.Munson said we
have to locate the programming key which we have not yet
Big Bucks: J. Streany had provided the report for big bucks and noted that he had not
received from Hook and Ladder the check for $3,000 for their portion. D. Vlad started a convo
regarding that we can't continuously sell and hand in tickets while walking down the street and
cutting the tie as we bring it down because it looks bad. D. Vlad, let's have a deadline to hand it
in. C. Colombo said we need a new drum. Maybe bring the drum down an hour early un tied
and sell them from the table. D.Vlad had also questioned that there was a delay on the
committee chair notifying both Big Bucks winners.
Motion made by J. Streany to purchase a new raffle drum 2nd by J. Gilbert Motion Carried

Training: Some or most people have asked to set up a meeting, and we will be doing that in the
near future. To talk about training and ideas and please stop doing same day notifications. C.
Columbo said EMS would like to plan joint training between EMS and FD.
Inspection: Covered under Chief Caterino Report
Parade Committee: J. Gilbert I know im not on the parade committee but i know the convention
is coming up and E118 will be just coming back, and we deal with the rushing around and will
be backing out idk if 120 wants to go. J. Delaney advised that there are rumors that Chief
Dinkler said it was going to be who won the inspection. Chief Columbo said 120 can go. J.
Gilbert said from an operational standpoint do we think it's smart to send an Engine out of town
if 118 is not back yet. We Have the Tanker. Discussion made not to go to the 9/20 convention
parade.
Losap Committee: No Report
Fire Prevention Committee: Was covered under C. Caterino Report

Draft Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 26, 2025
Unfinished Business: Croton Seniors used the building on Friday and there was a broken
table and floors were dirty etc. Chief Dinkler will reach out to the rec dept. (D. Vlad said that
the village replaced 1 table.
Chief Dinkler brought up to council to get a new ex-chief plaque at the administration
building. We have 76 names currently on there and 2 quotes, one that holds 120 which is
$1200 and one that holds 96 which is $984 Questions by 2081 about holding off till we
figure out everything with the fund drive and the Finances

5% not being met by some members for 2 or 3 years straight. Discussion regarding the
members regarding call Percentages. The only Member that is still here that has not made
5% in 2023 and 2024 was C. Delaney J. Gilbert asked what happens if you don't make your
percentage in 2 years. D. Vlad said for C. Delaney to come up Infront of the council and
explain why. Per C. Columbo, can everyone please go through their rolls and make sure
everyone is marked properly. There were discussions on the discrepancies between the
reports. J. Gilbert made a motion to use the paperwork to send a letter that they are being
dropped and have the right to appeal at the next council meeting. 2nd by J. Streany Motion
Carried J. Munson to send J. Delaney the letter he used.
New Business: D.Vlad questioned that F. Streany brought up disqualifying people from
Losap for not making their physicals. C. Columbo said he words things oddly and the way
he understood it was that if you don't have your physical you can't go to calls and drills and
they are. D. Vlad what right does he have to take people out of stuff. Then there was a
lengthy discussion on the Dept Physicals issue and Losap together. J. Streany said it must
be their responsibility to make sure they make 5% of their calls, get your Osha training and
get their physicals done.
W. Skiba brought up that one of his members wanted to get rid of his motorcycle and
wanted to raffle it off through the company and everyone said you can't do it. 1st can't raffle
something that the fire company don't own and 2nd all raffles must be approved by the
council then approved by the village and that's not going to happen.
D. Vlad Brought up asking about the rules if someone gets into an accident with a rig or
dept vehicle. People asking questions or assuming and wanting to clear it up. C. Columbo
said that previously it was the chief's choice that they would rather get the truck out instead
of suspending someone. J. Munson said there is no policy, just a guideline and we need to
get a policy in place.
J. Munson brought up that we are getting shirts for fire fair like we did last year and he
would like to give our members the opportunity to buy extra ones they don't pay for, they
don't get ordered and it will only be the cost of the shirt we won't be making money on them.

Draft Minutes of Croton Fire Council Regular Meeting
Tuesday, August 26, 2025

Just got to confirm who it's in memory of. Motion made by J. Gilbert 2nd By J. Delaney
Motion Carried
J. Streany mentioned that after talking to Frank and Phil very few people have signed up for
the Inspection and feels that all the Members need to be Reminded to sign up if they plan
on coming. The only Guest would be the visiting Chiefs.
Treasurer’s Report: No Report

Motion to Adjourn by D. Vlad/2nd B. Powers - CARRIED Meeting Adjourned @ 21:15
Draft Minutes Respectfully Submitted by John E Delaney Jr, Secretary on 9/8/25.

