Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting
Monday, December 8, 2025
Present: Debi Braddick, Emily Boglioli, Pete Sedlmair, Karen Pecora, Kyle Raum,
John Sasso, Nora Nicholson, John Bouchard, and Mark Duncan.
Meeting Called to Order: The meeting was opened at 7:00 p.m. by Debi.
Approval of Minutes: The November minutes were approved.

Dog Park Usage for School District Residents: The Recreation Advisory
Committee discussed adding 12 households to be able to use the Dog Park. They
thought that it would be viable to allow the 12 households to do so with a fee.
The Committee also discussed the possibility of extending the weekend and
holiday hours to 6:00 p.m. Debi will write a memo to the Village Board for their
approval of these recommendations.

Possible AED for Black Rock & CPR Class: The Recreation Advisory Committee
discussed the possibility of adding an AED to Black Rock Park and adding a CPR
class to the Spring/Summer brochure. Mark stated that he will look into a class for
the Spring/Summer brochure. Debi will write a memo to the Village Board to
advocate for an AED at Black Rock Park.

Softball Inquiry: Mark stated that offering softball would involve a lot of time and
resources. First and foremost, the things that need to be considered are: field
availability, scheduling of teams, umpires ($65 per game), and equipment costs
(softballs, bases, bats). Another consideration is DPW field maintenance (lining,
using the tracker for the infield, and raking). DPW would also need to spend 1–2
hours preparing the field for each game. Other neighboring municipalities, such as
Cortlandt and Ossining, have softball programs that could be utilized.

Parks Update: John Bouchard provided updates on some recent and upcoming
projects.
•

•
•
•

The Dobbs Park baseball field and fencing have been completed. The
demolition of the old playground equipment will begin sometime in
February.
The peace pole has been installed at Croton Landing.
The handrails have been installed at the Bocce courts at Black Rock.
The fields are closed for the winter, and tarps have been applied to them.

Recreation Update:
•

•

The tree lighting was held on Thursday, December 4, at 6:00 p.m. and was
well attended despite the cold. Approximately 200–250 people were in
attendance, with caroling, giveaways, and refreshments for those who
attended.
The Winter Brochure was released on December 2, and registration is going
well.

Memorial Bench: The Recreation Advisory Committee reviewed a bench
application for Asher Fried that was submitted by Susan Mandel. The Committee
accepted the form and recommended that the bench be located at Duck Pond
Park. John Bouchard will reach out to Susan to discuss the bench location and
details.
Gouveia Update: Nora mentioned that a presentation of the timeline on the
progress of Gouveia Park may take place in the near future. She also mentioned
that the Board is looking to make some small improvements within the park as
well.
Adjournment: The meeting was adjourned at 7:55 p.m.
The next regular meeting is scheduled for Monday, January 12, 2026, at 7:00 p.m.

