Roll Call : C.Colombo(133), J.Delaney(350), B.Powers(474), J.Streany(275), C.Caterino(539)
J.Karpoff(487), T. Kaplan(501),W.Skiba(267), C.Sarcone(259), D.Vlad(318),
J.Gilbert(548),D.Dunn(342)
EXCUSED: J. Munson (221), P.Dinkler (150)
Department Members: W. Vlad (292), B. Cerrato (128), E. Conti (137)
Others in Attendance: B.Healy
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by C.Colombo at 19:02
Special Orders of Business / Reports:
B. Healy Reported that the governor Has signed legislation to regularize company and
department. Sometime ago the company and department elections were moved to December.
J. Streany started a conversation about how much a career firefighter get on workman's comp
compared to how much a volunteer firefighter gets and we fight the same fires side by side. J.
Streany said he was hoping the mayor would be here but hes not. J. Streany said to B. Healy he
hopes that the board would endorse along with us to say that equity get pushed along and have
the governor to sign a bill to effectively legislate that. B. Healy said if the council wants to send a
letter or a email to put it on the boards agenda that the boards trying to get all the committees
and council to do it that way for more transparency.

J. Streany made a motion for the council to endorce a letter to the board through the village
manager to get the govornor to put a bill to even the amount of money that volunteers and
career Fireﬁghters get in workmans comp into legislation., 2nd by C. Sarcone - Carried.
W. Vlad mentioned something prior to running out for the call about the parking outside of
Harmon Firehouse. C.Colombo said to Healy about it. B.Healy said the gist of it is that he
understands that there were 2 calls yesterday and Harmon Engine tried to respond and couldn’t
go out the normal way cause there was landscaping trucks lined up on Benedict by the gas
station and they had to go out the wrong way to get out to Riverside Ave. B.Healy said he will
talk to the police chief and DPW superintendent to see if we can make any changes. C.Colombo
said we were talking about this the other day even with all the construction going on putting
signs up that say, “Fireman Parking Only” and B. Powers said even if we did it from the driveway
to the corner. Once the EMS building is done there will be some “Fireman Parking Only” in the
new lot where the EMS house use to be. J. Streany asked B. Healy about the spots across from
the apartment building are they permit spots. B. healy said yes, they are and they ﬁll up very
quick.
D. Vlad to B. Healy back when we were discussing the EMS Building we were told a lot of things.
We were supposed to get our whole room back and now were being told were not getting the 2
bunk rooms back that there turning it into a storage closet. And i think at this time it would be
fair that it gets turned back over to the ﬁre dept so when we have standbys, we have a place to

sleep instead of sleeping on chairs and couches like we do right now. I don’t know when things
got changed I was at a lot of the meetings or B.Powers was at them. We understand there's a lot
of conversation on one side of the table and not of conversation on the other side of the table.
J. Karpoﬀ said from what i remember from the beginning cause i went to all the meetings was
that those two rooms were staying with EMS. D.Vlad said that may have been at the private
meetings that Ems had with the village B. Healy said there were meetings at the municipal
building that Harmon did not attend. B. Healy said that there were discussions about needing
the storage and that FD would get all but those 2 rooms back. J.Karpoﬀ said that he had a email
that was sent to the council on august 30,2024 with drawings and the stairs and the 2 rooms in
question were in there. So, then there was a discussion, and they were going back and for
Approval of Previous Months Meetings Minutes:
Motion C. Sarcone/ 2nd B. Powers - Under Question by J. Streany regarding something that was
missed. Approval Not accepted and tabled till next meeting for correction.
Bills and Communications:
1) Received letter from Harmon Engine with their 2026 slate of officers
2) Received a letter from Washington Eng. With there 2026 slate of officers
3) Received a letter from Chemical Eng. with their 2026 slate of oﬃcer
4) Received a letter from Hook & Ladder with their 2026 slate of oﬃcer
5) Received a letter from Chemical Engine stating that Rob Pappas has resigned from
Croton Fire Department. Motion By T. Kaplan 2nd Skiba Motion Carried
6) Received an Application for Active membership from Chemical Eng for a Michael Riecke
Motion By T. Kaplan/ 2nd W. Skiba Motion carried pending arson investigation.
5) Received a notice of reduction in coverage from Selective Insurance to be put in
P. Dinklers box
6) Received a letter from Shoprite for “help bag hunger” on Tuesday September 30th,2025
7) Received School leave forms from Harmon Eng members Samantha Delaney, Christopher
Spano and Ashley Kempter. Motion by: W. Skiba / 2nd: T. Kaplan Motion Carried
8) Received a letter from Columbian Hook and Ladder Company requesting for an
injunction, pursuant to Article III, Section 3 of the Croton-On-Hudson Fire Department By-Laws.
Put in for new Business.
9) Received letter from Columbian Hook and Ladder Nominating Chief Chris Caterino for 1st
Asst Chief for 2026.
Reports of the Chiefs:

P. Dinkler (2081) No Report

C. Colombo (2082)
Congrats to TL44 for winning inspection and everyone else looked good. Its a tough
week preparing for that and busting each others chops but congrats to the ladder again.
Inspection as Chris said went great there was a low attendance because there was other stuff
going on in the county.
Fire Fair is coming up and tommy puts a lot of time into that and i appreciate all the
hard work seeing everyone helping out last night filling the bags for the school. And it was great
to see Audry there helping out which is nice it shows that she still wants to be involved. It is
going to be strange not seeing tex there but tommy does a great job.
Calls which is our our bread and butter per say i wanna thank everyone for coming out
and helping get calls covered. Construction you see it its out there.
C.Caterino (2083) I think inspection went very well and I’m looking to have it at croton point
again next year.
Reports of Committees:
Ladder 44 New truck – No Report
Engine 120 New truck – No Report
Engine 119 New truck – We did have convo with the vendor and apparently, they switched
over to a new platform a design to put all the specifications in a computer. It's going to take a
couple of weeks to input to do that and get back to us. We expect to be on track in like 2 weeks
to finalize.
Mini Attack 33 (UTV): No Report
Nomination Committee: J. Karpoff to Chair but need 1 member from each company. All
picked except Harmon Engine.
Big Bucks: No Report
Training: No Report
Inspection: Handled under C. Caterino’s report

Parade Committee: No Report
Losap Committee: No Report
Fire Prevention Committee: I want to thank everyone for helping out with the school bag
stuffing. We will have CET tomorrow which i believe J. Delaney will be bringing E120 and i will
have J. Cusano to help me out as well. Sunday is Fire Fire and all help is needed no matter
which time of the day you can give some time to help out. This year it is in dedication of Tex
Dinkler and D. Nagle and there will be a lil dedication corner. B. Powers asked about the county
health dept and T. Kaplan said he will follow up with the village office. B. Powers confirmed that
Fire Patrol was asked about the use of there grill for the day. T. Kaplan said yes C. Caterino
handled that.
Unfinished Business: J. Streany brought up that the Council had requested a percentage of
call letter to go out. Munson sent the wrong letter to the council secretary, so it took a little while
longer to go out. J. Delaney said phil had said to put either September's meeting or October's
meeting for said person to show up at. J. Delaney said it was sent out and was signed for
because it was return receipt.

New Business:
Received a new email from Washington Engine with an addition to their communications
which read that Washington Engine Co is nominating Joseph Streany for the position of 2nd
Asst Chief for 2026
J. Karpoff to make a motion to send all nominations to the investigative Committee.
Motion made by J. Karpoff / 2nd by J. Gilbert Motion Carried
J. Karpoff asking does this letter have what qualifications he does have from the marines. T.
Kaplan said he is just waiting for copies of the certificates but J. Cusano is currently on the
call.
J. Karpoff made motion to send this to the investigative committee to review the alternative
courses. 2nd J. Gilbert there was a discussion on this matter. All agreed that the committee
will come back with their findings.
J. Streany said if any of the companies want to participate in the emergency responders golf
outing on October 20th. Anyone interested joe has the info.
Treasurer’s Report: No Report
Motion to Adjourn by. D.Vlad /2nd by. B. Powers - CARRIED Meeting Adjourned @ 19:52

Draft Minutes Respectfully Submitted by John E Delaney Jr, Secretary on 9/8/25.

