Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, October 29, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi
Trustee Slippen

1. Mayor Pugh called the regular meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. Presentation of Certificates of Recognition to the 2024 Top Responders in the
Croton on Hudson Fire Department.
3. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 26002604-26002918. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$473,070.47
$56,902.40
$7,015.76
$640,143.05
$8,500.00

4. LWRP Consistency Review for the application of epoxy and preformed
pavement markings over existing markings, and re-marking and re-applying
long line pavement markings to restore marking visibility on various state
highways in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
Policy

DEVELOPMENT POLICIES

1

Restore,
revitalize,
and
redevelop
deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural,
recreational and other compatible uses.
Encourage integrated development of
Village property to assure fulfillment of
requirements relating to parking and
accessory uses of Metro-North train
station, while facilitating public access to
the bay area and recreational use.
Encourage restoration of deteriorating
structures related to railroad use and

1A

1B

Applicable
Yes/No
No

No

No

Consistent
Yes/No

Applicable
Yes/No

Consistent
Yes/No

Comments

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 2

1C

2
2A

3

4

5

5A

6
6A

7

7A

assure appropriate maintenance and
screening to reduce visual impact.
Encourage the appropriate re-use of the
old sewage treatment plant site at the
intersection of Route 9A and Municipal
Place.
Facilitate the siting of water dependent
uses and facilities on or adjacent to
coastal waters.
Encourage water-enhanced commercial
uses where such uses complement water
dependent uses and do not result in
displacement of such uses.
Further develop the State’s existing major
ports of Albany, Buffalo, New York,
Ogdensburg and Oswego as centers of
commerce and industry, and encourage
the siting, in these port areas, including
those under the jurisdiction of State public
authorities, of land use and development
which is essential to, or in support of,
waterborne transportation of cargo and
people.
Strengthen the economic base of smaller
harbor areas by encouraging the
development and enhancement of those
traditional uses and activities which have
provided such areas with their unique
maritime identity.
Encourage the location of development in
areas where public services and facilities
essential to such development are
adequate.
When feasible, development within the
Village should be directed within the
current service area of existing water and
sewer facilities or in close proximity to
areas where distribution lines currently
exist.
Expedite permit procedures in order to
facilitate the siting of development
activities at suitable locations
To expedite permit procedures, the Village
shall coordinate all relevant local laws into
a development package for applicants
and/or make all local laws available to
applicants proposing development
activities.
FISH & WILDLIFE POLICIES
Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats
will be protected, preserved, and, where
practical, restored so as to maintain their
viability as habitats.
The quality of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Coastal Fish and Wildlife
Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant
Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be protected

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No
No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 3

7B

7C

7D

7E

7F

7G

7H

8

and improved for conservation, economic,
aesthetic, recreational, and other public
uses and values. Its resources shall be
protected from the threat of pollution,
misuse, and mismanagement.
Materials that can degrade water quality
and degrade or destroy the ecological
system of the Croton River and Bay
Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat and
the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of or
allowed to drain in, or on land within, the
area of influence in the significant fish and
wildlife habitats.
Storage of materials that can degrade
water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and
Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat or
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted
within the area of influence of the habitat
unless best available technology is used to
prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
Restoration of degraded ecological
elements of the Croton River and Bay and
Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and
Wildlife Habitats and shorelands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of
any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
site
Runoff from public and private parking lots
and from storm sewer overflows shall be
effectively managed so as to prevent oil,
grease, and other contaminants from
polluting surface and ground water and
impact to the significant fish and wildlife
habitats.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause a measurable increase in erosion or
flooding at the site of such activity, or
impact other locations. Construction
activity in the Croton River and Hudson
River spawning areas shall be timed so
that spawning of anadromous fish species
and shellfish will not be adversely affected.
Construction activity of any kind must not
cause significant degradation of water
quality or impact identified significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Habitat-related policies identified in the
Indian Brook-Croton Gorge Watershed
Conservation Action Plan will be
considered in actions proposed for these
areas (see Appendix C).
Protect fish and wildlife resources in the
coastal area from the introduction of
hazardous waste and other pollutants

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No

Np

Yes

No

Yes

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 4

9

9A

9B

10

11

12

12A

13

which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub-lethal or lethal
effects on those resources.
Expand recreational use of fish and wildlife
resources in coastal areas by increasing
access
to
existing
resources,
supplementing existing stocks, and
developing new.
Ensure continued recreational use and
public access to the rivers through Village
owned land adjacent to the railroad parking
lot, at Croton Point Park, at Senasqua and
Croton Landing Parks, along the Croton
River, and at the Croton Yacht Club. Efforts
should be made to increase opportunities
for public access and enjoyment in these
areas.
Encourage passive recreational enjoyment
of the wildlife in the designated significant
fish and wildlife habitats, on the Audubon
Society sanctuaries, Jane Lytle Arboretum,
Gouveia Park and on other public or
private lands within the Village where
wildlife habitats are located, as well as the
protection of such resources.
Further develop commercial finfish,
shellfish and crustacean resources in the
coastal area by encouraging the
construction of new, or improvement of
existing onshore commercial fishing
facilities, increasing marketing of the
State's seafood products, maintaining
adequate
stocks
and
expanding
aquaculture facilities.
FLOODING & EROSION POLICIES
Buildings and other structures will be sited
in the coastal area so as to minimize
damage to property and the endangering
of human lives caused by flooding and
erosion.
Activities or development in the coastal
area will be undertaken so as to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion by protecting
natural protective features including
beaches, dunes, barrier islands and bluffs.
Every effort should be made to protect
Croton Point, a natural protective barrier to
Croton Bay from activities or development
that would increase erosion of or flooding
of the point.
The construction or reconstruction of
erosion protection structures shall be
undertaken only if they have a reasonable
probability of controlling erosion for at least
thirty years as demonstrated in design and

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 5

14

15

16

17

17A

18

19
19A

19B

19C

construction standards and/or assured
maintenance or replacement programs.
Activities and development, including the
construction or reconstruction of erosion
protection structures, shall be undertaken
so that there will be no measurable
increase in erosion or flooding at the site of
such activities or development, or at other
locations.
Mining, excavation or dredging in coastal
waters shall not significantly interfere with
the natural coastal processes which supply
beach materials to land adjacent to such
waters and shall be undertaken in a
manner which will not cause an increase in
erosion of such land.
Public funds shall only be used for erosion
protective structures where necessary to
protect human life, and new development
which requires a location within or adjacent
to an erosion hazard area to be able to
function, or existing development; and only
where the public benefits outweigh the
long term monetary and other costs
including the potential for increasing
erosion and adverse effects on natural
protective features.
Non-structural measures to minimize
damage to natural resources and property
from flooding and erosion shall be used
whenever possible.
Efforts to control erosion along the rivers
and on the steep slopes inland shall be of
a non-structural nature, wherever possible,
to minimize the visual impact of structural
measures.
To safeguard the vital economic, social
and environmental interests of the State
and of its citizens, proposed major actions
in the coastal area must give full
consideration to those interests, and to the
safeguards
which the State has
established to protect valuable coastal
resource areas
PUBLIC ACCESS POLICIES
Protect, maintain, and increase the level
and types of access to public waterrelated recreation resources and facilities
Encourage the linkage of open space from
upland areas to and along the Hudson and
Croton Rivers in the form of a trail or
walkway system.
Increase public access to areas that offer
physical and visual connections to the
Hudson River or Croton River and Bay.
Encourage the improvement of public
transportation, when feasible, where water

No

No

No

No

No

No

No
No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 6

19D

20

21

21A

22

23

24

25

25A

dependent and water-enhanced recreation
activities are located.
Improve and maintain access to Croton
River and Bay at the Village-owned Echo
Canoe Launch south of the Village parking
lots at the Croton-Harmon Station
Access to the publicly owned foreshore
and to lands immediately adjacent to the
foreshore or the water's edge that are
publicly owned shall be provided and it
should be provided in a manner compatible
with adjoining uses. 19 Protect, maintain,
and increase the level and types of access
recreation
to
public
water-related
resources and facilities.
Water dependent and water enhanced
recreation will be encouraged and
facilitated and will be given priority over
non-water related uses along the coast.
Boating and fishing activities should be
encouraged provided that they do not
restrict other water-related recreational
opportunities and are undertaken in a
manner compatible with existing waterdependent uses.
Development when located adjacent to the
shore will provide for water-related
recreation whenever such use is
compatible with reasonably anticipated
demand for such activities and is
compatible with the primary purpose of the
development.
HISTORIC AND SCENIC QUALITY
POLICIES
Protect, enhance and restore structures,
districts, areas or sites that are of
significance in the history, architecture,
archaeology or culture of the State, its
communities, or the Nation.
Prevent impairment of scenic resources of
statewide significance. (The nearest
scenic area of statewide significance
(SASS) is the Bear Mountain Park subunit
of the Hudson Highlands SASS which is
north of the Village)
Protect, restore or enhance natural and
man-made resources which are not
identified
as
being
of
statewide
significance, but which contribute to the
overall scenic quality of the coastal area.
Establish and protect identified public
viewsheds of the Hudson River, including
but not limited to the public views of the
Hudson River from the western shoreline

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 7

26
27

28

29

30

30A

31

32

33

of the Village, and of the Croton River and
Gorge.
ENERGY AND ICE MANAGEMENT
POLICIES
Conserve and protect agricultural lands in
the State’s coastal area.
Decisions on the siting and construction of
major energy facilities in the coastal area
will be based on public energy needs,
compatibility of such facilities with the
environment, and the facility's need for a
shorefront location.
Ice management practices shall not
interfere
with
the
production
of
hydroelectric power, damage significant
coastal fish and wildlife and their habitats,
or increase shoreline erosion or flooding..
The development of offshore uses and
resources, including renewable energy
resources, shall accommodate New York’s
long-standing ocean and Great Lakes
industries, such as commercial and
recreational
fishing
and
maritime
commerce, and the ecological functions of
habitats important to New York.
WATER AND AIR RESOURCES
POLICIES
Municipal, industrial, and commercial
discharge of pollutants, including but not
limited to, toxic and hazardous substances,
into coastal waters will conform to State
and National water quality standards.
Existing rail services and transportationrelated facilities shall not dispose of any
regulated materials in coastal waters until
all such regulated materials have been
tested by the State for conformance with
water quality standards.
State coastal area policies and
management objectives of approved local
waterfront revitalization programs will be
considered while reviewing coastal water
classifications and while modifying water
quality standards; however, those waters
already overburdened with contaminants
will be recognized as being a
development constraint.
Encourage the use of alternative or
innovative sanitary waste systems in small
communities where the costs of
conventional facilities are unreasonably
high, given the size of the existing tax base
of these communities.
Best Management Practices will be used to
ensure the control of stormwater runoff and
combined sewer overflows draining into
coastal waters.

No
No
No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

No

No

No

Yes

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 8

33A

34

34A
35

36

37

37A

38

39

40

The flow of stormwater discharge shall be
controlled to limit the flow of pollutants from
street, and parking areas, etc. directly into
the rivers and water bodies.
Discharge of waste materials into coastal
waters from vessels subject to State
jurisdiction will be limited so as to protect
significant fish and wildlife habitats,
recreational areas and water supply
areas..
Moored structures or marine vessels shall
not discharge ballast water or other
releases into the waterway.
Dredging and filling in coastal waters and
disposal of dredged material will be
undertaken in a manner that meets existing
State permit requirements, and protects
significant fish and wildlife habitats, scenic
resources, natural protective features,
important agricultural lands, and wetlands.
Activities related to the shipment and
storage of petroleum and other hazardous
materials will be conducted in a manner
that will prevent or at least minimize spills
into coastal waters; all practicable efforts
will be undertaken to expedite the cleanup
of such discharges; and restitution for
damages will be required when these spills
occur.
Best management practices will be utilized
to minimize the non-point discharge of
excess nutrients, organics and eroded
soils into coastal waters.
Control of the development of hilltops and
steep slopes should be exerted in order to
prevent erosion and minimize runoff and
flooding from new construction.
The quality and quantity of surface water
and ground water supplies will be
conserved and protected, particularly
where such waters constitute the primary
or sole source of water supply.
The transport, storage, treatment and
disposal of solid waste, particularly
hazardous waste, within coastal areas will
be conducted in such a manner so as to
protect groundwater and surface water
supplies, significant fish and wildlife
habitats, recreation areas, important
agricultural lands and scenic resources.
Effluent discharged from major steam
electric generating and industrial facilities
into coastal waters will not be unduly
injurious to fish and wildlife and shall
conform to State water quality standards..

Yes

No

No
No

No

No

No

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 9

41
42

43

44
44A

Land use or development in the coastal
area will not cause national or State air
quality standards to be violated.
Coastal management policies will be
considered if the State reclassifies land
areas pursuant to the prevention of
significant deterioration regulations of the
Federal Clean Air Act.
Land use or development in the coastal
area must not cause the generation of
significant amounts of acid rain precursors:
nitrates and sulfates.
WETLAND POLICY
Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater
wetlands and preserve the benefits derived
from these areas.
Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses
shall be protected by preventing damage
from erosion or siltation, minimizing
disturbance, preserving natural habitats
and protecting against flood and pollution.

No
No

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Board
Concurred

Resolution #244-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has adopted a Local Waterfront
Revitalization Program (LWRP) to guide the use of its waterfront and adjacent areas
in a manner consistent with sound waterfront planning and environmental protection
principles; and
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson has received a referral for review of the
New York State Department of Transportation’s proposed projects involving federal
funding for the application of epoxy and preformed pavement markings over existing
markings, and re-marking and re-applying long line pavement markings to restore
marking visibility on various state highways; and
WHEREAS, on October 14, 2025, the Village’s Waterfront Advisory Committee (WAC)
reviewed the proposed project for consistency with the policies of the LWRP; and
WHEREAS, the WAC has evaluated the Coastal Assessment Form and the policies of
the LWRP and determined that the following policies are relevant to the proposed
project:

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 10

Policy 7: Significant coastal fish and wildlife habitats will be protected, preserved,
and, where practical, restored so as to maintain their viability as habitats.
Policy 7A: The quality of the Croton River and Bay Significant Coastal Fish and
Wildlife Habitat and Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall be
protected and improved for conservation, economic, aesthetic, recreational, and
other public uses and values. Its resources shall be protected from the threat of
pollution, misuse, and mismanagement.
Policy 7B: Materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or destroy the
ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat
and the Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be disposed of
or allowed to drain in, or on land within, the area of influence in the significant fish
and wildlife habitats.
Policy 7C: Storage of materials that can degrade water quality and degrade or
destroy the ecological system of the Croton River and Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife
Habitat or Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitat shall not be permitted
within the area of influence of the habitat unless best available technology is used to
prevent adverse impacts to the habitat.
Policy 7D: Restoration of degraded ecological elements of the Croton River and Bay
and Haverstraw Bay Significant Fish and Wildlife Habitats and shorelands shall be
included in any programs for cleanup of any adjacent toxic and hazardous waste
sites.
Policy 7G: Construction activity of any kind must not cause significant degradation
of water quality or impact identified significant fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 8: Protect fish and wildlife resources in the coastal area from the introduction
of hazardous wastes and other pollutants which bio-accumulate in the food chain, or
which cause significant sub-lethal or lethal effect on those resources.
Policy 30: Ensuring that municipal, industrial, and commercial discharges of
pollutants into coastal waters conform to state and national water quality standards.
Policy 33: Implementing Best Management Practices to control stormwater runoff
and combined sewer overflows.
Policy 33A: The flow of stormwater discharge shall be controlled to limit the flow of
pollutants from street and parking areas, etc. directly into the river and water bodies.

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 11

Policy 44: Preserve and protect tidal and freshwater wetlands and preserve the
benefits derived from these areas.
Policy 44A: Wetlands, water bodies and watercourses shall be protected by
preventing damage from erosion or siltation, minimizing disturbance, preserving
natural habitats and protecting against flood and pollution.
WHEREAS, the WAC has found that the specifications for the proposed work are
protective of the environment and that the project will extend the life of the
infrastructure in a manner consistent with the LWRP, and
WHEREAS, the WAC has issued its recommendation of consistency with the LWRP,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares the proposed projects, the application of epoxy and preformed pavement
markings over existing markings, and re-marking and re-applying long line pavement
markings to restore marking visibility on various state highways, to be consistent
with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization Program.
5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None.
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS - AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that he would have
liked to have seen better awards given to the top volunteer fire department
responders, does not approve Recreation Fees on single family homes, objects
to what he considers liberal representation on some of our committees and
would like to see some balance, and believes that the selection of banners
should be open to a wider variety of people.
7. CONSENT AGENDA:
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board
approved the Consent Agenda. Motion was approved with a 5-0 Vote.
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Membership Changes in the Croton-on-Hudson Fire Department.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/f548939c69abac35b6b103b08d8658d8391f8a55.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 12

2. Memo from the Planning Board regarding Recreation Fees for Accessory
Dwelling Units.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/afec28f5eeb82d563234cc92a09f041f2490a810.pdf
3. Notice from Lucky D Thai 13 LLC, 49 North Riverside Avenue, Croton on
Hudson, of their intent to apply for a Liquor License through the New
York State Liquor Authority.
Trustee Simon welcomed Lucky D Thai to Croton.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/b87ac8684d280c07524f28f9b2dd5c821df73d4f.pdf
4. Flyer from Fox Eklof American Legion Post 505 announcing the annual
Veterans Day Ceremony to be held on November 11, 2025.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/3681947edc722e1b92e202197e2dd1e2b9e6b707.pdf
5. Letter from the Arts & Humanities Advisory Council regarding the
expansion of the Croton Artists banner program.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/177792929c364303b8081136a006f9817bf46938.pdf
Trustee Slippen advised that the committee worked hard on the banners
and looks forward to working with the committee on some of the
suggestions in their memo.
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #245-2025 On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Board of Trustees adopted Local Law No.
15 of 2021 to implement a residential parking permit system along portions of
Hastings and Young avenues; and

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 13

WHEREAS, the Village Manager conducted a survey of the remaining blocks of Young
and Hastings avenues in September 2025 to determine if the parking permit system
should be expanded; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees reviewed the results of the survey at a work
session held on October 15, 2025; and
WHEREAS, a majority of residents on all blocks between Crest Street and Devon
Avenue supported the expansion of the parking permit system; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2025 has been drafted to expand the
residential parking permit system to include all of Hastings and Young avenues
between Crest Street and Devon Avenue,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
schedules a Public Hearing to be held on November 19, 2025, at 7:00 PM in the
Georgianna Grant Meeting Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to
consider the adoption of Local Law Introductory No. 16 of 2025 to update Chapter
215, Vehicle and Traffic, of the Village Code to expand the residential parking permit
system along Hastings and Young avenues.
Resolution #246-2025 On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, Westchester County operates a firing range at the county police academy
located in Valhalla, New York; and
WHEREAS, the County permits municipal police agencies to send their public safety
employees for firearms training purposes; and
WHEREAS, the County has provided an inter-municipal agreement which authorizes
the use of such facility at the cost of $630 per visit for the period ending July 31,
2030,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute an inter-municipal agreement with Westchester County for the use of the
county firing range for firearms training purposes at the cost of $630 per visit for the
period ending July 31, 2030.

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 14

Resolution #247-2025 On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson Police Department would like to
continue participating in Westchester County’s STOP DWI Patrol Project; and
WHEREAS, this program is an overtime, added, patrol effort to enforce the New York
State Vehicle and Traffic Laws against intoxicated and impaired driving (DWI/DWAI)
in Westchester County; and
WHEREAS, the municipality may seek reimbursement from the County for an amount
not to exceed $8,400,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is authorized to sign the
STOP DWI Patrol Project intermunicipal agreement with Westchester County
commencing January 1, 2026, through December 31, 2030.
Resolution #248-2025 On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson provides snow and ice removal services
on certain New York State-owned roads in the Village, including Route 9A (North
Riverside Avenue/Albany Post Road) and Route 129 (Maple Street); and
WHEREAS, on February 26, 2025, the Village Board adopted Resolution 35-2025 to
execute an agreement with the New York State Department of Transportation
(NYSDOT) to cover the period beginning July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2029; and
WHEREAS, a supplemental agreement for the 2025-2026 winter season has been
provided to account for increased costs in labor, materials, and equipment,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
sign the Supplemental Agreement No. 2 to the 2024-2029 Municipal Snow and Ice
Agreement with the NYSDOT.

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 15

Resolution #249-2025 On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Volunteer Fire Department Service Award Program was approved by
referendum in 2003; and
WHEREAS, Penflex, Inc. provides actuarial and administrative services necessary to
administer this program; and
WHEREAS, the Village has received the annual Service Fee Agreement from Penflex
for the period November 1, 2025, through October 31, 2026,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
sign the 2025-2026 Volunteer Fire Department Service Fee Agreement in the
estimated amount of $8,700, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that funding for this agreement has been allocated in the
Fire Department - Contractual budget line A3410.4000.
Resolution #250-2025 On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson bills quarterly for water based on usage;
and
WHEREAS, the water meters that transmit usage data to the Water Department are
reaching their end of life; and
WHEREAS, dozens of meters did not transmit data during the last billing cycle,
requiring estimated bills to be generated for these properties; and
WHEREAS, the Water Department is in the process of replacing the meters as quickly
as possible; and
WHEREAS, the cost of the replacement meters was not fully funded in the 2025-2026
Water Fund budget,

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 16

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $20,000 from the Water Contingency Account
F1990.4000 to the following account: F8320.4000 (Water Supply – Contractual).
Resolution #251-2025 On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson owns and maintains two ambulances for
Croton EMS; and
WHEREAS, Ambulance 55B2 recently had a failure of the diesel particulate filter,
which was not covered under warranty; and
WHEREAS, the cost of repairs has depleted the vehicle repair line in the EMS budget
account,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $10,000 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account: A4540.4710 (Ambulance – Vehicle Repairs).
c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on October 8,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on October 8,
2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on October
15, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Politi and approved with a 5-0 vote.
8. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #252-2025

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 17

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
Authorizing the implementation, and funding in the first instance 100% of the
federal-aid eligible costs, of a transportation federal-aid project, and appropriating
funds, therefore.
WHEREAS, a Project for the Paving in Downtown Croton: Westchester County, Village
of Croton-on-Hudson and Town of Cortlandt, PIN 8763.03 (the “Project") is eligible
for funding under Title 23 U.S. Code, as amended, that calls for the apportionment
of the costs such program to be borne at the ratio of 80% Federal funds and 20%
non-federal funds, and
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to advance the Project by making
a commitment of 100% of the non-federal share of the costs of Construction and
Construction Inspection.
NOW THEREFORE the Village Board duly convened does hereby RESOLVE that the
Village Board hereby approves the above subject project; and
it is hereby further RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson to pay in the first instance 100% of the federal and non-federal
share of the cost of Construction and Construction Inspection work for the Project or
portions thereof, and
it is further RESOLVED that the sum of $1,032,000 is hereby appropriated from
capital account H5110.2106.24463 and made available to cover the cost of
participation in the above phase of the Project, and
it is further RESOLVED that in the event that full federal and non-federal share costs
of the project exceeds the amount appropriated above, the Village Board shall
convene as soon as possible to appropriate said excess amount immediately upon
the notification by the Village Manager thereof, and
it is further RESOLVED that the Village Manager of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson
be and is hereby authorized to execute all necessary Agreements, certifications or
reimbursement requests for Federal Aid and/or applicable Marchiselli Aid on behalf of
the Village of Croton-on-Hudson with the New York State Department of
Transportation in connection with the advancement or approval of the Project and
providing for the administration of the Project and the municipality's first instance
funding of project costs and permanent funding of the local share of federal-aid and

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 18

state-aid eligible Project costs and all Project costs within appropriations therefore
that are not so eligible, and
it is further RESOLVED that in addition to the Village Manager, the following municipal
titles: Superintendent of Public Works, Village Engineer, Village Treasurer, and
Village Clerk, are also hereby authorized to execute any necessary Agreements or
certifications on behalf of the Municipality/Sponsor, with NYSDOT in connection with
the advancement or approval of the project identified in the State/Local Agreement,
and
it is further RESOLVED that a certified copy of this resolution be filed with the New
York State Commissioner of Transportation by attaching it to any necessary
Agreement in connection with the Project, and
it is further RESOLVED that this Resolution shall take effect immediately.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon directed everyone to the project page on the Village’s web site for
more information on the project.
Village Manager Healy advised that this was money that was originally given to the
Village approximately fifteen years ago when Congressman Hall was in office, former
Village Manager King was instrumental in starting this process to get the funds reappropriated and we are happy that we can put these funds to good use.
Resolution #253-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, Chapter 206, Telecommunications Towers, of the Village Code was
adopted in 1998; and
WHEREAS, cellular technology has changed significantly over the past 27 years; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees desires
Telecommunications Chapter of the Village Code; and

to

adopt

a

revised

WHEREAS, Cohen Law Group has provided a proposal in an amount not to exceed
$3,750 to assist the Village in reviewing a draft local law to replace Chapter 206 of
the Village Code,

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 19

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby accepts
the proposal from Cohen Law Group of Pittsburgh, PA, in an amount not to exceed
$3,750, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to sign the
engagement letter with Cohen Law Group.
Resolution #254-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE POLITI, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, in 2022, the Village Board of Trustees authorized General Code to conduct
a complete review of the Village Code to identify archaic language, inconsistencies
and recommended changes; and
WHEREAS, General Code recommended that four chapters of the Village Code be
reviewed by technical specialists; and
WHEREAS, these chapters were identified as Chapter 113, Electrical; Chapter 175,
Plumbing; Chapter 191, Sewers; and Chapter 223, Water; and
WHEREAS, LaBella Associates, D.P.C., of White Plains, New York, has submitted a
proposal and agreement for their review of these chapters of the Village Code in the
not-to-exceed amount of $6,950,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to execute the agreement with LaBella Associates,
D.P.C., for services related to the review of the aforementioned chapters of the Village
Code in the not to exceed amount of $6,950.
Resolution #255-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Lorraine Hansberry Coalition (LHC) was established in 2021 as a subcommittee of the IDEA Advisory Committee; and

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 20

WHEREAS, the coalition serves to celebrate the life of playwright, author and activist
Lorraine Hansberry, who lived just outside the Village boundaries in the 1960s and is
buried at Bethel Cemetery; and
WHEREAS, Westchester County has provided an inter-municipal agreement to
support the programs and activities of the LHC in the amount of $5,000,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Manager is hereby authorized to
execute an inter-municipal agreement with Westchester County related to funding
for the Lorraine Hansberry Coalition in the amount of $5,000; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Treasurer is hereby authorized to make
the following budget amendment upon receipt of the county funding:
GENERAL EXPENSES
Increase
A8040.4000

Human Rights – Contractual

$5,000

GENERAL REVENUES
Increase
A1000.2362

Cultural Services – Other Gov’ts

$5,000

DISCUSSION:
Trustee Nicholson gave an overview of the celebrations that were held on October 4th
and 5th, for more information on those celebrations, you may log onto their website.
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/idea-advisory-committee/pages/lorrainehansberry-coalition
9. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed the boycott of
CVS for their promotion of abortion drugs, encouraged everyone to come out
to vote on the upcoming local election and believes that local elections should
be held in March and advised that the IDEA Committee has not held zoom
meetings.
David Lowell, 52 Farrington Road, Croton on Hudson, submitted a written
comment requesting that the Village implement a permanent ban on gaspowered leaf blowers. To read the full comment, you may click on the
following:

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 21

https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/4402aaf14c0c4a283317dbae818687e00bd3e322.pdf
10. REPORTS:
Trustee Slippen asked that since SNAP benefits will end this Saturday, the
Village post organizations that are available to assist residents on our website
indicating locations where people can get food assistance, and encouraged
everyone to be aware of the Proposition on the back of their ballot, the ballot
is available at Village Hall, for information on the Proposition, you may log onto
the following:
https://elections.ny.gov/2025-statewide-ballot-proposal
Village Manager Healy advised that Sample Ballots are available at Village Hall,
as well as on our Facebook page and website.
Trustee Nicholson thanked the Recreation and DPW Departments for their hard
work on the many recent fall events.
Trustee Simon advised that on October 20th he attended a meeting with the
Westchester County Board of Legislators supporting the proposed funding for
the Brook Street drainage projects, October 11th Hispanic Heritage celebrations
were held, October 18 the HEART Committee held a Health Fair and honored
Dr. Books, Dr. Hill, Dr. Semisa, Dr. Vogel, Croton Animal Hospital and Croton
Veterinary Clinic, on October 25 the annual Goblin and Dog Parades were held,
thanked everyone who participated in the Oct 19 Harry Chapin Run Against
Hunger event, the Association of Businesses will be holding a meeting on
Monday, November 17th with all businesses in Croton, on October 7th,
Congressman George Latimer invited Croton to sit in on his monthly call where
he discussed upcoming grants and the effects of the government shut down,
attended the Fire Council meeting last night, participated in a gathering with
Mothers out Front supporting the repeal of the “One Hundred Foot Rule” (for
more
information
you
may
log
onto
the
following:
https://www.albanylaw.edu/government-law-center/100-foot-rule, the Rotary
will be holding their Thanksgiving Turkey Trott at Spencer Field, all monies
collected will go to the Maria Fareri Children’s Hospital, and a bike skills class
will be held on November 22nd from 10:00 to 1:30pm at Village Hall.

Village Board of Trustees
October 29, 2025
Page 22

Mayor Pugh thanked the Heart Committee for putting together the Health Fair,
as well as their preventative health education work and for providing
information to everyone and thanked Karen Vogel on a successful Gobin Walk
Village Manager Healy advised that Seasonal Parking Permits are on sale now,
permits will be required after Nov 1, leaf pick-up will start next week, early
voting continues at Village Hall and information can be found on the Village’s
website, advised that the Westchester County Board of Legislators approved
the advanced funding for the Brook Street drainage project and directed
everyone to the village’s project page for more information.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting and enter into an Executive Session to discuss matters of personnel involving
specific individuals was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 8:02pm.

Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

