Recreation Advisory Committee Meeting
Monday, October 6, 2025
Present: Emily Boglioli, Debi Braddick, Pete Sedlemair, John Sasso, Karen
Pecora, Kyle Raum, Maria Slippen, and Mark Duncan
Meeting Called to Order: The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. by Debi.
Approval of Minutes: The September minutes were approved.
Reviews of Parks by Committee Members: The Recreation Advisory Committee
members were asked by Debi to visit and review the parks in Croton.
•
•

•

•

•

•

Croton Landing – Pete S. went to Croton Landing and reported that all
looked good, stating that the field and walkway were in good shape.
Sunset and Harrison St. Parks – Kyle R. went to Sunset and Harrison Park
and reported that the two parks looked good. Emily B. also went to Sunset
and stated that the benches looked a little worn, but other than that, the park
was looking good.
Vassallo Park – Debi said that other than the worn-down area in the middle
of the park, Vassallo Park looked good. Mark stated that the middle of the
park is where the organizations utilize the park.
Dobbs Park – The playground work will begin soon, along with the
installation of the new sod for the baseball infield and fencing. This is all
expected to be completed in early spring (April).
Black Rock Park – John S. talked about the dog park and mentioned that
there are some small maintenance issues that should be addressed, such as
some branches that need to be removed, replacement of an old picnic table,
and the possibility of installing a bench. It was noted that any maintenance
issues should be directed to DPW to be rectified.
Duck Pond Park – Debi mentioned that the Duck Pond Park looked good
but did note that the benches across from the diner were getting worn.

Miscellaneous: Mark mentioned that the Fall Family Fun Event will be on
October 18th and the Goblin Walk will take place on October 25th.
Adjournment: The meeting was adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
The next regular meeting is scheduled for Monday, November 10, 2025, at 7:00
p.m.

