MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Nov. 9, 2025 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Edwin Adkins
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coord.)
Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Carly Shanks
Len Simon (Village Trustee)

Absent:

Cheryl Wong (food scrap program)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): none
Announcements: Len told us that Westchester Power (Sustainable Westchester’s
division for Community Choice Aggregation [CCA]) is discontinuing CCA for all its
participating municipalities, effective 11/30/25 with the end of the present CCA
contract. This is due to increased outreach and education requirements recently
mandated by NY State that WP states are beyond its abilities.
[Jon provided us with the PSC Order that effectuated it. A brief review found it was
made effective a year ago, but hit now because of the impending end of the most
recent CCA power contract, and the inability in the interim of Westchester Power (and
CCAs further upstate) to find ways to deal with the Order's new rules. Many of them
appear to stem from billing problems and other customer complaints. Other issues
related to erroneous enrollments and/or failure to promptly de-enroll customers that
wanted to quit CCA.]
- EV/EVSE/RD
The contract with PISO (a/k/a Plug-In Stations Online) to install 18 EV charge ports at
the train station is expected to be signed later this month. Permitting and other filings
will start soon with a goal of completing the facility by spring.
The Renewable Diesel (RD) pilot test for 3 Village diesel vehicles has run two months
without a problem. At wholesale, RD is presently ~6% cheaper than standard diesel,
due to both market conditions and re-instatement of a federal Clean Fuels incentive
that applies to most biofuels. Mayor Pugh informed us that 2 more vehicles were
added to the test, which should be finished in January. Last month, Westchester
County Airport completed its 4-season test and has now switched all 64 of its diesel
service vehicles to RD. For recent media coverage, Scroll down to “Communications”.
- Solar Projects/Issues
1

Train station canopies: No new issues to report. Completion of commissioning (by
NovaSource) is expected before year’s end, with startup shortly thereafter. Paperwork
for the acquisition of the POWIN battery system by FlexGen is nearly complete.
DPW solar canopy: Due to its inability to provide required paperwork, the winning
contractor in September’s bid was dismissed on 10/10/25. About $9K of the NY-SUN
incentive (out of ~$48K) was lost in October due to the bidder’s failure. The job will
now be re-bid. The goal is to secure a capable bidder that will move quickly to lock in
the remaining $39K before more of it is lost. The potential for adding a battery to the
project was briefly discussed. However, the site is in Cortlandt which has a battery
moratorium. Mayor Pugh said it may end (or be renewed) at the end of this year.
- Heat Pumps
Harmon firehouse rooftop HPs: on hold until after Harmon’s roof is replaced.
Washington firehouse garage HPs: on hold until after Harmon’s solar rooftop gets
done.
Heat Pump Water Heater (HPWH) project experience: Lindsay reported on
replacing his 23-year old indirect-fired water heater with a HPWH. Doing so provided
insights on the viability of a campaign to replace others’ water heaters (esp. electric
resistance units) before the 30% federal tax credit (up to $2K) is lost on 12/31/25.
Via multiple bids and a State discount program for LMI households, he cut his total
(before tax credit) cost to ~$3.6K. Overall, he found the effort exceeded the value
secured. Time was wasted on the program and its management. Much of the discount
was consumed by jacked-up contractor pricing and the program manager’s fee. Other
issues were also irritating (e.g., an attempt to charge a $350 inspection fee). He
concluded residential HPWHs are best promoted in new homes or with other major
HVAC upgrades. He felt our resources would be better spent on other pursuits.
Mayor Pugh advised that the program in question was being revised to address such
administrative barriers. Dan and Jon pointed out that building codes effective in 2026
for new construction (including residential) call for electrification of water heaters. Jon
agreed to summarize those code changes at our next meeting.
- Other Programs
Food Scrap Recycling: The new scrap shed arrived 10/13/25 but was damaged and
had construction defects. On 10/16/25, Bryan Healy stated “The company will be
building us a new shed and replacing the existing one (hopefully by Halloween)”.
Expanding the program will be delayed until the new shed is in place. [An acceptable
replacement shed arrived shortly after our meeting.]
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
As a potential new revenue source, we reviewed Village properties as possible sites
for a battery energy storage system (BESS). During a 10/8/25 zoom with Len and
Bryan Healy, the concept of reserving 50% of the revenue for future projects was
2

accepted, but a site other than the Pumphouse Road facility was desired. The
Village’s property on Hessian Hills Road was examined, but the nearest distribution
power line has a hosting capacity <300 kW and is not worth developing.
We reviewed an 11/3/25 leasing proposal to locate a ~5 MW system atop half of the
dirt plot at the rear of the Municipal Place facility. It would include a ~600-foot power
line below Municipal Place road to connect to a large Con Ed feeder beneath Maple
Street The proposal offered $172K/yr + 2% escalator in leasing rent. After an
extensive discussion that included how to determine and portray possible GHG
reductions from batteries, the committee suggested Village staff review the proposal
pursuant to seeking offers from other BESS developers for the same site.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
In October, articles on the RD pilot test appeared in the Mid-Hudson News, River
Journal Online, 2 Village newsletters, and 2 climate-related newsletters (NY League of
Conservation Voters and The Cooldown).
- New Business / Other Issues
None.
The date for our next zoom meeting was set for Sunday, Dec. 7, 2025 at 10:00 AM.
To avoid the holidays, we will then take our usual winter recess. Our following
meeting would be on Sunday, Jan. 18, 2026.

3

