Police Advisory Committee Minutes
January 15, 2026
Attendance: Carolyn Whiting, Ian Murtaugh, Miles Kafka, Teri Lukin, John
Nikitopoulos, Trustee Maria Slippen
Resident Ed Reily
1. Latino outreach
• Chief Nikitopoulos will discuss with manager Healy the possibility of a
soccer game day for our Latino community.
a) Free ice cream truck
2. Youth outreach
• The committee discussed a proposed art contest to reach our youth
with winners displaying at National Night Out.
a) Chief Nikitopoulos reported that the Village manager denied the
request due to believing it is not police related.
Carolyn Whiting suggested it is similar to pumpkin painting and
other community outreach that brings people in contact with
police in a friendly and non-police related manner to build
relationships.
• Carolyn Whiting asked the committee for ideas to reach our youth.
The committee did not have any ideas.
3. Raﬄe of a gift basket, free, no charge for raﬄe chances.
• Open to all community members.
• A similar raﬄe was done with donated goods at a Croton Police/ PAC
table at Fall Fest several years ago. It was popular.
• PAC will use PAC funds for the basket if donations cannot be secured.
• Basket to be raﬄed and given at National Night Out.
4. Letter / packet of information in Croton Caring Food boxes
• Oﬃcer Jandres wrote a rough draft of the letter and that letter was
updated by Teri Lukin.
a) Chief Nikitopoulos will ask Manager Healy for his opinion.

• Additional information about the Village police website page and PAC
page, listing some items on those pages along with directions for
translation on the website. Information about resources in the main
Village oﬃce along with the Police Department will also be available.
Informaiton also to be provided, sharing that the Village has a bilingual employee in the Village Main oﬃce and the Village court.
a) Trustee Slippen reported that the website will be redesigned in
the 2026-2027 budget year.
5. License Plate Readers, report from Detective Fielding
• The License Plate Reader cameras are Mobotix brand and data is
stored by Rekor.
• License Plate Reader information is stored at the County Real Time
Crime Center. RTC
• Croton PD must go through the RTC to access the cameras images.
• Detective Fielding works at the RTC one day per week. Working at
the RTC is required to participate.
• The data is only shared with local law enforcement who participate in
the program and with other jurisdictions with a judicial warrant. Data
is not available to ICE or other agencies without a judicial warrant
and only information requested with that warrant can be shared.
• Cameras capture overview photos along with the license plate image.
• Overview camera information is only stored for 10 days unless a
police department requests that information and it is shared with the
department within the 10-day time frame.
• License plate numbers are stored for approximately 3 years.
• The information is not compiled to allow oﬃcers to analyze large
groups of people to narrow down behavior. An example would be
the police cannot check all cars that drive to a certain place each day
at a speciﬁc time and comparing their behavior to the rest of their
daily behavior or the behavior of other drivers. Information is
incident speciﬁc such as a crime happening at 12 pm and the

information surrounding that time is obtained to narrow down
possible suspects.
6. Red Light Cameras
• The Village manager asked for the PAC to discuss proposed locations
for 2 red light cameras within the village. Locations are: South bound
Route 9 exit ramp at the intersection with Croton Point Avenue and
Municipal Place and Riverside Ave intersection.
a) Trustee Slippen and Carolyn Whiting discussed the excessively
long-time drivers must wait for a green light at the Croton Point
light for southbound Route 9 exiting traﬃc.
• The PAC has not previously discussed the use of red-light cameras
and is aware that a vocal group of residents are opposed to any
government cameras within the village.
• Chief Nikitopoulos will discuss camera locations with the Village
manager.
• The PAC will write a memo to the Board requesting that signage be
placed near the camera locations warning drivers of their use.
7. Body cameras
• The department is still waiting for Motorola to supply a sample/ test
camera.
• Another camera company has oﬀered a sample camera, and the
department will test this camera for one month.
8. School bus cameras
• Although out of Croton PD purview and under the school board
purview, the PAC discussed Facebook posts by a vocal group of
residents opposed to school bus cameras. While it is not a Village
decision, school bus camera angst adds to the angst over Village red
light cameras and license plate readers.
9. March discussion of all cameras.
• The PAC March meeting will discuss government cameras in use
throughout the village and the possible need for an education /
outreach campaign to explain to residents what the Village cameras

do and do not do, what they capture, how data is stored and who can
access it.
• The PAC will discuss the use of red-light cameras and if the PAC has a
position on such cameras at the March meeting.
10.SROs
• SROs fall under the purview of the school board, and the Village
cannot host SROs in the school without the school asking for such.
• The Police department is keeping a log of time spent in the schools in
2026 to understand the cost to the Village taxpayer. The school does
not pay for this service. The school district is a larger tax base than
the Village by approximately 1,000 residents.
11.PAC community information project and oﬃcer proﬁles.
• Carolyn Whiting will send previously written article about homeless
and police interactions and an article about cannabis use to Amy
MacNamara for publication on the website.
• Ian Murtaugh wrote proﬁles about Oﬃcers Duran, Rooney, and
Twyman. Carolyn will ask Amy McNarmara to post those proﬁles.
• Ian Murtaugh will write proﬁles for Oﬃcers Tovar and Cunningham.
12.Chief reports
• Oﬃcer Jandres reading to children in schools. No update to report.
• Youth Cadet program. 15 teens have signed up for the Youth Cadet
program and the Chief hopes to have the program running by midFebruary.
a) Oﬃcers Ward and Rodriguez will visit the County Police to learn
about their program.
• Gun safety locks
a) Chief Nikitopoulos received 150 free gun safety locks. Detective
Fielding, not knowing the Chief applied for the locks also applied
for free gun safety locks and received 250.
b) The department has given away 25 gun safety locks. They are
available in the police department lobby.
• Neighboring PACs

a) The Chief reported that he has not had time to ask Westchester
Chiefs if they have PACs and for contact information.
• The Chief hopes to participate in the school’s bike to school event in
May.
• The Chief reported that drivers with a suspended license cannot drive
away from a traﬃc stop and that a licensed passenger takes over
after a ticket is issued. Carolyn Whiting asked that this be explained
in the blotter entries because it now reads as if the driver is issued a
ticket and then allowed to drive from the scene.
13.Memo to the Board requesting additional oﬃcers and a consultant.
• Chief Nikitopoulos explained the need for 3 additional oﬃcers as
needed to adjust patrol schedules to better align with most
departments in Westchester. Croton Patrol Oﬃcers work a rotating
backwards schedule, the worst for health. A steady tour is best for
the health, safety, and morale of the oﬃcers.
a) The Village has lost several oﬃcers in the recent past and it is
believed the schedule was a factor of the decision of oﬃcers to
leave Croton.
• A consultant is needed to best understand staﬃng level needs and
how the department can best function.
• Carolyn Whiting will update the draft memo and circulate it among
PAC members, PD, and Trustee liaisons. Once approved by members,
the memo will be sent to the Village Board.
• Is the labor-intensive accreditation process worth the manpower
needed to achieve accreditation? Is it taking away from important
police work? Chief Nikitopoulos will discuss it with the Board.
a) The department has ﬁnished writing the policy manual but still
needs to write the procedures manual and the accreditation
manual. The department members need to review each policy,
procedure and accreditation rule and sign oﬀ on them. This is
done while working at approximately 5 per week. It is a labor
intensive and years long process.

14.National Police Week, May 15-21, 2026.
• The PAC will send a memo to the Board requesting the board
recognize National Police Week.
a) The Department will create a ﬂag with their patch graphic, and the
PAC requests the ﬂag ﬂy at the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal
Building for National Police Week.
b) The Chief reported that many area departments incorporate the
thin blue line on their patch and other department items. The
committee agreed that a thin blue line cannot be a part of the
Croton PD ﬂag. A blue background would be acceptable.
c) A ﬂag raising ceremony should be held with children, boy scouts,
girl scouts, possibly school chorus etc. invited to participate.
d) Plant ﬂowers, possibly blue, in honor of Police week.
e) Cake / light refreshments or a light (sandwiches) lunch should be
provided for oﬃcers and ceremony attendees.
f) Any medals given to oﬃcers should be formally mentioned and
recognized at Village Board meetings. Post photos and
information of awards on Village social media along with photos
and an article in Gazette. Awards will not necessarily be given at
the Board meeting, but oﬃcers may be present when their award
is discussed if the oﬃcer wishes.
g) Additional ideas welcomed.
15.Budget
• The PAC is in favor of the proposed PAC budget and Carolyn will
submit the budget to the Village Board.
16.English as a Second Language instruction
• The PAC suggests the Village host a class in the community room
utilizing volunteer instructors. A PAC member has a family member
who has volunteered to teach. Additional instructors are needed.
Speaking Spanish is not necessary to teach but speciﬁc certiﬁcation is
needed for teaching. The ability to speak English is vital to members

new to speaking English and their ability to thrive in their new
country.
a) Chief Nikitopoulos will speak with Manager Healy about the
Village working with or without PAC to host ESL classes.
b) The PAC will write a memo to the Board if approved by manager
Healy.
17.Peekskill incident and Croton’s training
• The PAC did not discuss another Police department’s and PAC’s
jurisdiction’s incident but did discuss Croton’s training.
a) Croton has a full training session for bias recognition yearly, along
with a refresher at ﬁrearms training 2 times per year.
b) Croton has full training for de-escalation yearly, along with a
refresher at ﬁrearms training 2 times per year.
c) Croton PD has a certiﬁed defensive tactics training oﬃcer who has
given instruction to Croton oﬃcers. This will help when a suspect
resists arrest, with the goal of reducing injuries to the suspect and
the oﬃcers. Chief Nikitopoulos has plans to send another oﬃcer
for defensive tactics training oﬃcer certiﬁcation soon.
d) Chief Nikitopoulos reported that Ossining Police Department
requires all oﬃcers to be certiﬁed in Jujitsu. This is not something
Chief Nikitopoulos wishes to pursue for his department at this
time.
18.Epi pens
• Teri Lukin shared a news article with Chief Nikitopoulos which
discussed that some police departments keep epi pens on hand to
administer when needed.
a) Chief Nikitopoulos asked if the pen is administered, could it cause
harm. He explained that they carry Narcan because it cannot
cause harm.
b) Teri Lukin, who has extensive professional medical training and
experience, explained that the epinephrine in epi pens, can be
harmful to people who are allergic to epinephrine.

19.Book lending library.
• Carolyn Whiting suggested that the PAC purchase approximately 10
books per year to build a lending library for police oﬃcers. Books
would be non-ﬁction police topic related. The Chief, PBA, and PAC
would choose the books. Such a collection would be cost prohibitive
for each oﬃcer to own but a lending library on topics of interest to
law enforcement would give them an opportunity to learn about
topics they might not otherwise have.
• Chief Nikitopoulos will discuss this proposal with PBA President
Oﬃcer Jeremy Davis.
• If the PBA approves, Carolyn Whiting will add $250-$300 to the PAC
budget to purchase the ﬁrst approximately 8-10 books.
20.Meeting with Gustavo
• The PAC will arrange another meeting with our Latino community
liaison when we have answers to questions and subjects discussed at
the January 8, 2026, meeting.
21.Resident Ed Reily
• Resident Ed Reily attended the meeting and spoke about the inﬂux of
immigrants in the past 4 years and the need for them to gain legal
status.
• Mr. Reily suggested that the PAC stress to immigrants the process to
become legal residents.
• Carolyn Whiting advised that this is beyond the purview of the PAC as
that is a federal immigration requirement issue and the PAC is a
village appointed committee with no connection to federal
immigration policies.
22.Meeting adjourned at 8:50

