Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, October 8, 2025, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
The following officials were present:
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua Subin
Deputy Village Treasurer Rachel Sibrizzi

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nicholson
Trustee Politi – arrived at 7:13pm
Trustee Slippen

1. Mayor Pugh called the regular meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 26002367-26002603. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 Vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the
time of the vote).
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund
Trust Fund

$119,609.14
$5,035.98
$1,491.36
$300,408.65
$2,670.63

3. PUBLIC HEARINGS:
A motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 13 of
2025 to create a rental registry for landlords was made by Trustee Simon.
Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote.
(Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote).
Village Manager Healy advised that in 2021 our Housing Task Force
recommended creating a rental registry, this is not a new concept and many
communities in our area have adopted this as well. Village Manager Healy
stated that while multi-family properties, which are defined as three or more
units, are inspected on a regular basis, two family rental units that are not
owner occupied are not currently inspected. Village Manager Healy went on to
explain that these inspections are to make sure that these units have proper
ingress and egress as well as working smoke and carbon monoxide detectors
and that they meet minimum standards for light and ventilation.

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 2

There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the
time of the vote).
Resolution #237-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote).
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to create a rental registry for
landlords to protect the health and welfare of its residents who rent; and
WHEREAS, this recommendation arose from the Housing Task Force report submitted
to the Village Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2025 has been drafted for such
purposes; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on October 8, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 13 of 2025 to amend Chapter 186, Rental Housing, in the
Village Code to create a rental registry for landlords, which upon adoption becomes
Local Law No. 16 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Mayor Pugh stated that while there is verification of these structures when a
Certificate of Occupancy is issued, this Law is to make sure that changes have not
been made to any of these structures. Mayor Pugh asked if an inspection comes back
and the property is found unsafe and not habitable, what is the tenant to do.
Village Manager Healy stated that if a unit is found not habitable the tenant would
have to vacate.
A motion to open a Public Hearing on Local Law Introductory No. 15 of
2025 to amend Chapter 50, Residency Requirements of the Village Code
to reflect state law was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi was not
present at the time of the vote).

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 3

There being no comments to come before the Board, a motion to close the
Public Hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nicholson and approved with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the
time of the vote).
Resolution #238-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 4-0 vote. (Trustee Politi was not present at the time of the vote).
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson desires to update the residency
requirements in Chapter 50 of the Village Code in accordance with state law; and
WHEREAS, Local Law Introductory No. 15 of 2025 has been drafted for such
purposes; and
WHEREAS, a Public Hearing was opened and closed on October 8, 2025,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts
Local Law Introductory No. 15 of 2025 to amend Chapter 50, Residency
Requirements, in the Village Code in accordance with state law, which upon adoption
becomes Local Law No. 17 of 2025.
DISCUSSION:
Trustee Simon thanked Senator Harckham and Assemblywoman Levenberg for
helping the Village get this legislation passed.
4. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None.
5. PUBLIC COMMENTS - AGENDA ITEMS
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that it is
understandable, in light of things that have happened in the past with respect
to overcrowding, to want to inspect housing units, but he believes the Rental
Registry could be seen as another way to garnish more fees from the
community. Mr. Riely addressed the proposed "Rifle Jack" Peterson memorial
sign and explained that since the Village owns a piece of the cemetery
property, they will need permission from the Village.
6. CONSENT AGENDA:

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 4

On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Politi the Board
approved the Consent Agenda. Motion was approved with a 5-0 Vote.
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Letter from Westchester County announcing the induction of Vic Conte
into the Westchester County Senior Hall of Fame for his designation into
the Senior Hall Fame.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/91de4dbefdadb9795bc50463a4f61fa3e2e2511a.pdf
2. Letter from Vic Conte, President of the Croton-on-Hudson Lions Club,
requesting permission to sell Christmas trees on South Riverside Avenue
for an annual fundraiser.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/13585b68a27fe01012d5d6b66200041505ecbfa3.pdf
3. Letter from NYS Department of State requesting a consistency review
for new pavement markings along state highways in the Village of
Croton-on-Hudson.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/eff521bf5f0a7a8064126b25b160f2db463be6be.pdf
4. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy regarding the proposed John
"Rifle Jack" Peterson monument.
Village Manager Healy explained that we do not own land in the
Cemetery, just the right-of-way, the Code allows for the Village Engineer
to issue permits for improvements within the street lines and the Village
Engineer will be able to issue the permit for sign.
RESOLUTION
On motion by Trustee Nicholson and seconded by Trustee Simon the
Board of Trustees requested that the “Riffle Jack” memorial be referred
to the Village Historian and Recreation Advisory Committee for their
comment. Motion was approved with a 5-0 vote.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/93724e4e9699fc6cd5cc0c47af480a90245482fe.pdf

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 5

5. Memo from Village Manager Bryan Healy regarding a bench donation for
Cleveland Drive in honor of Tony Farano.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202510/895ff8dbc3b24773406c7fba92c04fcd61178381.pdf
b. RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #239-2025 – Justice Court Grant
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the State of New York Unified Court System is soliciting applications.
from local governments under the Justice Court Assistance Program (JCAP) to assist
local Justice Courts with needed equipment, automation, furniture, supplies and
training; and
WHEREAS, the funding available under the JCAP would facilitate local efforts in
upgrading the security of the court clerk’s office,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of the Village of Crotonon-Hudson authorizes the Croton-on-Hudson Village Court to apply for a JCAP grant
in the 2025-2026 grant cycle up to $30,000.
c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on September
24, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nicholson and approved with a 5-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on September
24, 2025, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee and approved with a 5-0 vote.
7. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #240-2025

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 6

On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, flooding issues along Brook Street have existed for many years in the
Village; and
WHEREAS, in 2023, the Village Board of Trustees adopted Resolution 142-2023 to
accept a proposal from D&B Engineers to conduct an updated drainage study along
the Brook Street drainage basin; and
WHEREAS, the study has been completed and a preferred alternate has been selected
to improve drainage along Brook Street and Terrace Place; and
WHEREAS, the Village has applied for funding for this project from Westchester
County; and
WHEREAS, on September 10, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees declared itself Lead
Agency for SEQRA purposes; and
WHEREAS, on September 24, 2025, the Village Board of Trustees undertook the
process and review described in detail in Parts 2 and 3 of the Short EAF
“Determination of Significance” attached hereto; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board has received a recommendation of consistency from the
Waterfront Advisory Committee with the Village’s Local Waterfront Revitalization
Program; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board must make its own determination of consistency with
the LWRP policy standards and conditions; and
WHEREAS, on September 24, 2025, the Village Board reviewed the LWRP policy
standards and conditions,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED as follows:
The Village Board of Trustees makes the following findings regarding the applicability
of the LWRP policies and the consistency of the Proposed Action with those policies
and conditions of the LWRP:
Policy 1: Restore, revitalize, and redevelop deteriorated and underutilized waterfront
areas for commercial, industrial, cultural, recreational and other compatible uses.

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 7

Policy 7E: Runoff from public and private parking lots and from storm sewer
overflows shall be effectively managed so as to prevent oil, grease, and other
contaminants from polluting surface and ground water and impact to the significant
fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 7F: Construction activity of any kind must not cause a measurable increase
in erosion or flooding at the site of such activity, or impact other locations.
Construction activity in the Croton River and Hudson River spawning areas shall be
timed so that spawning of anadromous fish species and shellfish will not be adversely
affected.
Policy 7G: Construction activity of any kind must not cause significant degradation
of water quality or impact identified significant fish and wildlife habitats.
Policy 12: Activities or development in the coastal area will be undertaken so as to
minimize damage to natural resources and property from flooding and erosion by
protecting natural protective features including beaches, dunes, barrier islands and
bluffs.
Policy 13: The construction or reconstruction of erosion protection structures shall
be undertaken only if they have a reasonable probability of controlling erosion for at
least thirty years as demonstrated in design and construction standards and/or
assured maintenance or replacement programs.
Policy 14: Activities and development, including the construction or reconstruction
of erosion protection structures, shall be undertaken so that there will be no
measurable increase in erosion or flooding at the site of such activities or
development, or at other locations.
Policy 30: Ensuring that municipal, industrial, and commercial discharges of
pollutants into coastal waters conform to state and national water quality standards.
Policy 33: Implementing Best Management Practices to control stormwater runoff
and combined sewer overflows.
Policy 33A: The flow of stormwater discharge shall be controlled to limit the flow of
pollutants from street and parking areas, etc. directly into the river and water bodies.
Policy 2 (Section IV) – Address drainage systems that lead to erosion on
steep slopes. The objective of this project is to promote activities that will control
soil erosion and sedimentation caused by stormwater runoff. These issues are most
significant along the steep banks of the Croton River Gorge, and

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 8

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the remaining policies and conditions of the LWRP
were found not to be applicable; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that based upon the above, the Village Board of Trustees
confirms its determination that the Proposed Action, the Brook Street Drainage
Improvements Project, complies with the policy standards and conditions set forth in
the Village’s LWRP; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby issues and
adopts the EAF Parts 2 and 3 Determination of Significance attached hereto and
adopts a Negative Declaration in connection with this action.
Resolution #241-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Department of Public Works has installed stormwater drainage at the
end of Loconto Street to reduce flooding and washout conditions that occur during
heavy rainfalls; and
WHEREAS, the drainage system extends onto the property of 8 Loconto Street; and
WHEREAS, a utility easement agreement has been drafted to provide access for
maintenance and repair of the system when necessary,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to execute the utility easement agreement with the owner of 8
Loconto Street to allow access for maintenance and repair of the stormwater drainage
system.
Resolution #242-2025
On motion of TRUSTEE NICHOLSON, seconded by TRUSTEE SIMON, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 5-0 vote.
WHEREAS, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson is undertaking the Harmon Firehouse
Addition project located at 30 Wayne Street; and

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 9

WHEREAS, the Village entered into a contract with Tierney & Courtney Overhead Door
Sales Co., Inc., to furnish the garage doors for the project under Bid No. 07-2025;
and
WHEREAS, an additional scope of work, a second row of windows in each door, was
added to the bid, necessitating a change order; and
WHEREAS, the total cost of the additional work outlined in Change Order No. 1 totals
$3,500; and
WHEREAS, the Superintendent of Public Works has reviewed the proposed change
order and has determined that the additional work is necessary for the successful
completion of the project,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
authorizes the Village Manager to approve Change Order No. 1 with Tierney &
Courtney Overhead Door Sales Co., Inc., for the Harmon Firehouse Addition project
in the total amount of $3,500; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that funding for such work is available in account
H4540.2102.23445.
8. PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, addressed the boycott of
CVS with respect to abortion drugs, and objected to the flying of a trans-gender
flag in the Village.
9. REPORTS:
Trustee Politi advised that a Hispanic Heritage celebration will be held at the
Library this weekend and addressed comments made by Mr. Riely.
Trustee Simon advised that Octoberfest and Rev Fest 250 were well attended,
on September 28th the Rotary held their annual Car Show; on September 30th
he had the honor of bagging groceries at Shoprite along with Village Manager
Healy to help raise funds for Croton Caring; the Lorraine Hansberry Coalition
held special events this past weekend, on October 5th the Sustainability
Committee met and talked about the train station solar array, the diesel pilot
program as well as an update on the Solarize Westchester Campaign, Croton’s
Association of Businesses is now official and they look forward to getting more
local businesses to join, the Planning Board met last night and talked about

Village Board of Trustees
October 8, 2025
Page 10

amendments to the site plan at 25 South Riverside for ADA access and ADU
Recreational fees.
Joshua Subin addressed a question regarding the Rental Registry and referred
everyone to 186-5 A1 of the Village Code where it lists the exemptions.
Mayor Pugh referred to some comments made this evening and stated that he
is extremely concerned with demonizing certain people in our community.
Mayor Pugh advised that the diesel pilot program is about improving air quality
and our climate and it is being funded out of our Sustainability Fund, had the
opportunity to attend one of the Lorraine Hansberry presentations this
weekend and commended the Fire Department on a wonderful Fire Fair.
Village Manager Healy stated that he is pleased to welcome our new Village
Engineer, Vincent Salanitro, our Department of Public Works has completed
their annual resurfacing project; Scenic Drive West, Lower North Highland,
Cleveland between Benedict and Piney Point Avenue and Penfield between
Benedict and Oneida have been paved and thanked everyone for their
cooperation, the Village received a grant from Worker’s Compensation in the
amount of $3,400 for its Confined Spaces Training, Superintendent of Public
Works Frank Balbi advised that the current Yield Sign on Morningside will be
converted to a Stop Sign on October 14th , Village offices will be closed Monday
in honor of Columbus Day, and reminded everyone to be on the lookout for
messages and updates with respect to possible rain storms this weekend.
There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close the
meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nicholson
and approved with a 5-0 vote. Meeting adjourned at 7:46pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

