Roll Call : J. Karpoff (487), C. Colombo (133), J. Delaney (350), J. Gilbert (548), J. Streany (275),
D. Vlad (318), T. Kaplan (501), D. Dunn (342), J. Munson (221), P. Dinkler (150), C. Caterino (539)
EXCUSED: W. Skiba, B. Powers (474), C. Sarcone (259)
Department Members: J. Ferguson (164), J. Dymes (623), R. Cusano (141)
Others in Attendance: B. Pugh (Mayor), B. Healy (Village Manager), L. Simon (Deputy Mayor)
Meeting Called to Order with the Pledge of Allegiance and a Moment of Silence for Deceased
Members by P. Dinkler at 19:04
Special Orders of Business / Reports:
Mayor Pugh –
1) I would like to thank you all for all that you do
2) I would like to let you all know that in November they will be having the housing Lottery for
the Apartments at 25 S. Riverside Ave to give anyone who wants to go for it the option.
L.Simon- Just Ditto the Mayor
B. Healy 1) DPW will be NO PARKING Signs on Benedict Blvd going up across the street from Harmon by
next Monday.
2) We had a meeting with Washington Engine about having a hydrant next to their ramp and
there looking at that for the future but they want to put the piping in not while there doing the
parking lot work.
3) The Construction for the EMS Building @ the back of Harmon Firehouse is moving along Well
4) The Village Board will be honoring the top Responders at the Board meeting.
5) The Department website is being worked on with J. Munson they have to change the .org
to .gov per state.
P. Dinkler (2081) - Along with what B. Healy said about the top Responders I have a gift card for
them that I was going to give them which I was going to do at the inspection but not all of them
were there so I held off till tonight. I will read them all off and then give them to the company
reps to give them.
Joe Streany with 281, Xan Cohen with 225, Bill Gallagher with 209, John Gilbert with 207, John
Munson with 197, Joe Dymes with 180, Lyle Scalzo with 177, Adrian Cardenas with 174, Dave
Altamuara with 150 & Jim Ferguson with 149
Approval of August & Septembers Meetings Minutes:
Motion J. Munson/ 2nd J. Streany - Carried

Bills and Communications:
1) Received Washington Engines updated slate of officers for 2026 which was requested by
the investigation committee.
2) Washington received a letter from Michael Feminella resigning from the position of
warden Effective 12/31/25 for the second year of his term.
3) Washington received a letter from Ryan Howles Requesting to go from active to social
membership due to moving out of state. Motion made to accept by J. Streany/ 2nd by J.
Gilbert - Carried
4) Received a by-law amendment from Washington that was one from back in February
and was recommended to resubmit after the the committee met. P. Dinkler said we will
hold it until unfinished business.
5) Received a letter from Fire Patrol #1 requesting permission to hold their annual
breakfast with santa fundraiser to be held on Sunday December 14th from 9am till Noon.
Motion made to approve pending village approval by J. Streany/2nd J. Gilbert - Carried (it
was sent to B. Healy for village approval)
6) Received a letter from Fire Patrol #1 stating that Eric Johnson was mistakenly listed as
the Fire Patrol Nominee for 1st Lt. This is to let us know that the actual nominee is Josh
Karpoff.
7) Received a letter from Hook & Ladder for the following membership changes:
A) School leave request which were granted by the company for the following: Daniel
Markic, Christian Gaona & Charlotte Gilbert. Motion made by D. Vlad/2nd J. Gilbert Carried (copies included)
B) Following members were dropped from the roles due to inactivity and failure to
respond to company inquiry: Eneo Decka, Benjamin Leuig, Jack Becker, Owen
Mintzer, Eric
Min, Thomas Kelley, Alden Hou, Jack Fahey, Giorgio Giorcelli & Stefano. Giorcelli Motion made
to accept by J. Munson/2nd J. Gilbert - Carried
8) Received a letter from the Fasny Firefighter Museum regarding Santa's sack of toys a
Christmas raffle tickets. There are 5 tickets @ $5 each Motion made for the Council to take the
tickets. Motion by J. Streany/2nd J. Gilbert - Carried, also on a side note J. Streany said Art Roosa
Jr is on the waiting list to go up there so we will have one of our own up there at some point.
(letter and tickets given to P. Dinkler)
9) P. Dinkler has 2 bills to bring up.
A) From inspection for $43.45 to Chris Caterino for Tablecloths – Motion made by D.
Vlad/2nd J. Streany - Carried

B) Reimbursements to himself for $300 for the gift cards for top responders – Motion
made by D. Vlad/2nd J. Streany - Carried
10) There was a donation of $100 that was sent to the Department but was sent to Fire
Patrol from a family on Batten Rd – Motion to accept the donation made by T. Kaplan/2nd J.
Munson - Carried
Reports of the Chiefs:
P. Dinkler (2081) I also want to thank everyone for coming out and getting things covered and
the support. I want to thank Chris for handling the inspection it was a good turnout and I want
to thank Tommy for all the hard work for fire fair that went well and we had a nice turnout for
that as well and for all the other stuff that goes with it such as the schools etc.

C. Colombo (2082) I just want to thank everyone for doing what they do. This is to J. Munson
where do we stand with the house sirens? Are we waiting on parts or anything? J. Munson
replied that we voted on it a while ago to not use them and being that most of our responding
members live out of town, it's not worth it. The house side it seems like the EMS building and
the work at Washington are both going very well. The ladder company has a water leak behind
the truck. It appears that it's the same spot that leaks every year.
C.Caterino (2083) Thank you everybody for coming around. It's normally this time of the year,
like early fall we get busy with stuff. Kinda weird month with the holidays coming up, we should
check in on each other. We do have new member training coming up so if you have members
that need it lets get them into it.
Reports of Committees:
Ladder 44 New truck – No Report
Engine 120 New truck – No Report
Engine 119 New truck – No Report
Mini Attack 33 (UTV): No Report
By-Law's: J. Streany said essentially the stuff we worked on previously me, Doc and Brian met
and thought it would be a good idea to resubmit with the changes and modifications and get
copies out to the companies and council so it can be agreed on by the companies. Said Bylaws
is 7.1.5 which talks about the different classes of membership. There are 7 classes, and it has

been put into the list form so it's easier to read and understand. This is so we hope that we can
vote on it at the next council meeting. P. Dinkler asked is there any questions for joe and did all
companies get copies. J. Streany asked if we could start including all the company secretaries
on the Minutes. (Copy of By-Law in question Included here)
Investigative Committee: J. Karpoff Gave in a hard copy of his report. (Also included a
scanned copy of it here) Josh read his report off. The committee met yesterday, Oct 27th, and
we made it into a spreadsheet. Everyone that was submitted except for 3 had no issues at all.
Read off all the 2026 slate of officers. After reviewing the department records for each nominee,
we have found that the following members are qualified to run for their nominated office(s):
Chief of Department: Chris Colombo Sr
1st Assistant Chief: Chris Caterino
2nd Assistant Chief: Joe Streany
Chemical Eng 2nd Lt: Don Holder
Chemical Eng E118 Engineer: Joe Dyrnes
Washington Eng Capt.: Matt Mallory
Washington Eng 1st Lt: Bill Gallagher
Washington Eng 2nd Lt: Frank Streany
Washington Eng E 119 Engineer: John Nohai
Washington Eng T l 0 Engineer: Bill Gallagher
Washington Eng U14 Engineer: Frank Pusatere
Harmon Eng Capt.: John Delaney
Harmon Eng 1st Lt: Bill Vlad, Sr
Harmon Eng E120 Engineer: Brian Powers
Columbia H&L Capt.: Tom Kaplan
Columbia H&L 1st Lt: Alex Gmoser
Columbia H&L TL44 Engineer: Rocco Cusano
Fire Patrol Capt.: Gregg Tucci
Fire Patrol 1st Lt: Josh Karpoff
Fire Patrol R l8 Engineer: Senator
Committee recommends we get council approval for the Slate
Motion made by J. Gilbert / 2nd J. Streany to accept slate as read - Carried
The following nominees had one or more issues with their qualifications:
1) Chemical Eng Capt.: John Gilbert - Missing Class #2, requesting approval of substitution
course - Lt. Gilbert currently does not have a second class from the list in Bylaw

3.4.C. Per the note in 3.4.C any substitutions must be approved by the Fire Council.
Due to a lack of offerings of the seven classes in the list of 3 .4.C, none of which
have been offered at the Westchester County DES Fire Training Center in 2025, Lt.
Gilbert is requesting the substitution of a UTV operator course offered by the NYS at
Camp Smith this year that he successfully completed. The committee recommends
that this substitution be accepted for 2026, with the requirement that he should

complete one or more of the classes on the list as soon as possible and before
running for Captain again for 2027 or for higher office. Motion Made by J. Delaney/
2nd J. Munson - Carried
2) Chemical Eng 1st Lt: Dave Altamura - Missing CFD bailout from 2024, requesting
approval of FDNY course. Capt. Dave Altarnura did not attend any of the department's
2024 bailout class offerings, nor did he submit other documentation demonstrating
proficiency in 2024, as required by Bylaw 7 .15. Capt. Altarnura is currently employed by
the Fire Department of the City of New York, which also requires annual demonstration
of bailout proficiency, but is un\i illing to pro ide this documentation to Capt. Altarnura to
submit to the CFD. Capt. Altarnura is requesting his continued active firefighter status
and employment. The Committee recommends that this substitution be accepted for
2026, but that it be formally approved by the Fire Council on a year-by-year basis. The
Council must also be aware that NYS PESH might not consider this as satisfying
Requirments of NYS law, due to a lack of physical documentation by the FDNY. Motion
made by J. Munson/ 2nd J. Delaney - Carried
3) Justin Cusano, nominated for Columbia Hook & Ladder Co, No 1's 2nd Lieutenant;
FF Justin Cusano does not currently meet several of the requirements of Bylaws Article
3.3. He does not have a current CPR/ 1st Aid training on record with the Department. He
has not completed department bailout training for several years. He does not have
certificates of completion of NIMS ICS-200, Fire Officer 1 or any of the classes in the list
of classes in Bylaw Article 3.3.D. Nor is there any record of him having completed a CFD
in-house Fire Officer 1 course. He has submitted a certificate from the US Marine Corps
Lance Corporals Leadership and Ethics Seminar, dated November 18, 2021, as a
substitution for the B) la\v requirement that he complete Fire Officer 1. He does not
offer documentation for completion of substitute course for Bylaws Article 3 .3 .C 1-7.
The bylaws require the completion of NIMS ICS-200 and state that no substitution may
be accepted for this course. The committee thanks FF Justin Cusano for his honorable
military service to the defense of the United States of America. As such, the committee
cannot at this time recommend that FF Justin Cusano be considered qualified to run for
the position of 2nd Lieutenant. The committee suggests that FF Justin Cusano complete
a NYS Fire Officer 1 class, NIMS ICS-200, a course from the list in the bylaws, as well
as takes the upcoming CPR/1st Aid course being offered by the department and an
upcoming original bailout class with the department. If FF Cusano completes these
requirements during 2026 and the position is vacant, Columbia H&L may hold a special
election to elect him to this position. In the meantime, he is encouraged to continue to
provide leadership in his company in the informal capacity of a senior firefighter. There
was a discussion regarding this and even after that there was a Motion of not to accept
FF. Cusano not to be able to run at this time due to not having the qualifications at this
time by J.Munson/ 2nd J.Streany - Carried ( 6 In favor of the motion, 2 Against and the 3
abstained)
This concludes with the recommendations of the committee. Attached to this report, please find
a PDF of the spreadsheet we used to document each nominee's qualifications as required by

the Department Bylaws. This spreadsheet was created by Committee chair Josh Karpoff, using
data available from the Department's ESO and IAR databases, as well as NYS OFPC training
records kept by NYS DHSES LMS database.
Respectfully submitted to the Fire Council for the October 2025 regular meeting, as per
Bylaws Article 2.2, --Deputy Chief Josh Karpoff, committee chair (Scanned Copy of full Report
included)
Big Bucks: No Report
Training: No Report
Inspection: No Report
Parade Committee: No Report
Losap Committee: No Report
Fire Prevention Committee: I want to thank everyone who came out to help with all the fire
prevention stuff including Fire Fair and there will be a thank you letter sent to Shoprite for all
their support and i will have a full report at the next meeting.
Unfinished Business: D. Vlad asked where we stand with the fundraising thing with Adam and
P. Dinkler said we will have to just check with Adam where we are. P. Dinkler said he believes
everything is good with the 503c thing, so we should hopefully be able to move foward with the
fundraising very soon.

The letter to the 1 member that was in violation was brought up J. Streany said the letter was
sent out which said they had to be here in Sept or Oct meeting and here we are and there not
here. P. Dinkler said there were other issues of a verbal conversation with the chiefs, and they
are handling it. P. Dinkler said he will make sure they are at the next meeting to answer the
questions regarding the missed points.
Motion made to let the chiefs handle it and have her at the next Council Meeting (November)
By D. Vlad/ 2nd J. Karpoff - Carried
New Business:
J. Munson as of the end of the year i will not be handling Fleet, Radio's or pagers.

J. Streany on a note for new business there was a posted Defensive driving thing that had 2
different postings for the same day. P. Dinkler said as far as I'm aware it was to see about

the interest in hosting one. It's not a required or mandatory class its if you want to take it or
not
Treasurer’s Report: The Department current amount in the account is $19,691.15 Motion
made to accept the report by J. Streany/ 2nd J. Delaney
Motion to Adjourn by. D.Vlad /2nd by. J. Karpoff - CARRIED Meeting Adjourned @ 20:15
Draft Minutes Respectfully Submitted by John E Delaney Jr, Secretary on 11/9/25.

