Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson, NY,
held on Wednesday, January 21, 2026, in the Georgianna Grant Meeting Room at the
Stanley Kellerhouse Municipal Building, Van Wyck Street, Croton-on-Hudson, NY
10520.
Mayor Pugh
Village Manager Bryan Healy
Village Attorney Joshua Subin
Village Treasurer Genette Toone

Trustee Simon
Trustee Nachtaler

The following Officials were absent:
Trustee Slippen

Trustee Nicholson

1. Mayor Pugh called the regular meeting to order at 7:00pm and led everyone
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. APPROVAL OF VOUCHERS
Trustee Simon made a motion to approve the following Fiscal Year Vouchers,
Claims numbered 26004083-26004282. The Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nachtaler and approved with a 3-0 Vote.
General Fund
Water Fund
Sewer Fund
Capital Fund

$101,884.71
$23,653.40
$25,724.85
$17,592.40

3. Presentation of the Key to the Village to former Zoning Board of Appeals Chair
Christine Wagner (to view the entire presentation you may log onto the
following: https://play.champds.com/crotononhudsonny/event/1123 (Section 22.02.02).
4. Motion to open a Public Hearing on the renewal of the cable franchise
agreement with Cablevision of Wappingers Falls, Inc. to operate a cable system
in the Village of Croton-on-Hudson was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was
seconded by Trustee Nachtaler and approved with a 3-0 vote.
Village Manager Healy stated that as part of this new agreement, the Village
will be receiving “PEG Grant” funds, Cablevision will be paying the Village fifty
cents per subscriber per quarter and these funds will be used to improve
equipment that is used for broadcasting meetings and upgrading the
technology at Village Hall. Village Manager Healy advised that as part of the
renewal process, our Special Counsel undertook an audit of the Franchise Fees
that are paid to the Village and they found all fees to be in order with what

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 2

they owed the Village. Village Manager Healy explained that a lot of the rules
and regulations that deal with Cable Franchise Agreements are regulated by
New York State through the New York State Public Service Commission and
this is something that communities are required to undertake every ten years.
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that there has been
drastic reductions in the number of people participating, and asked what taxes
apply to the internet portion and what are their responsibilities for the wiring
and polls in the Village.
There being no further comments to come before the Board, a motion to close
the public hearing was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by
Trustee Nachtaler and approved with a 3-0 vote.
Village Manager indicated that there has been a decline in the number of
subscribers over the past ten years and we have accounted for that in our
budgets. Village Manager Healy emphasized that there are no franchise
requirements for internet and telephone services and this agreement only
covers cable television. Village Manager Healy addressed the question about
poles, and stated that the agreement does not cover poles, but the Village has
a separate law that deals with double poles, so when a utility replaces a pole
they have a set timeframe under Village law where they must remove the old
pole.
Trustee Nachtaler reminded residents that New York State requires the cable
company to reimburse subscribers if there is an outage that is four or more
hours.
Village Manager Healy stated that it is not an automatic credit, the subscriber
has to request it.
Trustee Simon thanked Village Manager Healy on the multi-year effort to renew
this agreement and commended the firm who worked with the Village
Manager.
Mayor Pugh stated that the Village continues to advocate to get FIOS services
in Croton.
Resolution #4-2026
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON TO RENEW A
CABLE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT WITH CABLEVISION OF WAPPINGERS FALLS, INC.

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 3

TO OPERATE A CABLE SYSTEM IN THE VILLAGE OF CROTON-ON-HUDSON was made
by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee Nachtaler and approved with a
3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Village of Croton-on-Hudson (the “Village”) is a “franchising authority”
in accordance with Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, (the “Communications
Act”), and is authorized to grant one or more nonexclusive cable television franchises
pursuant to Article 11 of the New York Public Service Law, as amended, and Title 16,
Chapter VIII, Parts 890.60 through 899, of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules
and Regulations of the State of New York, as amended (collectively the “Cable Laws”),
and
WHEREAS the Village executed a franchise agreement with Cablevision of Wappingers
Falls, Inc. (the “Franchisee”) on September 14, 2015, which was thereafter confirmed
and made effective by the New York State Public Service Commission (“Commission”)
on December 3, 2015, for a term of ten (10) years (Case No. 15-V-0558), and
WHEREAS said franchise agreement expired on December 3, 2025; and
WHEREAS Franchisee has submitted a proposed franchise renewal agreement (the
“Franchise Renewal Agreement”) to continue operating its system within the Village,
and
WHEREAS the Village and Franchisee have mutually agreed to the terms of said
Franchise Renewal Agreement, and
WHEREAS the Village has determined that the Franchisee is and has been in
substantial compliance with all terms/provisions of its existing franchises and
applicable law, and
WHEREAS the Village has determined that Franchisee has the requisite legal,
technical and financial capabilities to operate a Cable Systems within the Village and
that Franchisee’s proposals for renewal of the franchises meet the cable related needs
of the Community, and
WHEREAS a duly noticed Public Hearing, affording an opportunity for all those
interested parties within the Village to be heard on the proposed Franchise Renewal
Agreement was held before the Village on January 21, 2026,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees determines
that it is in the best interest of the public to award the Franchise Renewal Agreement
to the Franchisee, and

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 4

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby authorizes the
Village Manager to enter into the Franchise Renewal Agreement with Cablevision of
Wappingers Falls, Inc., and to execute any other documents necessary to effectuate
the granting of the franchise renewal on behalf of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson.
5. RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS SUBMITTED BY EMAIL - None
6. PUBLIC COMMENTS ON AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, thanked Ms. Wagner for her
professionalism as Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals, she always conducted
the meetings in an organized and inquisitive manner. Mr. Riely stated that he
supports the proposal by our American Legion Post to have a plaque
recognizing John “Rifle Jack” Peterson being placed on the piece of property
opposite the Veterans Memorial.
7. REPORT FROM THE VILLAGE MANAGER:
Village Manager Healy went over the following rules and regulations with
respect to snow events in the Village:
Village snow regulations are implemented with snowfall of 2 inches or
more. The Village will declare an official end time to each storm, which will be
posted
on
the Village
website
and
social
media. Please
follow
our Facebook, X and Instagram pages for any snow updates. Residents are
also encouraged to subscribe to the "Snow Alerts" email list to receive
notification of storm end times.
In order to facilitate keeping our streets clear of snow and ice, no parking is
allowed on any village street when there is 2 or more inches of snow. See
Section 215-29-B - Seasonal Parking
Upon an accumulation of two or more inches of snow, no vehicle of any kind
shall be allowed to remain standing on any street or public highway until the
snow has ended and the road has been cleared of snow. Vehicles must be
relocated to off-street locations and may be parked on the Village right-of-way
area directly in front of the vehicle owner’s residence, except that vehicles may
not be parked on any part of a street, sidewalk, or curb. All vehicles in violation
of this subsection are subject to towing. Residents may park vehicles in the
Municipal Building parking lot, Asbury Methodist parking lot, Merwin Oak
parking lot, and South Harmon parking lot but must be moved within 12 hours
after snow has ended.

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 5

Residents with limited access to off-street parking can apply for a seasonal
parking permit. See Section 215-29-C - Seasonal Parking:
Special hardship permits. In cases where there is no off-street location or rightof-way area which can be used, the Village Manager shall, upon written
application on forms to be supplied by him and verification of the applicants
special hardship, issue an annual permit granting permission to park motor
vehicles on the street or public highway except for certain streets designated
by the Village Manager, upon recommendation of the Superintendent of the
Department of Public Works, provided that such parking conforms to all other
laws and regulations. No permit parking shall be permitted on those streets
designated by the Village Manager. Hardship permit holders shall move their
vehicles no later than 12 hours after the snow stops.
Streets not to be parked on even with a Seasonal Parking Permit during a snow
event:
•

North side of Grand Street between Old Post Road North and Riverside Avenue

•

Both sides of Croton Point Avenue

•

Both sides of Benedict Blvd.

•

Both sides of Maple Street

•

East side of Riverside Avenue between Brook St. and High St.

•

West side (High School side) of Old Post Road South between Maple St. and
Cleveland Dr.
Please also remember that it is the responsibility of the homeowner to clear
the sidewalk in front of their home. The Village thanks you in advance for
clearing your sidewalk of snow and ice — doing so creates a safer environment
for our pedestrians and especially children who walk to school. See
Section 197-15-C - Snow and Ice on Sidewalks; Time Limits:
Snow and ice shall be removed from sidewalks within 12 hours after the end
of a snowfall. In addition, sidewalks adjoining commercial establishments and
commercial parking lots shall be kept free of snow and ice at all times between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
When clearing sidewalks and driveways, do not shovel or blow the snow back
on Village streets. See Section 197-15-F

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 6

No person, firm or corporation shall deposit, throw, place or strew, nor shall
any person, firm or corporation cause to be deposited, thrown, placed or
strewn, any snow or ice upon any street, avenue or roadway within the Village.
Mayor Pugh requested that, in recognition of the unexpected intensity of the
snow event this past Saturday that took some residents by surprise, the Village
waive, one-time only, the snow parking summonses that were issued. Mayor
Pugh emphasized that the Village will do their best to remind everyone of their
responsibilities to remove cars off our roadways but this is a long-standing law
and residents need to be diligent.
Resolution:
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nachtaler the Board
approved waiving the snow parking summonses issued last Saturday. Motion
was approved with a 3-0 vote.
8. CONSENT AGENDA:
On Motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nachtaler, the Board
approved the Consent Agenda with a 3-0 Vote.
Trustee Nachtaler thanked the American Legion, Marc Cheshire and the
Recreation Advisory Committee for their thoughtful recommendations
regarding the proposed monument for Revolutionary War veteran John "Rifle
Jack" Peterson. Trustee Nachtaler stated that she is not sure who is driving the
coordination of this project and suggested that we put in some deadlines if we
want to see this done in the spring.
Village Manager Healy stated that the Board is going to need to have a
discussion at one of our upcoming work sessions to see what direction we
should be taking. Village Manager Healy advised that a historical sign has been
donated by the Pomeroy Foundation that will be placed at Cleveland Drive on
the side of the cemetery honoring two soldiers that are buried in Bethel
cemetery, once it has arrived, the Village is planning to hold a ceremony when
we are ready to install the sign.
a. CORRESPONDENCE TO THE BOARD:
1. Emails from the Recreation Advisory Committee and Village Historian
Marc Cheshire regarding the proposed monument for Revolutionary War

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 7

veteran John "Rifle Jack" Peterson as well as Pierre Van Cortlandt and
Philip Van Cortlandt.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202509/93724e4e9699fc6cd5cc0c47af480a90245482fe.pdf
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202601/539ef8d237f7ad6afcc7643fef16a0eceaf01847.pdf
2. Letter from the New York Conference of Mayors regarding AIM Funding
in the State Budget.
https://play.champds.com/ATT/crotononhudsonny/202601/3f2aefee7391da472f11e27e1f0d6d30f9f3b647.pdf
b.

RESOLUTIONS:

Resolution #5-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS New York State enacted legislation in 2012 that established a “property
tax cap” on the amount that a local government’s property tax levy can increase each
year, and
WHEREAS under this law, the total amount to be raised through property taxes
charged on the municipality’s taxable assessed value of property, is capped at 2% or
the rate of inflation, whichever is less, with some exceptions, and
WHEREAS the rate of inflation this year has been set by the State Comptroller’s Office
at 2.63% for municipalities operating on a June through May fiscal year, and
WHEREAS the state legislation provides for local governments to override the cap to
protect the Village from unforeseen financial circumstances, and
WHEREAS the state legislation requires that in the event an override is necessary,
the law enabling it must already have been adopted by the Board of Trustees, and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 1 of 2026 has been drafted to override the
“property tax cap” law enacted by State Legislature, if necessary, and

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 8

WHEREAS no decision has been made at this point to override the “property tax cap”
for the upcoming fiscal year,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls for
a Public Hearing on February 4, 2026, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 1 of 2026 to override the “property tax cap” law enacted by State
Legislature.
Resolution #6-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS New York State Village Law provides for the Village Board of Trustees to
audit all claims presented to the Village for payment, and
WHEREAS Section 5-524 of the Village Law authorizes the Village to establish the
office of auditor, which would undertake these duties of the Village Board of Trustees,
and
WHEREAS Local Law Introductory No. 2 of 2026 has been drafted to create the office
of Village Auditor; and
WHEREAS, the local law was reviewed and discussed at a work session held on
January 14, 2026,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board of Trustees hereby calls for
a Public Hearing on February 4, 2026, at 7:00 PM in the Georgianna Grant Meeting
Room of the Stanley H. Kellerhouse Municipal Building to consider Local Law
Introductory No. 2 of 2026 to create chapter 9, Auditor, Village, of the Village Code
to establish the office of Village Auditor.
Resolution #7-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the collective bargaining agreement with the Croton Police Association
establishes a set amount to be paid to members for the cost of police uniforms, and

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 9

WHEREAS the 2025-2026 General Fund Budget does not have sufficient funding
available to pay this contractually required amount,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $6,600 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account: A3120.4260 – Police Department–Uniforms.
Resolution #8-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Recreation Advisory Committee has recommended that the Village
purchase an automatic external defibrillator (AED) to be installed at Black Rock Park,
and
WHEREAS the Village Board discussed this request at a work session held on January
14, 2026, and is supportive of the request and
WHEREAS, the 2025-2026 General Fund Budget does not have sufficient funding
available for this purchase,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the
Village Treasurer to transfer $4,410 from Contingency Account A1990.4000 to the
following account: A7110.2000 – Parks-Equipment.
Resolution #9-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 3-0 vote.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: that the Village Board of Trustees hereby
undertakes the following actions:
1. Authorizing the Deputy Mayor to sign the New York Conference of Mayors
AIM Letter.
2. Filing for the record the recommendations from the Recreation Advisory
Committee and Village Historian Marc Cheshire regarding the John “Rifle
Jack” Peterson memorial.

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 10

c. Approval of Minutes:
Motion to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting held on January 7,
2026, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nachtaler and approved with a 3-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Work Session held on January 14,
2026, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by Trustee
Nachtaler and approved with a 3-0 vote.
Motion to approve the minutes of the Executive Session held on January
14, 2026, was made by Trustee Simon. The motion was seconded by
Trustee Nachtaler and approved with a 3-0 vote.
9. PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS:
Resolution #10-2026
On motion of TRUSTEE SIMON, seconded by TRUSTEE NACHTALER, the following
resolution was adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Croton-on-Hudson,
New York with a 3-0 vote.
WHEREAS the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department makes use of a computer-aided
dispatch (CAD) system to document all calls for service that are received, and
WHEREAS the department wishes to upgrade to a newer system that has enhanced
functionally, including the ability to share information with neighboring departments,
and
WHEREAS the Croton-on-Hudson Police Department, Town of Yorktown Police
Department and the Village of Briarcliff Manor Police Department are investigating
the use of a Motorola CAD system, which is currently used by six other departments
in Westchester and Putnam counties, and
WHEREAS the three communities desire to apply for a grant through the New York
State Local Government Efficiency Grant Program, and
WHEREAS, a memorandum of understanding (MOU) has been developed to establish
the relationship between the three communities in regards to this grant application;
and
WHEREAS the signing of the MOU does not commit the village to spend any funds,

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 11

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Village Board hereby authorizes the Chief
of Police to execute the memorandum of understanding with the Yorktown and
Briarcliff Manor Police Departments related to the local government efficiency grant
program.
10.PUBLIC COMMENT – NON-AGENDA ITEMS:
Ed Riely, 110 Truesdale Drive, Croton on Hudson, stated that the New York
State budget has a lot of corruption and needs a DOGE review, a March for Life
bus will be leaving from Briarcliff Manor this Friday to Washington, D.C. , and
talked about an ongoing boycott of CVS with regards to abortion drugs.
11.REPORTS:
Trustee Nachtaler thanked Christine Wagner for her incredible service as Chair
of the Zoning Board of Appeals, congratulated Jim Tuman on his appointment
as Chair, and welcomed new member Ethan Lewis. Trustee Nachtaler also
thanked our DPW crew for all their work during the last two snow events.
Trustee Simon thanked Christine Wagner for her service, thanked the DPW
staff for keeping our streets safe, on January 15th he attended a zoom meeting
with Congressman Lawler, on January 8th he and Trustee Nachtaler attended
the monthly Westchester Municipal Officials meeting where Brian Coffin,
Legislative Director of the New York Conference of Mayors gave an update on
what is happening in the State Legislature, on January 15th the Bicycle and
Pedestrian Committee met and talked about the expansion of the Project Mover
program, and possible locations for red light cameras, on January 18th the
Sustainability Committee met and talked about EV chargers at the train
station, reported on the renewal diesel program, and the train station solar
canopy, on January 28th he participated in a call with County Executive Ken
Jenkins and his team where they talked about County initiatives, on January
17th, Fire Inspector Jim Ferguson gave a wonderful presentation to our
Seniors, this Friday By the Dam Books will be holding a reading of Winnie-thePooh books in recognition of its one-hundredth anniversary, and announced
the passing of Jeanette Gingold on January 10th.
On motion by Trustee Simon and seconded by Trustee Nachtaler the
Board approved the following appointments with a 3-0 vote.
Shiloh Shea
Dana Nicholson
Seyed Hosseini

Conservation Advisory Council
Bicycle Pedestrian Committee
Alternate Member, Planning Board

Term Ending 12/26
Term Ending 12/28
Term Ending 12/26

Village Board of Trustees
January 21, 2026
Page 12

Adriana Zavala

IDEA Committee

Term Ending 12/26

There being no further business to come before the Board, a motion to close
the meeting was made by Trustee Simon. Motion was seconded by Trustee
Nachtaler and approved with a 3-0. Meeting adjourned at 8:03pm.
Respectively submitted,
Judy Weintraub, Board Secretary
__________________________
Paula DiSanto, Village Clerk

