MINUTES – Croton Sust. Comm. (SC) – 10:00 AM Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026 – via zoom
Members Attending:
Edwin Adkins
Lindsay Audin (chair, CSC Coord.)

Absent:

Ashley Clemente
Dan Columbini PE
David Goldman
Jon Katz PE
Niall Kelleher (community gardens)
Brian Pugh (Croton Mayor)
Carly Shanks
Len Simon (Village Trustee)
Cheryl Wong (food scrap program)
[Bracketed] text is subsequent actions/clarifications. Underlining shows a commitment.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Attending guest(s): Archipelago Films videoed some of the meeting for inclusion in a short
documentary, discussed below under “Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR”.
Corey Cummings, a new Croton resident interested in our committee, also participated.
Announcements: We were sorry to learn that Keiko Niccolini’s teen-aged daughter passed
away last Sunday night (2/15/26) after a long illness. While not a committee member,
Keiko was instrumental in making our food scrap recycling program a success.
On 1/28/26, the daily wholesale power
supply price in our area hit nearly
$900/MWh (i.e., ~$.90/kWh). During the
same period last year, it peaked at
~$320/MWh, causing high electric bills. If
CCA’s fixed supply pricing was still
available, it would have “insulated” against
such price spikes. Our local natural gas
wholesale supply price averaged over
$2.25/therm in January, about double the price during last year’s cold snap. On 1/27/26, it
briefly exceeded $14/therm. Con Ed has the ability to spread the cost over several billing
periods, but is not required do so. Levelized billing (of either type of energy) could limit
the near-term impact but will spread the same total cost across bills for the next year.
- EV/EVSE/RD
EV charger project at the train station: Filings continue with Con Ed toward installing
the necessary new transformer and electric service to power the 18 charge ports.
Completion of the installation is expected during the coming summer.
Renewable Diesel (RD): All 18 Village diesel vehicles now use RD. A widely seen press
release (attached at the end of these minutes) was posted on 1/23/26 and featured in
both municipal newsletters.
1

E-bikes: Len updated us on the program. While presently in winter “hibernation”, the
successful program will be back in spring with additional bike stations. Among the six
participating communities, Croton took the lead in per-capita uses of the bikes.
- Solar Projects/Issues
Train station canopies: Third-party commissioning is underway. It should be finished by
our March meeting, with full operation of the system thereafter.
DPW solar canopy: Rivertown Solar’s bid (already accepted by the Village Board) stalled
again earlier this month due to continued inability to provide required paperwork. Once
back on track, the next step would be signing the contract for the ~$300K project, fully
paid by a grant. The goal is to complete installation by Labor Day.
- Heat Pumps / Electrification
A proposed $1B Sustainable Future Program would offer new State funding to help lowand moderate-income households (but not municipalities) prepare for electrification and
add new support for weatherization and energy efficiency programs. Find details at:
https://www.nysenate.gov/sites/default/files/admin/structure/media/manage/filefile/a/202601/new-yorkers-for-clean-power.pdf Mayor Pugh clarified that it is not yet a matter before
the State Legislature, nor does it appear in the State budget, despite strong support from
the environmental community.
- Other Programs
Food Scrap Recycling: The two new toters (large green collection bins) were delivered
to the site 2/19/26. Cheryl has prepped the announcements to notify the community of the
program’s opening to all interested Croton residents. The announcements will appear in
Village newsletters and local media and in an eblast to present participants. We thank to
Frank Balbi and the DPW for handling the purchase and delivery of the toters. Cheryl
emailed that she is also now prepping a proposal to expand her textile recycling effort that
was successful at last year’s Earth Day event. She will review it at our March meeting.
Dave asked if we could count any GHG reduction from recycling food scraps. But since
food scraps would otherwise go to the Charles Pt. Waste-To-Energy (WTE) incineration
facility (not to a landfill where they could instead produce methane), Lindsay said it’s hard
to support such a claim.
- Funding and Budgeting Issues
BESS 2.0: Development of that Municipal Place project is back on track. On 1/27/26,
Luminace provided a modified proposal accepting our requested change to an easement
to access the site. Prior confusion on that company’s desire to acquire (not develop)
BESS projects was clarified as instead acquiring other BESS development firms, not just
their developed projects, while expanding Luminace’s own development staff.

2

Len and Brian reported on a discussion to relocate our salt shed to the County’s Croton
Point Park salt storage site. Doing so would free up the present shed site to be used to
store the seasonal yard waste presently held at the DPW’s Municipal Place site. That
would free up space to maximize potential BESS MW (and rent). While feasible, Len said
such action isn’t likely until later this year. The salt shed site in not near a power line
having the capacity needed for a BESS. Brian pointed out that moving our salt storage
would also clear up an issue regarding water contamination at the present site.
To “lock up” 5 MW of hosting capacity elsewhere while those discussions continue,
Lindsay is outlining a Letter of Intent to that end. Before our March meeting, he will set up
a zoom with Village officials to nail down its terms. To address other issues to expedite
BESS development, Len suggested pursuit of a mini-RFP and other mechanisms needed
to comply with State regulations regarding municipal public works projects.
Regarding other local BESS issues, we briefly discussed how a patchwork of projects and
barriers is becoming apparent. A 5 MW project is being developed in Tarrytown by
Catalyze, a competitor to Luminace, in the parking lot of a professional services building,
supported by local municipal officials. But in the Village of Ossining (not the Town) a
hearing on 2/18/26 was held on a possible 8-month moratorium that would include
residential BESS. The Town of Ossining, however, has a BESS law and a 5 MW system
was installed in 2024. Another large system is being developed in the Town.
- Recruitment/Outreach/Communications/PR
Len reported on “The Little Town That Could”, a 15-20 minute documentary film
spearheaded by Croton100, about Croton’s sustainability efforts. Archipelago Films, an
award-winning production firm based in Pleasantville, finished a first draft of the film
earlier this month. Len has the starring role as he points out local sustainability efforts
while riding his e-bike. Earlier this month, Lindsay was interviewed for some voiceovers.
The film expects to be ready for showing during the coming April Climate Week in New
York City and at the County Center on May 9 (a Saturday). The film was bankrolled via
State and County government grants.
CAC’s next Repair Café is set for this Saturday, Feb. 28, 11 AM at the Croton Library.
Dave agreed to take a few pictures for future use to support our CSC status.
- New Business / Other Issues
“Balcony solar” systems are getting attention, both nationally (2/11/26 NY Times) and
locally (proposed NY State law). They differ from presently-available portable “solar
generators” that send power from panels into a housing containing a battery, inverter
(converting output to 120v AC), and several 120v outlets to feed light electric loads. A
balcony solar system has similar equipment but instead has a cord and plug that fits into
a wall electric outlet to inject AC power into a home’s electric breaker panel. They are
being offered by Craftstrom, Gizmopower, and EcoFlow (among other online firms).
Allowed in Germany, balcony systems are now also OK in Utah, pending compliance with
electrical standards and local building codes. The Utah and NYS laws limit solar output to
1.2 kW (about a 5’ x 9’ array). Dan raised several electrical and fire code issues that
3

would need resolution before such devices could be acceptable. We also discussed at
what point the issue would be “ripe” enough to discuss publicly. To that end, Lindsay
agreed to draft a list of questions about the devices and Corey Cummings agreed to
research and deliver a short report answering them at our March meeting.
Jon updated us on his ongoing experience with the Grid Rewards demand response
program. Despite his early efforts to minimize his electric usage when asked, he received
$0 for his effort, due to his use of solar panels. However, upon doing nothing to limit his
demand last summer, he instead got $50 in credits. Dave pointed out that he got ~$33 in
credits despite the fact that he dropped out of the program last year. Jon felt that the
crediting system was quite flawed and expressed disappointment with the program.
Our next zoom meeting was set for Sunday, Mar. 22, 2026 at 10:00 AM.

4

Village Switches to Renewable Diesel
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has
transitioned its municipal fleet to renewable
diesel following a successful pilot program.
This shift reduces the Village’s carbon
footprint by 12.5%, cutting 186 metric tons of
CO2 annually without taxpayer cost.
Sustainability Committee Chair Lindsay Audin
developed the initiative, which will be Village's
largest single measure to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions to date. Superintendent of
Public Works Frank Balbi managed the
technical implementation, ensuring the fuel
functioned as a seamless "drop-in"
replacement.
All of the Village’s diesel-powered heavy-duty vehicles (e.g., garbage trucks and snow
plows) now run on Renewable Diesel (RD). Unlike traditional biodiesel, RD is a distinct fuel
made from fats and oils (such as soybean or canola oil). These byproducts are processed
to be chemically identical to petroleum diesel. The cost of the RD will be paid for out of the
Village’s dedicated sustainability fund, which is capitalized by the revenue of the community
solar array on top of the DPW building.

5

