October 2025
Croton-on-Hudson Bicycle-Pedestrian Committee
October 2025 Meeting Minutes
Date: October 30, 2025– 7:30-9:00pm

Attendees: Matt Arnold (Chair); Len Simon (ex-offico); Kevin Scott; Barry Scheer;
Daniel Castner; Nora Regis
● Approved minutes from September meeting

● DPW Updates
● Sidewalk continuation projects at 61 Elmore and 40 Darby to be
complete by EOY
● Additional scope/backlog to be evaluated in early 2026 based on
available budget/funds

● Share the Road signage
● BPC recommendations to Village Manager on points of location
along Maple Ave (NY State road)
● Attendee recommendations:
● NE direction - between DD and Croton Mini Deli/Great
Wall
● NE + SW direction – on block near Dobbs Park
● SW direction – in vicinity of Maple Commons (e.g.,
somewhere between Wells and the Project Mover
location)
● Action:
● Compare to map list compiled by Riley
● Share recommendations w/ Village Manager

● AAA Recognition
● https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/home/news/village-crotonhudson-recognized-aaa-northeast

● Project MOVER stats
● [Awaiting data from Len]
● Awaiting quarterly report detailing Q3 operations (preliminary
Sept data just in)
● July, Aug, Sept - 833 rides initiated in Croton
● Green-lit for expansion
● Senasqua will be a key target location
● Presence somewhere on North Riverside
● Prime location may be at bottom on foot bridge ramp
(by cross-walk) on West side
● Possibility of Croton Point Park [County park]
● Winter close-down
● Target date - pending weather, sometime in December
● Service returning in April 2026

● Slow Down Croton
● Campaign relaunch
● Signs printed – 100
● Being distributed via the CPD
● Village communications to be released November 1st
● Village email and social media
UPDATE:
https://www.crotononhudson-ny.gov/home/news/re-launch-slow-down-crotoncampaign

Re-Launch of Slow Down Croton Campaign
Free Lawn Signs Available for Residents at the Police Department
POSTED ON: NOVEMBER 1, 2025 - 4:00PM
The Village of Croton-on-Hudson has announced the re-launch of the “Slow
Down Croton” safety campaign this fall. New lawn signs, available free to

residents, will encourage drivers, bicyclists and pedestrians to observe the rules
of the road. This re-launch comes four years after the second version of the
“Slow Down Croton” campaign and nine years after the original campaign.
The signs, designed by Croton-on-Hudson resident and graphic designer Tom
Smith, once again feature the “Slow Down Croton” slogan with an image of a
snail drawn by illustrator Tim Robinson, also a Croton-on-Hudson resident.
Lawn signs can be obtained by residents on a first-come, first-serve basis at the
Croton-on-Hudson Police Department, 1 Van Wyck Street.
The initiative for the campaign started 15 years ago after Smith and his daughter
were almost hit by a speeding driver on Mount Airy Road. “Slow Down Croton” tshirts and bumper stickers were distributed around the community. In 2016, the
Village of Croton-on-Hudson created the initial allotment of lawn signs and, in
partnership with the Croton-Harmon School District, staged various events to
publicize the message.
“The ‘Slow Down Croton’ campaign is a perfect example of what makes our
Village special: a grassroots concept that we, as a community, embrace and
support,” said Mayor Brian Pugh. “This latest installment shows our continued
commitment to making our streets safer for everyone, whether you are driving,
walking or biking. I am asking all our residents to take one simple step – slow
down – and help protect our neighbors.”
In recent years, Croton-on-Hudson has shown its commitment to calming traffic
by instituting a 25 MPH village-wide speed limit, establishing a 20 MPH school
speed zone on Maple Street near Pierre Van Cortlandt Middle School, and
erecting a number of flashing beacons at key crosswalks, which are pedestrianoperated signals that alert drivers to slow down and stop to allow walkers to
cross. In recognition of these efforts, the Village of Croton-on-Hudson received a
Gold Award in the 2025 AAA Northeast Community Traffic Safety Award
Program.

